on behalf of the renew group. madam president, congratulations on your election. on behalf of the whole renew group, which i represent, i would first like to thank you for your speech, setting out your priorities. we also have political priorities behind the support of our group, which we have set out with a number of political groups here in this house. we want a strong parliament, rights to be respected, and i hope that one of the first decisions you will take is to support the simone veil pact, the simone veil you mentioned and the many women in your speech who preceded you and who carried a number of political rights which today also form the dna of the european union. we want to support this by two effective years, two years at the service of the europeans, two years in which europe will build a european model on many subjects. the digital world - we've talked about it - the environment, security issues... you will have the renew group working with you in the framework of this institution, thanks of course to the trust you will also be able to place in the political groups and the work you will be able to do with them. i also thank my colleagues who, in the context of this mid-term agreement, have also been able to put public policies, what we call policies in english, behind the names and the organisation of this parliament. thank you and we will of course be supportive during this period, hoping that this house will be effective during the last two years of our mandate.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, congratulations again on your election. mr president of the republic, commissioners, i would like to say to the epp, as an introduction, that you have been in charge for five years and if more action and less talk is needed now, i am glad that you are back in that position and we are all in agreement here. but in the last two years in europe, thanks to europe, things have still moved forward. thanks to europe, we are the most vaccinated continent in the world. thanks to europe, mr president, we have brought about a historic european recovery plan which has saved millions of europeans from unemployment and precariousness. thanks to europe, we are the green continent and will be carbon neutral by 2050. the european green deal will also combine ecology and employment. we owe it to the initiative of this european parliament, mr president, we also owe it to the determination of the institutions, but also to your action and that of the council. so, of course, everything is not perfect. there are delays, there are slowdowns, there are imperfections. of course, there will always be controversy. and we know that europe will remain the easy scapegoat for those who refuse to take responsibility. of course, the work is not finished. and with the presidency of the council that you are opening, we must speed up. i think the whole of this parliament agrees with that. it is indeed urgent. urgency to take back control of our destiny and assume european sovereignty in the face of foreign powers. we said it was an emergency for the planet. urgency to uphold the rule of law, now under threat in europe. urgency for our youth who await from us a new breath and a new path. mr president, you are the one who is giving the order. our group will be there, we will be with you to impose our rules and values on the digital giants through the dma and the dsa, we will be with you to go even further for the planet and introduce a carbon tax at the borders of europe. we will also be there for a stronger european defence, as you said, for fairer trade, for minimum wages in europe, for newly thought-out budgetary rules, for better-respected borders, for a renewed right to asylum. mr president, with this ambition my group would like to propose two initiatives for europeans. firstly, on equality between women and men. we want this french presidency to be an opportunity to launch the simone veil pact, which will call on all signatory countries to adopt progressive laws on equality, sexual and reproductive rights, and the fight against sexual and gender-based violence. but we also invite you to dare with us to create a europe of the young. we've asked so much of our young people in the last few months, so let's live up to these events and the public policies we'll be carrying out. we call for the creation of a platform to help young europeans to start up, get involved, find a job, a traineeship, a training... it's not gonna be that easy, we both know that. there are still differences in this house, even within our political groups. but we at renew europe are committed to this will to reach consensus which makes the union. and recently, as you know, the german, dutch and italian governments - in which my political family is also involved - are ready to go further. the majority of this parliament has just reached an ambitious agreement on its priorities, an agenda until 2024. we are ready, ladies and gentlemen, and i think the planets are quite aligned with this french presidency. the will is there. the course is clear. let the liars and the cynics cry out. they're clinging to the status quo. my group wants to fight for the future and to speed up the european agenda. so, law by law, bill by bill, reform by reform, we'll be back to square one. we will fight for a green, free, proud and fully sovereign europe. the french presidency is a key moment. we have everything we need to succeed. with perhaps one single word of command, and you've mentioned it a little bit: boldness, still boldness, always boldness.
madam president, this is a point of order on the same subject as mrs garcía pérez. what a shame to turn this chamber into a national assembly! it is not respectful of who the members are here, of our work, of the debate. the political groups are totally open and free to organise their speaking time and the content of the debate as they wish, but i would like us to respect both this debate and the speaking time and our speakers, all groups combined.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, mr president of the republic, your europe is 60 years old, ours is 3,000 years old. your political project is to wipe out the nations of europe, ours is to save them. you said that we had to deconstruct french history. so it is understandable that you are so excited to be at the head of an institution whose aim is to dismantle the millennium-old europe. you and your allies have made europe washington's backyard, beijing's prey, erdogan's mattress and africa's hotel. producing batteries and semiconductors on european soil is commendable, but the 21st century requires us to take a longer view. in a recent interview, in which you are happy to annoy a part of the french people, you advocated the establishment of a europe of migration. earlier, at a press conference, you announced that you wanted to advance the european pact on migration. this pact is a real legal coup d'état, since under the guise of harmonizing the rules, the european union is going to deprive nations of the right to define their own migration policy. you will blur the notion of refugees and migrants, introduce family reunification extended to brothers and sisters, force countries to relocate forcibly, restrict the possibilities of deportation at borders, encourage ngos in their role as accomplices of smugglers. in short, you want to deprive the states and peoples of the last remaining right to decide who enters and who leaves their countries, when your priority should be to re-establish borders in france and to establish borders in europe. you want to deprive the peoples, our people, of their right to exist and to remain. will europe still be europe tomorrow if, as in cologne, the days are punctuated by the call of the muezzin? will europe still be europe if, as in belgian or dutch towns, a majority of the inhabitants pledge allegiance to the king of morocco or to sultan erdogan? and what if, like so many french districts, another civilization takes over and with it a relationship to women that is foreign to us? europe can survive deficits above 3% of gdp, but it would not recover from a prolonged birth deficit offset by external migration. the nations of europe do not want to be dissolved, replaced or submerged. the presidential elections of 10 and 24 april will not only decide the fate of france, but that of the whole of europe. mr president of the republic, how can you claim to be the unifier of europe today, when you have been the one who divided france to the end, preferring generalized competition and therefore the war of all against all to the unity of the country? you behaved like a liquidator at the head of the french state. you will have carefully played the casino with french industry, sold to foreign powers and of which alstom will forever remain a symbol of betrayal of national interests. you will have let the state be challenged in its authority, the nation weakened in its sovereignty, the people attacked in their identity and their freedoms. what will be left of your promises of a new world is your bullying, your humiliation, your cynicism and your contempt, which have contributed to making the people sad, to weakening their life force, to making them doubt the future, to making them doubt themselves. when france needs to shine again to express its power, you have extinguished its light. it is vital for france, but also for europe, that your mandate remains one.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, mr president, you present yourselves today as the champion of europe who protects, but who are you really protecting? are you protecting social rights when you pick pockets of the unemployed and delay the directive on uberised workers? are you protecting sovereignty when you take turns signing free trade agreements? are you protecting women when you support an anti-ivg woman in the european parliament? you see, mr president of the republic, it is not enough to inscribe the right to abortion in the charter of fundamental rights. we must still defend it and accept its extension when it is discussed in france. or to make no pact with states like poland that destroy this fundamental right to dispose of our bodies. are you protecting the planet, when you went to the far right of orbán to defend gas and nuclear? you see, it is not enough to include the environment in the charter of fundamental rights, when you are convicted for climate action in france or when you bury the proposals of the citizens' convention for the climate. are you protecting tax justice when you serve soup to the tax evasion medef? are you finally protecting the rule of law and democracy, about which you spoke a lot this morning, when you make a deal with orbán - hungary was the place of your first visit as president of the republic in charge of this presidency of the european union - and when you mutilate the yellow vests? you see, mr president of the republic, what you are protecting is certainly not the people in the galley, but the multinationals and the billionaires. so you announce with great fanfare, as we saw at the presentation of the french presidency, a slogan: 'relance, power, belonging'. but in reality, your european record is nothing but arrogance, impotence and cunning. in substance, you are the champion of compromise and double talk, but in form, you have always been the president of contempt. disregard for social security, which, according to you, costs a "crazy pig". contempt for the uncertain who are nothing. contempt for the unemployed who have to cross the street to find work. contempt for the lazy, the illiterate, the unruly gauls. and it is a contempt which is still expressed today towards your european partners, towards us, meps, when you choose to maintain the french presidency of the european union in the midst of the election campaign. yes, mr. president, you are the president of contempt, but at least you're assuming it. and as you summed up, the people, you're pissing them off. the press has worked very hard to translate for you. she did well, because this insult can be addressed in all the languages of the peoples of europe. equality between women and men: ¡vete al cuerno! social justice: fuck you! the weather: facciamolo is going to get mad! our basic rights: but let's face it, there are people you don't hurt. for example, your billionaire friends whose fortunes doubled during your five-year term. that is the essence of your policy, mr president: to the workers, the precarious, the activists, insults and blows; to the profiteers and polluters, gifts and sweet words. ladies and gentlemen, do not be fooled: you are looking at dr emmanuel, who has made a lot of promises today, i must admit, but you also have a mr macron, who is in fact the one who is breaking our social rights, repressing the demonstrations and has nothing to do with the climate emergency. so how can we believe that you will do in europe the opposite of what you did in france? the french presidency should not be an electoral platform. this is a historic opportunity to turn the tables. first, by a fundamental act: putting health before profit by lifting the patents for covid vaccines - a lifting you, mr president, have consistently opposed. so the charity you still speak of today makes no sense when millions of people around the world do not have access to vaccines because our country, france, but also the european commission, did not respect the vote of this european parliament to defend the lifting of patents on vaccines! secondly, mr president, by a priority: to prevent the re-emergence of the fiscal austerity that was suppressed during the crisis. in your distant world, they may be just accounting lines, but in our real world, they're people, social services for food, utilities for learning or for healing. the french people said it in 2005 in the referendum: we don't want these rules anymore. because let us be clear, if we want to renationalize freight tomorrow, ban pesticides, develop organic or local canteens, sanction european tax havens, we will have to face up to the european rules that prevent us from doing so, and i conclude on this. france is a founding country, the second largest economy in the european union. it has the means and the duty to enforce the principle of non-regression in social and ecological terms so that a european standard will never again diminish our rights or slow down the fight against climate change. quoting general de gaulle is fashionable in these campaigning times. so, to use his words, it is to have a certain idea of france to dare or even to have the audacity of which you speak, mr president of the republic. dare to lead the way, dare to embody resistance to austeritarian and authoritarian dogma. history will judge the missed opportunity of your french presidency of the european union, sacrificed on the altar of your personal ambition. but after the presidential election, he'll have two months to live up to the emergency and turn the tables. by the will of the people, after you in april, we will assume our responsibilities, mr president of the republic.
madam president, mr president of the republic, you have just started this presidency with great promises, but the truth is that nobody here really believes in them. not only because the timetable you have endorsed will serve your presidential campaign better than european action, but above all because you have contradicted yourselves so much. you've been playing around so much, hijacking the meaning of the most important words. you've, i'm sorry to say, lied a lot. how can i believe you? you say you want to control europe's borders, but yesterday you denounced as nationalist leprosy those countries which called for help to protect their borders in the face of the migration crisis. you talk about the environment and strategic autonomy, but france is now importing gas and coal because you closed fessenheim and mined our industry. today you speak of european membership, but you say that europe's roots are irrelevant. but where can we find the sap to irrigate our future? you promised to end the divisions and you will leave france, as well as europe, fractured as never before. here, too, we know that your "at the same time" is just a rhetorical device to hide calculated inconsistencies. as pierre manent writes, the contradiction between europe's ambitions or pretensions and its reality has become a major political fact. this contradiction is what you are today and what we must resolve. of course, with our group, our delegation, we will do everything to make these six months as useful as possible for our countries. but the truth is, mr president, that the essential part is not there. the main thing is to say to all of you, french and europeans watching: another policy is possible. a policy that takes you seriously, that prefers the sobriety of action to the obsession with communication. a policy which does not seek to strengthen europe by weakening its constituent states. who does not believe that european solidarity is about over-indebtedness? one that doesn't pretend to uphold the rule of law by walking in your freedom and your sovereignty, one that doesn't look down on you at the first disagreement. who respects you and gives himself the means to make you respected by the great powers of the world. you are not asking too much if you hope for all this, and we have a duty to prepare together for the recovery of our countries, of europe, to prepare for the recovery to which you are entitled.
madam president, mr president, mr president-in-office, you have just accused some of using this debate for electoral purposes. what a bad faith! it is you who, by keeping the french presidency's calendar as it is, have sacrificed it on the altar of your electoral ambitions. it's a shame about this debate. it's a shame about france's influence in europe. you introduced yourself this morning as the candidate for industrial sovereignty. - what the fuck? fonderie du poitou, fonderie mdf, fonderie sam, you are in fact the president of the industrial dismantling of france. you introduced yourself this morning as the climate and biodiversity candidate. - what the fuck? you are in fact the president condemned by the french and european courts for climate and environmental inaction. you presented yourself this morning as the candidate of the rule of law and the defense of freedoms. - what the fuck? you are the president who has been singled out by our parliament for his calamitous and violent management of the yellow vest movement. no one here is fooled by the reality of your beautiful promises. in three months, the french can rid europe of it, so let's count on them to allow you to do the same... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, mr president of the republic, welcome to this chamber. ladies and gentlemen, we are not here at the national assembly or at a campaign meeting. we are here in the european parliament and we are here in the european parliament to build political majorities to change the lives of europeans. not to make a buzz about the presidential candidate. and then, of course, to leave the chamber without having received an answer to the question. obviously, some people here haven't figured it out yet. i refuse to allow this debate, which is so important for our europe, to be so distorted that it is tainted with bad faith. you cannot both complain that the presidency has not been postponed and at the same time systematically regret that we are not moving fast enough. you cannot claim that france is isolated when your own political groups share the political priorities of this french presidency. you cannot take the european idea hostage for your political calculations. mr president, you are here in friendly territory. you will find a solid majority to transform europe, there is no doubt about that.
before i pass on to mr verhofstadt, i would like to announce that we are now opening the second ballot in the election of the quaestors. as there is one seat to be filled, you can only vote for one candidate. i declare the vote open until 15.15; we will announce the results at 16.00.
we will now continue with the debate on the presentation of the programme of activities of the french presidency.
madam president, you have seen, mr president, that our french colleagues, or at least most of our french colleagues, are obsessed with the elections in france, with the presidential elections. that's why there are all these attacks, mr. bellamy, mr. bardella, mrs. aubry, mr. bompard. mr jadot, i understand: he is the only candidate here at the moment, so he is still enthusiastic. it's the beginning of the campaign, so we get it wrong every now and then in the speech. it's a possible fact. i thought you were on antenne 2 or tf1, something like that. however, what we need at the moment is not these divisions. what we need during these six months is european unity. because, mr jadot, this is a critical time for europe. we are threatened from within: kaczyński and orbán. we're threatened from outside, by putin. and at that moment, we need unity, not just in france, but in europe in general. and so i say to you, mr president, do what you must, come what may. because i can tell you that in europe, the people support you.
madam president, first of all, congratulations to you. it’s an absolute pleasure to have you – and to have a woman once again – at the head of this institution. let me also thank the french president for his committed, passionate and pro—european speech, as we have come, of course, to expect from this french president. i also thank him for his european commitment. he stated at the beginning of this year that the french presidency must be a turning point for europe. let me be clear: ambition and commitments alone are not enough; we also need credibility. et dans ce contexte, monsieur le président, je me demande – et je pense que beaucoup se demandent aussi – si votre politique budgétaire, si vos dépenses publiques sont vraiment dans l’intérêt de la france et de l’europe, ou plutôt dans l’intérêt de votre campagne de réélection. – it’s true, all member states have had to address the economic fallout of the covid crisis, and the eu – as you mentioned – took the historic decision to establish its recovery and resilience facility (rrf). yes, we need to have a debate about the smartest way to shape and apply our budgetary rules. but even before covid, france never breached budgetary rules as much as during the first year of this president’s mandate. europe, mr president, first and foremost, needs a france that is ready for reforms, so that we can build this stronger europe together.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, at european level, when you can impose nuclear power, you can impose everything else. so the question now is what france really wants, precisely, concretely, and i insist on these terms, because at european level, france makes magnificent speeches, beautiful lyrical overtures that we all buy, but when we push the door of negotiations, it is a little bit more complicated. it is a small arm when it does not help to reduce the ambition of certain treaties or directives - i am thinking in particular of the agreement on taxation or banking regulation, or, of course, taxonomy. so the question is simple: will france defend an ambitious reform of the stability and growth pact with the same fervour with which it defended its nuclear programme? and if so, which one? are we going to exclude green investments? will the salaries of civil servants also be excluded from the calculation of the debt and deficits? because health, social, research, education, it's an investment. or will we finally have a france with a little arm? thank you very much, and may we all live long in the memory of president sassoli, simone veil and our right to life!
president and president macron, i am glad that we agree on at least one important priority, and that is higher minimum wages throughout europe. and that means, as far as i am concerned, no unconditional recommendations, but genuine european rules of the game, so that all europeans have a sufficient wage to shop decently. you said you had no time to lose and we therefore expect you to make an ambitious statement on the main fit for 55 proposals before the summer. and there's one thing that doesn't fit in. it has been said today, but to label gas and nuclear as sustainable is simply not possible. don't jeopardize our green deal to score some political points back home. and finally, mr president, oil spills, child labour, poor working conditions ... it is clear that we must tackle the wrong companies, and therefore not delay, but a proposal to make companies responsible for their chain and a mandate from the council on this point.
madam president, mr president of the republic, a parliamentary assembly is always sensitive to the magic of words and you are a talented magician, mr president of the republic. but there comes a time when the incantations, the announcement effects, the round effects finally get tired and, above all, fail to mask a number of ambiguities and contradictions. so who can believe the president of today - a unifier, who respects the identity of peoples and their sovereignty - these are the words you have used - and the one who has been methodically, for the last four years, staging and theorizing a cleavage presented as irreducible between the populists on the one hand, the evil, nationalist, authoritarian, and on the other hand, the virtuous progressive, federalist and necessarily derogatory of national identities. who to believe? i don't identify with any of those categories. can we trust someone who, justifiably, holds the rule of law, which is an important and noble notion, as the standard, but who, in his own country, has been managing the health crisis for two years not with his parliament and his government, who have only endorsed the continuation of a state of emergency for these two years, but from a national defense and security council, which is not a body dedicated to this and whose deliberations are covered by secrecy. in the field of defence, mr president, which could be a common ground, why do you use the formula 'we have done more in two years than in 10 or 50 years'? that is not true, factually. progress is being made in the european defence fund, which is half the size of the initial allocation. but there are real setbacks. we have not launched european executive operations since 2008 and we are unable to mount a robust military mission today, whereas we could do so twenty years ago in africa. there are contradictions and ambiguities which you will not be able to resolve. but we will do this presidency with great responsibility because the irony of the calendar...
madam president, mr president, there are apparently too many crimes and too many powerful criminals to find any place in your long speeches. you have chanted human rights in general, but you have again ignored the worst crime against humanity of our time: the deportation and eradication of the uyghur people. what good are human rights without the courage to defend them? courage is not being silent when millions of human beings are parked in camps. courage is being strong with the strong, not just with the weak. courage is facing the private interests that in our country make us cowards. these multinationals like zara, nike or volkswagen who benefit from the enslavement of a people. courage is finally banning the products of slavery from our markets. courage is standing up to the hundreds of thousands of young people who are urging you to act. the only time in four years that you mentioned the fate of the uyghurs who were tortured, it was to say that france alone could not do anything and that the european scale alone allowed an impact. you're now head of the union and... and still nothing. that's the problem. we know the principles. we defend human rights. what's missing is the courage to wear them.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are finally legislating against illegal content, for our protection online, and that is remarkable. europe is the first country in the world to have such legislation. we are voting for fair rules that are adapted to the different digital players. we are asking for more action to be taken against fraud, against the sale of illegal products, against counterfeiting. the big digital platforms need to do more to assess the risks they pose to our citizens and reduce them accordingly, obviously. ladies and gentlemen, i think we can be very pleased about this, because by defining the internet of tomorrow we are proving once again that europe, as a normative power, can have a say on the international stage against the american and chinese giants. we are proposing a fairer internet model that guarantees the rights of europeans, protects the youngest, and allows the smallest players to develop. to those who advocate a weaker union, who believe that our treaties and laws are inferior to national law, we are proving once again the weakness of their project.
mr president, europe has been a leader in many areas, but in the global digital race we are lagging behind. the world economy is changing, and the digital sector will be pivotal in europe’s geopolitical standing and will be a key driver of economic growth, and also in helping us to achieve our climate change goals in a manner that ensures prosperity. how businesses, consumers and governments access, utilise, and share data is at the core of digitalisation and will ultimately determine how the eu adapts to a new global economic complexion. the dsa is a landmark proposal to regulate the digital space, to protect fundamental rights of users and provide clarity to businesses as to their rights and obligations. in this regard, it will allow european digital companies to reach new customers and compete internationally. it is a not a new problem, but the pandemic has exacerbated the spread of disinformation, especially in relation to vaccines. this is something that every democracy should pay particular attention to. disinformation spreaders now have a well-oiled machine to spread their harmful lies, the consequences of which will continue to create an augmented reality for many citizens. the dsa will help to tackle harmful content, which might not necessarily be illegal, and the spread of disinformation. it will also increase transparency for consumers and strengthen the rights of users on big platforms. at the same time, it will lead to more effective removal of illegal content, increase transparency for consumers, and strengthen the rights of users who have been mistreated by big platforms. finally, the message has to be that, when it comes to new generation technologies, europe must be a fast mover, not a laggard.
mr president, we must be allowed to build our digital future on the basis of human rights and not let human rights disappear when online. there are many laws to protect people in real life; online life lacks rules and laws. what is illegal offline must be also illegal online. it’s urgent to tackle fake news and hate speech. the internet is global. it is no longer open and democratic, but built on a few private platforms, so these big platforms need rules to guarantee safe, open and fair cyberspace. this legislation prevents the creating of a profile of children on the basis of their online life. it also protects all of us, and prohibits the use of our most sensitive data to fuel targeted advertising. would you accept everything your children have done online being used to create a profile of them for advertising? me neither. we need much stronger protection than what we have now. targeted advertising is not only a question of the consumer and markets; it is about human rights. the eu is not alone in our efforts to govern digital platforms. yesterday, democrats in the us congress proposed the banning surveillance advertising act. for societies, a fairer economical model is also crucial. interoperability requirements allow more actors and companies to bring more economic activity; then we can set a level playing field.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, let us remember the internet twenty years ago: no facebook, no youtube, no spotify, no wish, no dropbox... you know all these names and many others well, because they have changed our daily lives and at the same time have taken a central place in our lives. but with great power comes great responsibility. with the dsa, our parliament sets the rules of the game for the big internet companies. europe is getting back on its feet. these rules will help to combat hate speech, disinformation, counterfeiting and protect our cultural content. they will allow internet users to choose their browsing freely without being trapped by obscure algorithms and perverse interfaces. today, with this text, europe is leading the way and i know that the french presidency of the european union will make this a priority to put an end to the digital wild west.
author. – mr president, congratulations on your election. china’s policy is once more on our agenda, and that will happen quite often in the time that we have ahead of us, because china is pursuing an increasingly aggressive, oppressive policy. i want to thank the democratic political groups in the european parliament and all the colleagues that contributed to the drafting of this resolution for their efforts, because it is important for the european parliament to remain a champion of the defence of human rights and the defence of democracy. and this is even more important since the council has been hesitating, to say the least. when we look at the facts, it is clear that oppression in hong kong is not relenting. just the opposite: 64 democratic and civic groups have been dissolved over the last year, more than 150 democrats, activists, journalists are languishing in jail, some of them more than a year without having seen a court yet. the last free media have been muzzled. this is a situation that bears out the worst nightmares that hong kong democrats had when they did courageously stand up for democracy. but they’re not shying back: democracy is not dead in hong kong. it merits our support, and i call upon the member states and also our colleagues in the national parliaments to join forces with us in the european parliament in that regard. we should not be delusional. if we forget about what china does, china doesn’t forget about us. we see that in the case of lithuania. china is willing to break all international rules to pursue its hegemonic imperial goals. let us carry the flag of the fight for democracy and the fight for human rights. if it’s not possible in hong kong to have fourth of june vigils, let us organise the fourth of june vigils this year. let us organise hong kong day on 1 july this year to commemorate our courageous colleagues in hong kong.
author. – mr president, i fully support the statements of my colleagues, the co—authors of this draft resolution, and hope for broad support in the vote. certainly, after the adoption of the so—called national security law, the people’s republic of china (prc) was even able to tighten its autocratic grip on the freedom—loving population of hong kong, in particular curbing all manifestations of free political will and freedom of speech, and intimidating large groups of people. we saw this in particular in the run up to the legislative elections on 19 december and immediately after, with the persecution of all those advocating the boycott of the election. in the last days of december, the raid on the stand news building and premises was just one additional manifestation we used to defend jimmy lai and others. let us remember the hong kong people and let us broaden support for them.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, hong kong is for the first time a country where journalists are imprisoned. i very much appreciate the motion for a resolution that our colleagues have prepared. thank you very much. the situation is indeed very serious. china is violating its 1997 commitment to maintain hong kong's autonomy, including an independent judiciary. this report gives the exact numbers and some of the names of the persecuted: 139 imprisoned, 60 in custody, 94 accused. the chinese judiciary abuses the state security law and takes a hard line against human rights defenders and independent media. newspapers like the apple daily and the stand news had to close. journalists have had their computers confiscated, they are being intimidated, and the office of amnesty international and 60 other civil society organizations, including religious organizations, have been forced to close. we know of dozens of activists who are in prison. we and their families are concerned about their fate. the european union has long promoted the stability of hong kong. i was expecting today, and unfortunately in vain, that in his speech emmanuel macron would propose concrete steps that would force china to release political prisoners and stop the repression in hong kong and stop threatening taiwan. the european parliament's resolution is much clearer and more specific in this respect. we propose sanctions against those responsible. the ratification of the eu-china investment agreement must be conditional on the protection of human rights in both china and hong kong and on respect for the 'one country, two systems' principle. in the current situation, i cannot imagine the political representation of the european union and its member countries at the beijing olympics. the chinese regime is using the olympics to legitimize its regime, which imprisons, tortures and persecutes its citizens. thank you all for your courageous acts of resistance, including this resolution.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, it is true, as has been said, that the chinese repression in hong kong has been going on for months, i would say for almost more than years. most of the voices of dissidents are now in prison, so there is terrible oppression. hong kong was ranked 12th in the world for freedom of expression in 2002. today, hong kong is ranked 80th in the world. we can see how strong this repression is in hong kong. we do have a number of pro-democracy movements whose members are now in prison. we have a lot of journalists who are gagged, we have most of the free media that are now closed down -- we talked about apple daily, stand news, citizen news. today, all these media outlets have been closed down and the only media outlets left in hong kong are international media outlets. how long will we have the opportunity to have a free voice in hong kong? it is true that the european union must stand by democracy. the european union cannot stand by dictators and oppressors. that is why we are asking that diplomacy no longer be blind to human rights violations, that there be no political diplomatic representation at the beijing olympic games, that is a clear message, but also that we do not have this investment agreement. it's also important to be able to tap where it hurts. finally, it is also important to have a message to our companies in china. and that is what we call corporate responsibility, and therefore due diligence, which, commissioner, i know you are working on, will be an extremely powerful instrument to fight for and to have this democracy in china.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, once again china is showing that it is not honouring any of its commitments, and is prepared to do anything to destroy any opposition or even any freedom in hong kong. once again, our solidarity and unconditional support for the hong kong democrats must be heard and china cannot silence us. so let us use our european human rights system, as we did to condemn the massacre of the uyghurs. let's use our trade relations as leverage to pressure the authorities in beijing. unfortunately, and it has been said, hong kong is not alone: taiwan and even a member state of the european union, lithuania, are victims of chinese policy. the anti-coercion instrument is a key pillar of our action to defend our interests and to make our values prevail. we need to build our credibility, work with all our deterrents to move forward. we're waiting for you, commissioner.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, i believe in the power and strength of words, said malala. words are afraid of dictatorships, they are afraid of those who use them: political opposition, journalists, artists, students, teachers, children who ask too many questions, films that open up new horizons... today in hong kong, these people who are considered too critical are harassed, intimidated and thrown in jail. today, in hong kong, commemoration of the tiananmen massacre is banned and repressed to life imprisonment. the museum on the massacre was closed and the famous statue the pillar of shame was destroyed. today in hong kong, the ruling power is also attacking culture, memory, history, to better control minds and thoughts. it's about erasing the past to better control the future. but all of this is not just for the people of hong kong. when freedom is trampled upon, when democracy is attacked, when the press is muzzled, it is the whole of the free world that is affected and the freedoms that are targeted even in our democracies. in the face of this, the european union can and must react more firmly: suspend extraditions to hong kong anywhere in europe; the european union has also called for a european, diplomatic and political boycott of the olympic games in beijing; condemning and ending the complicity of banks in freezing the assets and bank accounts of pro-democracy groups and the media; preventing the export of technology used to violate human rights; the european union has a duty to prevent european investment in companies which are complicit in flagrant human rights violations. it is now up to the eeas, the council and the member states to roll up their sleeves and act. our resolution contains many practical measures to this end.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, almaty, nur-sultan and many other cities in kazakhstan have been the scene of deadly clashes. kazakhstan even had to appeal to the common security treaty organization to restore order. and i note that almost all the foreign troops have already returned to their country. i was therefore somewhat surprised to learn that this debate was on the agenda. i was glad to hear it at first. i was wondering if perhaps our parliament would mention the stability of this country since independence. no more bloody civil war like in tajikistan. no conflict with neighboring states like armenia and azerbaijan. i guess i figured we'd be encouraging development there. i thought it reminded us of the importance of our commodity trading relationship with this great central asian country. i thought perhaps naively that we would congratulate kazakhstan for its religious peace in a part of the world that is plagued by islamic radicalization. but no, i forgot that these resolutions are really only intended to give our parliament a good conscience. we must condemn and if possible condemn quickly. even though we have absolutely too little information. we don't know exactly what happened in kazakhstan. other speakers have pointed this out before me. we know that far too many lives have been lost by both the protesters and the security forces. is this a riot over inflation? is this another manipulation by mr. abliazov using the billions of dollars he stole from the kazakh people to fund organizations to destabilize the country? is this the result of political tensions? we don't know anything for sure at this time. and yet, a majority of members are proud to condemn this, because kazakhstan's progress, its central role in the new silk roads, its political evolution, are obviously being pushed into the background. what seems to be in the interest of the majority in this parliament is to use every situation to attack russia or china. i would like to express my deepest condolences to the military and civilian victims of these events and i hope that the light will be shed and that kazakhstan will resume its economic and democratic development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very concerned about the situation in kazakhstan. what head of state can justify shooting his own citizens without a warrant? it is not a question of challenging the sovereignty of president tokayev. kazakhstan is a free and sovereign state. but whatever the reasons for the anger of the state, i cannot accept the method employed. i cannot stand that the kazakh people are being targeted with live ammunition by their own leader. who can accept it? i also ask that the many disappearances and arrests carried out by the kazakh government be brought to light. i can only imagine the pain the families of the missing must be feeling. president tokayev must provide answers, and if the answers are not clear and acceptable, i ask that exemplary sanctions be taken against kazakhstan and that all trade and diplomatic exchanges with that country be suspended until further notice. a country that does not respect human rights has no right to trade with the european union and its member states.
author. madam president, it is in europe's interest, as well as the interest of the sudanese, that there be calm and order in their country. we all welcomed the departure of omar al-bashir and the identity and democracy group is calling for his presentation before the international criminal court in its alternative resolution. the government of sudan has since been divided between several political forces that have great difficulty in getting along. the international community must refrain from any interference in the affairs of sudan and avoid repeating in khartoum the mistakes it made in libya or egypt. civil war in ethiopia, people fleeing eritrea, high-risk presidential election in somalia. the threats of an influx of migrants from the horn of africa are high. the triggering of us or eu sanctions on sudan would only increase these risks. i am particularly concerned, moreover, about the inaction and silence of the european union on ethiopia's filling of its blue nile dam. president abiy ahmed could accelerate this process and thus endanger thousands of lives in sudan and egypt. his bloody repression of the people of tigray shows that he is quite capable of it. and when i read in the joint resolution that some people are afraid of the border surveillance measures in sudan, i can only be appalled. while the muslim brotherhood could use the situation to try to turn sudan into a safe haven for islamists from around the world, we must beware of any hasty condemnation. we can see from libya that speeding up the elections is not always the best way to improve the situation. it is in our interest to work with neighbouring countries, notably egypt and chad, to prevent any dangerous consequences in this troubled time in sudan.
the sitting is closed and will resume at 9 a.m. tomorrow, thursday, 20 january, with the announcement of the results of today's vote. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
i have a few points and announcements. i have received from the council its position at first reading, as well as the reasons which led to its adoption, and the positions and opinions of the commission. the full title will be listed in the minutes of this sitting. the due time period available to parliament to adopt its position will therefore begin as from tomorrow, 21 january 2022.
i will now announce the results of the second voting session held yesterday, 19 january 2022. (the president read out the results of the vote.) 1_______________1 see minutes for details.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the commission regrets that the european parliament has rejected the two commission delegated regulations on identity data. the commission stands ready to continue technical discussions with the european parliament in order to address its concerns while ensuring the timely entry into operation of the full interoperability architecture by the end of 2023.
the first item on the agenda is the topical debate (rule 162) on sexual and reproductive health and related rights in the european union (2022/2508 ((rsp)). i would remind the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, as in recent part-sessions, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen. i would also like to remind the honourable members that the speeches in the chamber will continue to be made from the centre stage. so please keep your eyes on the list of speakers and look toward the platform as the time for your talk approaches.
author. madam president, health - and we know this today with full knowledge - is one of the main concerns of european citizens: we all defend the right to health protection and access to health care and adequate treatment; however, when it comes to sexual and reproductive health, some are already taking a step back and denying this right to citizens, especially women, the most affected. human sexuality remains taboo, even though it is essential to ensure the preservation of humanity; unfortunately, many shortsighted people equate sexual and reproductive health with abortion and completely reject the term. sexual and reproductive health goes much further: it includes regular health checks to ensure the health of women and men, health care for pregnant women and mothers, treatment for sexually transmitted diseases... also, female and male reproductive treatments, fertility treatments and assisted reproductive techniques, as well as contraceptives. i also, i do not deny it, understand the voluntary termination of pregnancy, because no woman should be forced to be a mother if she does not want to, whatever the reason she may claim. banning abortion does not mean more children will be born, it means more women will die, who will have to resort to clandestine abortions in unsafe conditions; women without economic resources, because those who do have them will go to other countries where it is allowed. it is unacceptable that in the 21st century women are dying in europe because of this, and believe me, because it is a glaring reality, if we ban abortion, women will die. the world health organization estimates that twenty-five million unsafe abortions take place each year, the vast majority in developing countries, and thousands upon thousands of deaths are estimated to result from these causes. the only thing that really works to prevent unwanted abortion is to ensure access to affordable contraceptives and age-appropriate sex education for pupils from an early age - only then will the abortion rate be reduced. as a major argentine campaign advocated, "sex education to decide, contraceptives not to abort, legal abortion not to die". the social need to move towards the complete decriminalisation of abortion is a public health issue that must be addressed, that of universal equal access to health. sexual health and rights are essential services. i repeat the request of the socialist group - which president macron also echoed yesterday - that sexual and reproductive health and rights be included in the charter of fundamental rights and in the european union's public health strategy. i would also like to call on governments to apply reduced vat to feminine hygiene products, which are not luxury goods, but are essential products for women: unfortunately, many women with no means have difficulty in accessing them. remember before you vote no on sexual and reproductive health and rights: you are denying healthcare to pregnant women, mothers and people with sexually transmitted diseases and you are also depriving men and women, young people, of access to contraceptives so that they can choose. so let us be aware of the work ahead of us, let us be aware that this fight requires that we do not take a step backwards, that sexual and reproductive health and rights are rights of citizenship in the european union and that we in the socialist and democratic group will not allow a single step backwards in the defence of women's rights.
president of the council. madam president, allow me to congratulate you once again on your election. i thank you for having invited the presidency of the council, for the first time by my presence, to intervene in this topical debate on an important subject, as president garcía pérez has reminded us. as you know, from a legal point of view, in accordance with our treaties, the european union's action in the field of public health, in the broadest sense, including this issue of fundamental rights, must be carried out in compliance with the responsibilities laid down, the responsibilities of the member states in terms of defining their public health policy, the organisation, the provision of health services and medical care. however, i would like to recall a number of actions carried out in this context, notably the european union health programme, which provides for european financial support for member states' actions to promote access to sexual and reproductive health care and support for cross-cutting approaches to prevention, diagnosis and treatment of care. on behalf of the presidency, i would also like to call on all the member states of our european union to give greater support to non-governmental organisations that support women's rights by ensuring that they can access european union funding, programmes and rights, including its budgetary support from the european social fund or the citizens, equality, rights and values programme. i would also like to stress that the right enshrined in the european pillar of social rights provides that everyone has the right to timely access to affordable and quality preventive and corrective health care. in addition, the european union places a strong emphasis on equality between women and men, with a cross-cutting approach across all these policies. at the international level, as you know, and in our development policy, the council has recently and repeatedly reaffirmed the union's commitment to promoting, protecting and respecting the right of everyone to be in full control of his or her sexuality and sexual and reproductive health, to take decisions in this area freely and responsibly without any discrimination, without any coercion, without any violence. as regards the specific question of the right to abortion, i must also recall the legal framework since, according to the settled case-law of the european court of human rights, states have a wide margin of appreciation as to whether and under what conditions this right is authorised by their national law. i would also point out, from a legal point of view, that when a member state decides - and fortunately this is the vast majority of cases - to allow this right, it has, according to the european court of human rights, the obligation to create a framework enabling a pregnant woman to effectively exercise her right of access to legal abortion, in accordance with the provisions of the european convention on human rights. i mean, beyond this legal approach which i have to remind you of as president, our commitment to this right is very clear. president macron reminded this house yesterday, with the intention of opening a debate, which obviously requires an agreement between member states at the end of the conference on the future of europe, which is an important moment for re-founding our ways of working and our policies, on the extension of the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter proclaimed 20 years ago. i think it's time to show that rights move forward and not backwards, and to have this debate about the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy. i also welcome the proposal and the political agreement reached earlier this week, madam president, with the support of several groups in this house and your personal support, on the simone veil pact, which has several dimensions for the strengthening of women's rights and which starts with the issue of sexual and reproductive rights, in particular the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy. i think we need to open this debate with maturity, with commitment. the presidency is, no doubt about it. finally, i would like to thank the european commission, madam vice-president, for the european union's strategy for equality between women and men, presented in march 2020, and for all the initiatives and actions planned in this context. and i believe that this necessary debate on the simone veil pact, which president von der leyen supported, and on several texts on women's rights which i hope will be concluded during the french presidency, as well as the debate we will have on fundamental rights and their extension in the coming months, will be conducted with your support. thank you very much, however, for bringing this up. thank you for your attention, you can count on my commitment.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, in june last year, this house adopted, with a strong majority, the matić report on sexual and reproductive health and rights. that report confirmed that sexual and reproductive health and rights are human rights, and violations of those rights are a form of violence against women and hinder progress towards gender equality. it also highlighted the challenges, gaps and even backsliding in this field within the eu and around the world. high-quality sexual and reproductive health services are fundamental to the overall health and well-being of individuals, couples and families, and go well beyond abortion. they cover issues such as contraception, education and prevention, treatment of hiv and other sexually transmitted diseases, as well as fertility and sex-specific cancers. comprehensive sexuality education is not only a key to building children’s and young people’s skills to form healthy, equal and safe relationships, but it can also help in combating gender stereotypes, violence and abuse against children and women, as well as discrimination. while the commission recognises that sexual and reproductive health and rights are integral to our general health, i would like to recall clearly that legislative powers on health lie within the member states. member states are thus responsible for the definition of their health policy and the work done in the area of public health. the eu has only complementary competence and it is limited to encouraging cooperation between member states and, if necessary, to lending support to their action. all women across the eu should have adequate access to good-quality health care and treatment. sexual and reproductive health is a part of it. one of the objectives of the eu4health programme is to improve and foster health in the union to reduce the burden of communicable and non-communicable diseases, among others, by promoting access to health care. this includes access to sexual and reproductive health care as well. the programme may support member states’ actions to promote access to sexual and reproductive health care and to support integrated and intersectional approaches to prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care. strong women’s rights and gender equality are an asset and an achievement that the whole of europe must be proud of, and we should not take them for granted. let me conclude by reacting shortly on clément beaune and the presidency and the plan which was announced yesterday by president macron. i want to confirm here that the commission stands ready to cooperate and to help all these efforts, which will lead to a fairer europe for women. and i also want to confirm that not only are we implementing now the gender equality strategy from spring last year, but also specifically now focusing on violence against women, because we want to adopt the directive against violence this year in spring.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr president, welcome to the european parliament. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the matter. for years, we have seen massive attacks on sexual freedom in europe an authoritarian backlash that tries to make us fight for our right to our own bodies. but alongside all these attacks, there is also light in the darkness, and not just in ireland, but finally in germany as well. i want to make this very clear again, because i am often surprised and misunderstood when i explain this to my french colleagues: in germany, abortion is still regulated by the criminal code. abortion is only criminally permissible under certain conditions, but it is still not decriminalised. so far, doctors can be prosecuted for even posting information about abortions on their websites. this information ban, article 219a, was reintroduced by the nazis in 1933. what was behind this, many can probably imagine. now this week finally, finally, finally, after many years of hard fighting the irreplaceable repeal of article 219a has finally been triggered. this is not the last step in a long journey, of course, but i think it is an important signal, because the debate on sexual and reproductive rights in germany lags far behind many other eu member states. we need to make progress on sexual self-determination in europe, because for years we have been fighting, if we are honest, often a defensive battle. the aim of feminist movements must be to move forward. so, thank you to the many activists, to the doctors, especially kristina hänel, to the lawyers and to the many, many other people who have worked tirelessly to abolish this paragraph. the european parliament is clearly on your side. now we must continue until the old slogans of demonstrations become reality everywhere in europe: 'my belly is mine', 'my body is my decision'.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! the first country in the world to introduce abortion on demand was the soviet union in 1920. in 1933, eugenic abortion became the law of the land in nazi germany. after world war ii, the communists introduced abortion on demand in all the eastern bloc countries. today, the left is trying to tell us that access to abortion is a human right. well, abortion is not a universal human right and is not covered by any international law. on the contrary, i'm not. the convention on the rights of the child stresses that because of his immaturity, a child needs special care and attention both before and after birth. article 2 of the charter of fundamental rights states that 'everyone has the right to life'. because the right to life is the fundamental right from which all other rights are derived. the charter of fundamental rights does not require renewal, as macron said, but its provisions must be fulfilled. the right to life is a fundamental value on which the moral and social order is based. today, left-liberal circles are sowing ideological confusion. you want abortion on demand, euthanasia, disregarding the fact that every human being has the right to live from conception to natural death. you're flouting the fundamental principle that my freedom ends where another man's freedom begins. the other person in this case is the most vulnerable -- an unborn child who has the right to treatment, to inheritance, but according to you, no right to life.
madam president, madam vice-president, mr minister, simone veil, the first female president of the european parliament, said: 'contraception has enshrined women's freedom and control over their bodies.' that was 43 years ago. access to contraception, as we know, is essential. and yet it is still too unequal in europe, sometimes, moreover, simply because of a lack of information. but it is also the absence or low reimbursement of what is, however, medical care that should alert us. the european union must ensure that restrictions on contraception do not increase in europe. for example, poland was the only european country in 2020 to have increased restrictions on contraception in the last four years. inequalities also exist in access to emergency contraception, which is unfortunately considered in some member states to be abortion. the pandemic has also made things worse. some member states considered contraception not to be an essential service, while others suspended services related to ivf, further complicating access to abortion. as with contraception, we must have a clear position on the right to abortion. as we know, some member states have still not legalised abortion and others have considerably restricted it. this is obviously a sensitive issue, since it is a matter for each member state. but the european parliament can decide. it even has to decide on public health issues: worldwide, a woman dies every nine minutes from a clandestine abortion. we cannot accept that women citizens of europe put their health or lives at risk. if we are to build the europe of health to which we aspire, we must of course tackle these questions.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, in this house we are fighting for equal pay, the introduction of quotas, work-life balance. we all aspire to a union of equality. but if we really want to achieve equality between women and men, there is one essential condition: respect for sexual and reproductive rights. each man should control his own body, and all decisions are his own. this is the foundation of women's emancipation, autonomy and freedom. sexual and reproductive rights are also indicative of the health of a democracy. the limitation of these rights is accompanied by a challenge to judicial independence and respect for the rule of law. the ban on abortion in poland, the pro-natalist policies in hungary: the examples are multiplying, and we are powerless to stop them. ladies and gentlemen, with our progressive majority, we must be more demanding and use all the levers to defend the sexual and reproductive rights of our citizens, starting with this french presidency. we keep saying that abortion is a fundamental right, so let's go ahead and push for it to be included in the charter, as president emmanuel macron proposed yesterday. secondly, the simone veil pact, proposed by our group renew, must also become a reality. together, parliament, commission and council, we can ensure that the most protective legislation is adopted on equal opportunities at work, the fight against violence and, above all, sexual and reproductive rights. we need each of you to carry this pact, to defend it, starting with president metsola, who is not here this morning. i promise you, we will be vigilant, madam president.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the member states must commit themselves to, quote, 'decriminalizing abortion and removing obstacles to its practice' and to guaranteeing 'safe and legal access to abortion based on women's health and rights'. these words come from the report we voted on in june on sexual and reproductive rights, which was tabled by our colleague fred matić, and to which i had the honour of contributing on behalf of my political group, in order to win the battle against abortion in this house. these words are our position, they are our commitment. the renew group has made a clear proposal to go further, the simone veil pact, to bring all women's rights up, including sexual and reproductive rights, and to achieve a society where women and men are equal. president metsola and president macron, who holds the rotating presidency of our union, have committed themselves to signing it. the president of france proposed to go further by including the right to abortion in the list of fundamental rights. so, it's time: let's help them, let's win the abortion battle at the trilogue level. let us each in our own country go to our governments, to our national parliaments and let us ensure that these agreements are signed in all the countries of our union and that the right to abortion becomes a reality for all european women. because it's our body, it's our choice.
madam president, the abuses documented by animal welfare organizations and reported by the media, the terrible shipwrecks of garbage trucks and the odysseys across the seas have moved our fellow citizens. they are watching us closely, because this committee of inquiry is a unique opportunity to improve the situation of transported animals. more or less all political groups now recognise that the conditions for land and sea transport are not only not in line with the 2005 regulation, but are insufficient. animals suffer from extreme temperatures, lack of water, food, space and hygiene, and brutalities during loading or unloading. the situation is even worse for exports to third countries, particularly the middle east and north africa. because when they get to these countries, the worst is waiting for them. some have their eyes gouged out or their tendons cut and are subjected to a cruel method of slaughter by stunning butchering. we cannot claim to improve the lot of animals while allowing such atrocities to continue. it is therefore the great merit of the anit committee that it has advocated numerous and detailed measures to improve the situation of transported animals. these proposals must be followed by strong and concrete measures. the problem must also be dealt with at the source. the origin of long-distance transport within the european union and exports to third countries is the development of intensive livestock farming. however, there are alternatives, such as the transport of meat, carcasses or genetic material, which have proved to be less expensive. the union must promote these alternatives by providing financial support to the various actors so that they can have the necessary equipment. i shall therefore vote in favour of these recommendations, but they do not go far enough. i therefore urge the european commission to embark on a genuine transition towards the transport of meat rather than live animals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we transport more than 1.5 billion animals a year. millions of them cross the eu's borders after days and days of being stranded at sea or on the road, suffering from heat or cold, lack of rest, water or food. all this to get to countries where the union can't even control how they're treated. others are transported from one member state to another, sometimes just after being torn from their mothers, because of this absurd specialisation of territories which means that an animal is born in one country and is raised in a second and slaughtered in a third. they too suffer from stress, temperature, and even abuse. the work of our committee of inquiry has amply demonstrated this. my dear colleagues, if we are not able to export animals without suffering, then we must stop. if we are not able to transport unweaned animals with respect to their needs, then we must stop. we can do something else: expand cold chains, reduce transport times and, most importantly, rethink our livestock system by reducing our consumption of animal products. the associations and european citizens have been calling for action on behalf of animals for years. i urge you, colleagues, not to miss this unique opportunity to make a great act of civilization and progress in moving towards the end of animal abuse. make no mistake, the constant violence we exert on the rest of life is the corollary of the incredible violence that reigns in our societies. let us say it loud and clear: the progress of the human condition is inseparable from the progress of the animal condition. we must move decisively towards a society of harmony between human beings and all living things.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not understand you. in december we unanimously adopted a report on the first ever inquiry. it was the result of 18 months of work by the committee of inquiry into the protection of animals during transport. it is very clear that european law is not being respected, that it is inadequate and that this causes immense suffering for hundreds of millions of animals every year. the chickens are packed into transport crates that are far too small. lambs transported for more than 24 hours without access to water. calves transported from the czech republic to spain for fattening. the 14,000 sheep who died in the sinking of their cargo ship. the animals were slaughtered in the port of cartagena before being transported for ten days from spain to saudi arabia. we've all seen the same images. we all heard the same testimonies. so yes, the text does propose some improvements for animals going to slaughter or for certain species, which are not covered by the legislation at present. but today you are about to reject any meaningful measure to improve animal welfare. prohibit the transport of unweaned animals less than five weeks old? you don't want any of it. prohibit the transport of females during the last third of their gestation? you say no. limiting transport time to eight hours for any reason? it's still no. prohibit the export of animals to third countries which do not even comply with european rules? you're out of the question. this is what a very large number of citizens are asking for. so i am disappointed to see that so many members have chosen to put the interests of agribusiness above the protection of animals. i'm disappointed and i'm angry. i hope the commission will do better in 2023 when it makes its proposals.
madam president, for too long public opinion has been warning us of the deadly drift of this sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. or those garbage trucks full of animals that sink in utter indifference. it's time to question our industrial model that has turned living things into consumables. europe must have special and uncompromising legislation to ensure dignified and painless transport, stricter temperature standards, local slaughterhouses and systematic upstream controls. being exemplary in dealing with animal life is not only a civilized duty, it is also ensuring a quality product for the consumer. once that battle is fought, let us tackle the root of the problem: free trade agreements, overconsumption, unfair competition. all these are fundamental problems which the european union has not yet addressed. worse, it has made it its ideological dogma. in the face of ultraliberalism, let us adopt localist solutions. let us promote small farms which make up the quality of european products, let us encourage short circuits and above all let us finally establish a dialogue with our small artisans rather than decide everything blindly from brussels. animal welfare is not a second-rate subject to be left to european technicians. it is a social issue in its own right and involves deep moral values in our society. in this committee of inquiry my colleagues from the id group and i have managed to find compromises which are going in the right direction. we have opposed short circuits to the globalism advocated by this parliament, while proposing common sense measures to benefit our agriculture and our farmers. the result is a satisfactory compromise which may finally open a first breakthrough in the industrialization of life. animal welfare is at the heart of my political commitment and i shall therefore vote in favour of this text without reservation.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr secretary of state, dear young people in europe, i put you in the plural. unemployment, poor working conditions, mental health - social and economic problems are not new to our young people. the pandemic is only exacerbating problems that already existed. designating 2022 as the european year of youth is a first signal we have already sent, with the ambitious aim of responding to the demands of young women. but this signal is of little use if it turns out to be just fine words, blabbering with no real concrete content. it's the end of january. one month into this year, we are still waiting to find out more about the details of the alma programme, including how it intends to reach the most vulnerable young people in europe's remotest regions. what about the suburbs and rural areas, the big forgotten ones? i would also like to see a year that makes a clear commitment to the long-standing demand of young people across europe: the end of all unpaid traineeships. it was disappointing that parliament was not prepared to press for this. but i'm not giving up. i am therefore curious, commissioner, mr beaune, to hear your position on this matter. are you prepared to reassess your commitment to quality internships and apprenticeships, including through fair pay and, let's be crazy, why not fair pay for all interns? strong and immediate action is needed to ensure post-pandemic employment and support the social recovery and mental health of young people in the eu. our youth has been talking to us, screaming for years. are the commission and the council prepared to listen to them and act accordingly?
mr president, this debate concerns the future of european youth after the pandemic. but let's talk about the present. the good news is, for you, there will be an end to the pandemic. president macron and his acolytes should hear you, so that this health dictatorship that has been in place in france for the last two years can be brought to an end as soon as possible. two years of hell for our french youth, which have led to suicides, school dropouts, lost internships in companies and, to top it all off, a mandatory vaccination to go to sports, movies or discos. a broken youth, children tortured by pcr test masks imposed on ibiza at the last minute. indeed, history will remember that live from this island dedicated to the party, on january 2, the minister of education and youth, jean-michel blanquer, announced the new covid protocol to be applied in schools. with a covid vaccine so ineffective against contagion and unsuitable for young people, should we still push for mandatory vaccination of this population? it's time to come to our senses. more than 115,000 children aged 5 to 9 have been injected in france. how many in the other member states? pfizer has a 90% margin on their vaccine. but for our young people, do the benefits outweigh the risks? according to the ema, there are 6,000 suspected deaths of all ages, medical alerts for nearly 1,000 children, including 407 infants. in france, last summer alone, there were 917 myocarditis cases. i think of that 16-year-old who took his dose to do sports and ended up in the emergency room in montpellier. in the face of covid, some countries have preserved the freedom of their citizens and others have preferred to sacrifice their youth. one day they will have to answer to this sacrificed youth.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, madam president, commissioner, petrol, electricity, pasta, rice: everything is more expensive. people all over europe are getting caught in the throat and some are already calling on the european central bank to tighten the monetary screw, as if policy rates were still the determining factor in inflation. before the pandemic, the ecb had already injected €4 trillion, without any inflation, because the financial bubble had taken almost everything, leaving only crumbs for the real economy. the current crisis of purchasing power has nothing to do with money. it is due, on the one hand, to the voracity of energy companies like total, which are racking up historic profits by turning consumers into cash cows, and on the other hand, to the chaos in global supply chains, which the pandemic has totally destabilized. you admit, moreover, mrs lagarde, that raising rates, i quote, 'would not solve any of the current problems'. for once, i have to say i agree with you. cutting off the tap, like after the 2008 crisis, would be a disaster. but in this context i have a question for you: what is the purpose of the ecb's main objective of price stability, which you defend so much, even today? as my colleague papadimoulis' report points out, the very role of the ecb in the face of the social and ecological emergency must be questioned. mrs lagarde, take up this break and start the recasting of the ecb's mandate. money is not a technical tool, it is a political lever. europe can no longer be the only place where monetary policy is not debated democratically, so that it finally serves the real economic needs, not those of speculators of all kinds.
president, madam president, commissioner, while prices in the supermarket are skyrocketing and the energy bill is really going through the roof, the ecb continues to refuse to intervene. we're actually hearing one excuse after another: inflation is only temporary, more data is needed to analyze, or a rate hike won't solve the problem. in any case, where the economy is running short, the ecb has no shortage of excuses. the ecb has only one task in my view, and that is to ensure price stability. are the prices going up too much? then the central bank has to intervene. but after months of high and rising inflation, the ecb is still sitting on its hands. it is high time that the ecb finally tackled this problem by normalising monetary policy, by stopping printing money and by raising interest rates. it's the only way to get the inflation spirit back in the bottle.
commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the monetary policy of the ecb has enabled the member states to increase their budgetary capacities tenfold, which is not a bad thing. but unfortunately, it has been little used in the investments that are so necessary for our future. today i am thinking in particular of the increase in energy prices, which undoubtedly leads to an increase in consumer prices. some governments have chosen temporary solutions, which allow people to get out of the water, but what happens afterwards? the "whatever it takes" approach has allowed total or lvmh to generate record profits in 2021. the same is true of société générale and bnp, which, moreover, continue to support brown investments, as a report confirmed this morning. the cac 40 is in full swing, and in the meantime, what happens to the salaried, the real people, the ones who matter at the end of the month? so i wonder, mrs lagarde, not about the expenditure of the ecb, but about the quality of that expenditure. the best way to fight inflation is to fight rising energy prices, because the real risk is delaying the energy transition. a real signal of the courage needed to bring down inflation is to invest in renewable energy, so that our economy moves as quickly as possible away from raw energy sources, whose prices are already rising. so, two questions. the first is how the ecb intends to contribute to this objective, given that this already directly affects price stability. i'll stop right there.
ladies and gentlemen, madam president, with the new taxonomy which aims to direct european financing towards activities which the commission considers to be ecologically sustainable, the european central bank is becoming the arm of punitive ecology. as always, the risks, the intolerable red tape and the bankruptcies will only hit the human-sized enterprises - the smes, the smes - who are the real creators of wealth. as always, the big corporations, backed by high finance, will have nothing to fear. they'll pool their losses and privatize their profits. the truth, mrs lagarde, is that the european central bank is detaching itself from the real economy year by year - the economy that produces, invests and provides for families, not the high-end traders. it is urgent that the ecb ceases to be the footstool of goldman sachs and finally participates in the financing of the real economy, which, after the covid-19 and energy crisis, would give new prospects and revive the purchasing power of the people of europe.
madam president, madam president, dear commissioner, there is what the central bank can do, what it cannot do and what it must do. it cannot - and i think we can all agree - fight against short-term energy price inflation, or deflation for that matter, with an interest rate. it must instead manage interest rate differentials, spreads, given that we do not have debt mutualisation, and that is, in fact, its real mandate today. it can do a great deal in the field of the ecological transition. i think we are all delighted to see the future greening of the european central bank's monetary policy, but we are also looking forward to seeing you in another area, namely supervision. since the paris agreement, the world's 60 largest banks have committed almost €4 trillion in financing for fossil fuels. among them are large european banks, which fall under the supervision of the european central bank. these investments are risky: they're risky for our lives; they're risky for financial stability. the basel committee has always said that the riskier an investment is, the more it must be made on own funds and the more the banks' own funds must be mobilised. we are therefore waiting for strong proposals in this area. since we already have an ecological crisis to deal with, it would be a pity to have a financial crisis to deal with.
madam president, madam lagarde, commissioner, colleagues, since the introduction of the euro, empirical reforms have enabled the euro to weather several major crises with more or less resilience. in general, the current economic environment should raise questions about the relevance of the ecb's rate choices, but also about its ability to find new tools to intervene in the event of new tensions. the institution is currently facing two major risks: runaway inflation and the issue of interest rate differentials at which euro area member states borrow. after two decades of price stability, the spectre of high inflation is returning. by your own admission, ms lagarde, inflation could well be much higher than anticipated. the evolution of the components of inflation, in particular energy prices, will be decisive for the projections. the negative consequences are many: reduction of growth potential through higher credit rates, decline in purchasing power, erosion of the value of savings, correction of the real estate and financial markets... the feedback would be essential. the ecb must not repeat the mistakes of too-brutal interest rate hikes, such as the one in 2008, which dried up liquidity at $145 a barrel, or the one in 2011, which accelerated the euro area recession at a time when fiscal policies were becoming restrictive. in addition, the issue of the fragmentation of the euro area is acutely raised by the increase in spreads, now over 200 basis points, reflecting the sub-optimality of the area and the highly variable confidence of investors in the various sovereign debt. the wider the gap, the more difficult it becomes for highly indebted countries to finance their debt. in conclusion, the euro area is entering a highly turbulent zone, and savers and employees must not be sacrificed on the altar of a change in monetary policy. european growth is struggling to recover from its pre-crisis trajectory and the ecb can no longer take the risk of another lost european decade.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, the report on the welfare of farm animals which is before our house today is an evaluation report. it is intended to help our institution formulate proposals for the development of existing european regulation. he wants nothing more and nothing less. animal welfare is a sensitive issue. some would prefer to turn a blind eye to this growing social concern and avoid talking about it. they want us to do nothing at all, not even try to understand the issue. others, on the contrary, are fighting it, denouncing what they consider to be a lack of action, promoting new practices - often inappropriate - and calling for the abolition of others, if not simply the abolition of livestock farming. they expect a lot from us, they observe us and even sometimes they take notes. we're not on one side or the other. we are, for the vast majority of this parliament, the doers, the actors, the ones whose responsibility it is to propose ways forward; the question is not whether we should prioritize animal welfare or whether we should make progress, because of course we always have to, but rather - and this is more difficult - how we are making progress. i would like to thank very sincerely the rapporteurs from the other groups, with whom i had the pleasure of working, for their commitment and their largely constructive attitude. i think we have succeeded in presenting useful work which i hope parliament will adopt and which will feed into future legislation. we have relied on facts, and first of all on a study conducted by parliament's research service, a documented study based on interviews, and the lessons learned were telling. i have drawn from it some of the convictions which are at the heart of the report we are discussing today, which was largely supported by the committee on agriculture and enriched, of course, by contributions from the committee on the environment. there are four points i would like to stress, because they seem to me to be the foundation of our message. the first is that there will be no further progress in farmed animal welfare until we have succeeded in harmonising the implementation and controls of the rules that already exist. to raise the bar before we have achieved this would, i believe, be self-indulgent, but would condemn all efficiency and would undermine our common market. we need to increase our surveillance capabilities. let us first support the member states and economic actors. let's expand the range of species covered by the regulation; many of them deserve specific and tailored rules. then we can look at our ambitions upwards. the second point is that we will achieve nothing by trying to act against the farmers, who are, whether some people like it or not, the first actors in the matter, actors who must be encouraged to continue to take good care of their animals, which most of them are already doing. this is what we must start by recognising, by rewarding these efforts, even when they go beyond the regulations. the third point, which is related, is that for this recognition and remuneration we need a labelling system which is less anarchic than today, more structured, which is based on specifications of serious nature, but which leaves room for private initiatives, by member states, sectors, ngos or joint actors. why not consider a mandatory common base and put in place safeguards to avoid drifting and unreasonable requests? consumers want readability, but not too much regulation. the fourth and final point is that the continent, which has already rightly chosen to adopt the most demanding standards in the world, will only be able to continue to meet them if it is able to enforce them also on imported products. otherwise, once again, we can boast of being demanding, but our consumers will not benefit from it, and we will only have exported the problem. as a responsible person, i am convinced that we must integrate these principles if we are to really make progress. i want to continue to improve animal welfare, that's for sure. this is the wish of a growing number of citizens. this is the wish of the vast majority of farmers and of 100% of those who are starting out today. we will only achieve this ambition if we apply the principles of harmonisation, recognition, fair valuation and reciprocity.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, dear madam european ombudsman, i would like to begin by congratulating you and thanking you on behalf of many of my fellow citizens who are eager for honesty, transparency and who still believe in justice. while mrs von der leyen said just a few days ago that she wanted the member states to consider a vaccine requirement for everyone, the commission continued to hide the text messages exchanged between her and the ceo of pfizer during the negotiation of the famous contract for the purchase of the vaccine, which was 90% caviar. at the same time, pfizer plans to sell $54 billion of covid-19 vaccines and pills by 2022. why this lack of transparency on the part of the commission? why this contempt? why this disconnect with the citizens? why so much secrecy in brussels, when they don't hesitate to hug each other in washington and congratulate themselves? go on, my dear lady. this is a serious matter, and we're with you. some people do not want to see this convoy of freedoms, this peaceful and civil demonstration in brussels, strasbourg and paris, even though it is also the consequence of this contempt and the opacity of our european institutions. thank you. you have our full support.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. mr president of the commission! i think this is the time when we should be talking about the most important things and the problems that the advocate faces in his work. i feel that one of the problems that the ombudsman should be addressing is the issue of the democratic deficit, the issue of the lack of transparency of the decision-making process in the european union. i remember that in the 2004-2009 term, the plan was d as democracy d as democracy because it was considered that there was not enough democracy in the decision-making process. after a dozen years, we can say the same thing. i think it should be very clear that the ombudsman is also in favour of making these processes more transparent, otherwise there will be a deficit of trust in the european union among our voters and taxpayers.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, let me begin by thanking our colleague for his excellent report. madam ombudsman, i would also like to thank you sincerely for your work, which highlights the administrative dysfunctions of our institutions. the report is a window into your substantial work, which gives the european union the basis for guaranteeing transparency, access to documents, and holding the institutions accountable to european citizens. as you may know, madam, i am not a professional politician. politics came into my life as i struggled, along with others, every day to make it fairer. as soon as i took up my seat in this house, i promised myself that i would give europe back to the people. but as you have shown, the road ahead is long. what about the invisible text messages between the commission president and the ceo of pfizer? were they engaging, informal or personal? the doubt is there. what if, as a new obligation is emerging all over europe, we are still being denied access to vaccine contracts? the doubt is there. and what about the council which, with a wave of its hand, and still without our having access to the negotiations in progress, can call our votes into question? is the fact that parliament is the only democratically elected institution in our union not enough to give it a say? the doubt is there. our institutions, our work and the whole european project exist only because of the trust that citizens place in us. this confidence will only be achieved by being completely transparent, not only with each other but also - and above all - with them. so let us be indignant and rebel against these shadows! let us demand and demand clarity in our administrations, because only in this way can we, madam president, and colleagues, return the european union to its citizens.
madam president, commissioner, madam ombudsman, the european ombudsman must continue his fight more than ever. european democracy should never be taken for granted, and the european ombudsman is one of its guarantors. there is no democracy without transparency. citizens must be able to participate in democratic life. access to all information in all languages must be guaranteed. the right to information cannot be compromised, and europeans must know what is being done in their name. nor is there democracy without the rule of law. the close monitoring of european funds in each member state and the observance of ethical rules are pillars of european democracy. it is up to us, together with you, madam ombudsman, to ensure that democracy is compatible with the rule of law. a brave democracy is willing to face its weaknesses, and you force us to do so. madam ombudsman, you know and you can see again tonight that the european parliament is on your side.
madam president, i want to thank our ombudsman, emily o’reilly, and her office for her tireless fight for transparency. transparency and information strengthen the rights of our citizens and let me remind you that without access to documents, there is no information and there is no transparency. and this becomes even more true in covid times. giving access to documents increases the accountability of all eu institutions. and the council, which is absent today, has the worst record of transparency. we, as the european parliament, must continue to keep up our pressure together with the european ombudsman, with national parliaments and with the civil society organisations to change this. our call for council transparency is nothing abstract; it is also a demand from citizens. this becomes very clear in the citizens recommendations in the framework of the conference on the future of europe. eu transparency law is now over 20 years old, dates from a pre-social media and pre-smartphone era, it needs to be modernised, and it needs to be updated. the commission must adapt this outdated regulation. let me finish by thanking emily o’reilly once more for being a real influencer of change. and i also want to thank our rapporteur ms evi and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done in the committee on petitions (peti).
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i really would like to thank the honourable members of the european parliament for their important contributions and i would say that mr jahr opened with and ms bischoff concluded with what i would describe as universal praise and admiration for the work of ms o’reilly as the european ombudsman and her office, as she described it, a small one but with a big mandate, and i totally agree with that description. i also would like to underline at the conclusion of this debate that the commission constantly strives to ensure a very high level of good administration, as called for by mr saliba and many other speakers. and i also would like to reassure all of you that we are totally committed to the right of good administration as laid down in the article 41 of the eu’s charter of fundamental rights. i agree with all of you who have been highlighting the fact that all members of our society who interact with the commission, the european parliament and other institutions, because the council was referred to on several occasions – it doesn’t matter if they are individual citizens, companies, associations or ngos – all of them have the right to expect from us transparency – as was underlined by ms strugariu and mr czarnecki – accessibility and, of course, proper management. our close and constructive cooperation with the european ombudsman helps us to provide citizens with very high administrative standards, which are based, in particular, on the principles of non—discrimination, impartiality, objectivity and also fairness. in this context, the commission fully respects the rights of citizens to receive a response to their letters in their language, as underscored by mr vincze, but also the right to be heard and to submit observations and the right to receive a justified decision within a reasonable timeframe. the report and the resolution of the european parliament on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2020 contributes to this by highlighting the areas where our institutions do well and where they can improve. as i already mentioned in my introductory remarks, the commissioner will assess in detail the issue raised in your resolution during today’s debate and will respond in the next few weeks. several of the honourable members, madam president, also raised the issue of the text messages. i can confirm that the ombudsman has sent the recommendation with regard to this matter to the commission on 26 january of this year. the commission is currently looking into this recommendation and will reply to the ombudsman by 26 april of this year, which is the date by which the ombudsman asked for a reply. so once again, ms o’reilly, thank you very much for excellent work, for your great cooperation with the european commission and other institutions, and also for the support which obviously will carry??? not only from this house but also from the european citizens. and thanks to your tireless work, i am sure that together we can provide better services to our citizens. thank you very much, madam president.
the ombudsman the uachtaráin, thank you all for your kindness, and your questions. i have no hesitation in answering any questions, but my office is always open to answer any questions you may have. normally at these hearings, there are a variety of issues that are brought up, but i think there was one dominant theme this evening and that is transparency in the decision making process. and i think possibly the reason for that is not just the complaints or the investigations that we've dealt with, but also because i think over the last two years we've seen the concrete importance of transparency. when so many frightened citizens looked as never before to their administrations, including the eu administration, for reassurance, they needed to know what decisions were being made to keep their families, themselves, their communities safe. but administrations also needed a citizen. they also looked to citizens for support in that work, so that they could be encouraged to take often very difficult measures to keep them safe and later to accept vaccines. so it wasn't just the citizens that needed the administration. the administration needed the support and trust of citizens to remain effective. and transparency is obviously one of the major keys in achieving that. as mep angel said, the regulation that governs access to eu documents is now over 20 years old and arguably no longer fit for purpose. the recent issue of the text messages -- a case we're involved in at the moment, as you probably know -- i think highlights the fact that we now communicate in a very different way than we did 20 years ago. and i think this should be recognized because i think people possibly arising out of this case or similar cases are realizing that this is problematic. it's not just problematic for citizens, it's problematic for the administration because there are obviously going to be greater calls for transparency in these areas of new communication. so i think that it's up to you to do what you will, obviously. but i think there's a big argument there for at least bringing the regulation 1049/2001 up to date.
as a matter of fact, i would like to thank again the parliament and the petitions committee for the important things that they have done for my office. it's more important than anything else in my life. i hope to see you in strasbourg in the coming weeks.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 february 2022.
the next item is the debate on the report by morten petersen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a european strategy for offshore renewable energy (2021/2012(ini)) (a9-0339/2021).
the rapporteur. i would like to thank the president-in-office. sea wind is the key to achieving our climate goals. if we are to have any hope of meeting our climate goals, it will require more renewable energy - much more. in fact, we're so busy, it's almost unbelievable. the un climate panel has told us that it is urgent, and that even if all countries' climate pledges were to be met, global emissions would still rise more than the paris agreement pledges. the international energy agency has told us that there is a pathway to climate neutrality in 2050. but that road is narrow, and with each passing day of inaction, it becomes more difficult and the path becomes narrower. we simply have to raise our climate ambitions. renewable energy and energy efficiency are crucial in the green transition. we need to roll out all available, clean and efficient technologies as quickly as possible, and that's not least of all offshore wind. the potential is enormous. we have good prospects in europe. in fact, europe and european companies are world leaders in offshore wind. we are seeing in these years islands of energy being brought from desks and science fiction plans into real life and into action. we like to say in my country, denmark - i like to boast of being the world's first energy island - now they are making us rank-champions in belgium. it's a good race, because we're gonna be in a lot of trouble if we're gonna make it. the report we are discussing here tonight has three main areas. firstly, the infrastructure. infrastructure needs to be developed and improved to accommodate the increased production of green electricity at sea and on land. the challenges of infrastructure also require member states to increase their cooperation in the planning and development of offshore wind, particularly across borders. secondly, we need a well-functioning electricity market in the eu - a genuine internal market. we don't have that today. here we can see that the exchange of electricity is stalled across national borders. we're going to need to look at market design to make sure that developers have the right incentives to build out at a pace. finally, thirdly, we have the incredibly difficult, complicated issue of permits. it is simply taking too long today, and if we do not do it differently and faster, then we will not reach the finish line. it's very simple. i think it's fair to say that what got us here won't get us where we want to be in 2030. that is why we propose in the report that time limits be introduced for the issue of permits. in other words, when all the documents have to be submitted, you could imagine a back end, a time limit, so that developers know what they are dealing with. it was perhaps the most difficult part of the report to get the important and sensitive part in place. i'm glad you made it. the maritime plans, the so-called msps, must be coordinated with the member states' national energy and climate plans, so that the right hand knows what the left hand is doing and to avoid delays in all permitting matters. let me end by thanking the rapporteurs of the political groups. i would say that it has been a pleasure to work with all the groups on such an important subject. i look forward to the debate here in strasbourg one late evening and i look forward to putting the strategy into practice with you.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, i am very pleased to be here today. we are moving ever closer to 2050, and decarbonising our energy system becomes more important with every passing moment. we have set out a clear vision of how we believe we should get there, and offshore renewable energy is a big part of that vision. choosing the right path means hearing all viewpoints, learning from different perspectives, and that’s why i am so pleased to be here discussing the own-initiative report on the european offshore energy strategy. i want to thank morten petersen for the hard work in preparing it. i can see that many of its recommendations are in line and support the commission’s own strategy. to kick off this session, i’d like to frame our discussion today by speaking about the commission’s thinking behind this important part of energy in europe. let’s start with simple facts. the eu is a global powerhouse for offshore renewables. offshore wind is not at the beginning of its journey here, it’s a major technology: one with immense potential, potential to help us meet our 2030 and 2050 targets, potential to foster competitive energy prices and potential to boost european industry. despite publishing a dedicated strategy on offshore energy with some of the most ambitious targets globally, the eu still needs to overcome a number of challenges facing us. having read morten petersen’s report carefully, i was pleased to see that the commission and parliament identify the same opportunities and challenges for the offshore energy sector in the eu. the parliament rightly pointed out a number of issues and needs for the commission to address. let me take them one by one right now. first, an impact assessment on the economic and socio-economic impacts of offshore energy. this is a very useful comment which we will explore, i think, in the horizon europe programme, including through coal specifically tailored to the development of offshore energy. second, how can renewable sources pave the way for renewable hydrogen? as you know, the decarbonised gas market package highlights renewable sources, including offshore, as a priority to ramp up renewable hydrogen production. third, an eu-wide landfill ban on decommissioned wind turbine blades by 2025. circularity is a constant consideration of our work. the commission is already taking it into consideration in horizon europe goals. and fourth, tailoring horizon europe to the development of renewables. this is another area already considered in the strategy and currently under discussion when it comes to the ongoing shaping of the 2023-24 horizon europe goals. there is much to do, but we should also take a moment to realise how far we have come already. it’s been just over a year since we adopted the offshore energy strategy, and even in that short time we have achieved quite a lot in each of the key areas. on infrastructure, last december the european parliament and the council found agreement on the new regulation of ten-e. it contains critical provisions to steer the coordinated development of the needed offshore and onshore infrastructure at sea-basin level. the agreement contains a provision inviting member states to come forward with clear commitments on the offshore renewable energy to be deployed within each sea basin by 2050. those commitments will include immediate steps in 2030 and 2040 and will be in line with the national energy and climate plans and the potential of each sea basin. i hope the european parliament will endorse the agreement reached between the co-legislators so that it can enter into force in spring. on legislation, we have been working hard to make sure that we have the best conditions to enhance the eu’s role in offshore and onshore renewables. and i already mentioned the fit for 55 package, and with the work that has been done to revise the renewables directive, we are creating these conditions. and this proposal is currently under discussion in the european parliament and the council. and on permitting, we know that we face one of the key challenges for project development in the eu, so we are doing everything we can to make sure that member states coordinate, streamline and facilitate the process. and we want to be able to look back at the current system, which is often overly complex and excessively long, as a relic of the past. the first step towards achieving that is correctly transposing the renewable energy directive, because unfortunately, most member states have not fully transposed the directive, even though the deadline was last july. so i should also mention here that we intend to issue, by this summer, further guidance on good practices to address overly-complex and excessively-long administrative procedures. and last, on cooperation and consensus: in october we organised a conference for government ministries and public authorities to look more closely at the state of affairs for the offshore energy sector. from investments to public acceptance and from permitting to pre-planning, many of the most significant issues for large-scale deployment were dealt with at the same time, and i know that the participation of morten petersen and the chair of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) mr buşoi was highly appreciated. so, ladies and gentlemen, i think what we can all agree on is that much has been done but there is still much left to do, and these are some of the most pressing issues identified in the commission’s strategy and addressed in the parliament report. so thank you for listening and i’m looking forward to the discussions.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by congratulating our colleague, mr morten petersen, on his work. i have always compared coastal and island territories to ships which must seek energy independence with what nature has to offer. i am therefore in favour of all forms of energy at sea: those which use wind energy, as is the case here, but also those which use the inexhaustible energy of the sea, its heat and its currents, especially for the outermost regions of the union, in an approach of land-sea energy mix. however, i have two essential conditions for their development: firstly, the imperative need to consider their deployment in the context of the planning of the maritime space based on ecosystems and uses; secondly, the imperative need to go beyond the simple reduction of environmental and social impact, by seeking co-benefits for ecosystems as well as for trades. finally, i would like to stress the rarity of our debates on the sea, which is in danger, even though it is our future - we see it here with energy. all european citizens are concerned with its safeguarding. so, in continuity with the one ocean summit, the 2022 international conferences are an opportunity to act. i therefore call for the ocean to be brought into this house. i call for a debate on our ocean, which is our common good, before the united nations lisbon conference in june.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, hydroelectric, wind, tidal and osmotic plants: the potential of energy at sea is immense and manifold. it is a fact: if the european union is to achieve its climate objectives, it must deploy renewable energy on a massive scale, especially at sea. one of the great advantages is that at sea the wind, tides and currents are almost continuous. that is why i welcome the report we are adopting here this week, which proposes a coordinated acceleration of the deployment of renewable energy at sea. we call for a minimum target of 60 gw of installed offshore capacity in europe by 2030. we only have 12 today. to do that, we're going to have to simplify the processes. waiting 15 years to build a wind turbine is not sustainable. the climate crisis is not waiting. in addition, these offshore energies will represent a very large number of quality jobs that cannot be relocated along our european coasts. finally, the development of these renewable energies at sea will play a full part in our european strategic energy autonomy, because all the energy we produce on our coasts will be as much energy as we do not have to import from elsewhere.
madam president, madam commissioner, this afternoon, as i was coming, i saw on twitter that i had been called by someone who said to me: 'but you are going to discuss renewable marine energy when we have been waiting for ten years for the first wind turbine to be able to go out to sea in france? that is true, whereas in denmark, in the case of rapporteur morten petersen, there have probably been some twenty years of rotating and supplying energy. well, perhaps that is the point of this debate, the point of the excellent report that our colleague has produced. the point is to debate, to exchange, to see what is working well, what has not worked well, how best to achieve these fields, how best to develop this ambition, and this, of course, with those who live from the sea. we owe it to them to take this time to make sure that the choices we make do not interfere with their way of being, their way of living and their way of working. however, we must also be aware that we owe it to the climate and to humanity to be able to go and look for these renewable energy sources. we have a great potential here on our coasts, one of the world's first potentials for renewable marine energy. we also owe it to the oceans, because nothing would be worse than an ocean that warms up.
i'm the reporter. madam president, madam commissioner, dear stella, cancer is an individual and social injustice: cancer affects us all; yet we are totally unequal in the face of disease. survival rates can vary by up to 25% from one eu country to another, and this is unacceptable. it is our duty to initiate the reduction of these inequalities, supported by the creation of an inequality register. this is the priority that has guided the work of the beca committee, and i thank its many members who are here today. we must respond to the expectations of the millions of citizens concerned. we must respond to the demands for progress of the families and carers of the 1.3 million people who die of cancer every year, including 6,000 children. the complexity of the disease warrants research of excellence in connection with mission europe, an independent and multidisciplinary research supported by european universities and the european health data area. we also have to respond to the 4 million patients who need effective treatment today and now. on the vaccine model, we propose the virtuous circle of equitable access to available and affordable medicines: joint evaluation, joint procurement, concerted action to tackle shortages and the development of innovations through hera. this europe of medicine is particularly necessary in orphan therapeutic situations, that is to say, rare cancers, the foremost of which is childhood cancer. equitable access to screening and care is part of the collective commitment of member states on shared quality criteria, for example on care facilities and on support for families and carers. we also owe a response to the 12 million survivors facing the difficult return to normal life. we make strong recommendations for improving the quality of life and reintegration, for example by establishing the right to be forgotten in all eu countries. we must respond to the clearly expressed desire of future generations to be informed and to be protected. it is essential to develop health education. this is the field of prevention, the implementation of which should prevent four out of ten cancers and six out of ten deaths through effective, courageous and science-based interventions. we share the commission's ambitious prevention objectives on tobacco, on alcohol, on readable and fact-based nutritional information, and on the equitable development of hpv vaccination. we will build on the green deal for europe to support healthy food, air quality and the fight against environmental carcinogens, particularly at work. finally, we owe a response to governments, who are faced with the growing economic burden of the disease: a budget of €4 billion and coordination of efforts between member states through the networking of the 27 national cancer plans. finally, non-binding recommendations should be the subject of a commitment by the 27 member states to a european charter of the rights of cancer patients. the trio's declaration in paris shows the way to this collective, solidarity-based and necessary commitment.
madam president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this report, which is essential to the fight against cancer. let me tell you about a cancer that is not very well known to the general public: triple negative breast cancer. the latter accounts for 15% of cases, or about 9,000 people per year, with a median survival in metastatic conditions of 14 months. the testimonies i received were terrible: "madam, you have triple negative breast cancer. there is no targeted therapy. we're going to try a protocol and hope you'll respond to this treatment. if not, we have no solution. so, going to the united states or germany to benefit from innovative treatments, creating crowdfunding jackpots because the sums are astronomical , it can no longer last. no matter what stage of the disease, no matter what criteria are given: all women must be able to benefit from approved innovative treatments, trial rights and, above all, appropriate and supported care throughout the european union, not just in certain countries. i would remind you that access to health and care is a common good, which everyone should be able to enjoy. all these women want to live, to flourish professionally and to develop personally. that is why we must act quickly, because the disease, for all these women, does not wait.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i would like to begin by saying thank you. thank you, commissioner, for accompanying us throughout this work. thank you to all the members of the beca committee there are still a few in the room who have inspired, who have supported this work. thank you to the experts and scientists who have listened and listened. and then, if i may, i would like to thank my patients, who have inspired me for over thirty years, those i have treated, those i am treating and those i will treat. we have produced a report which i hear meets many expectations. but today is not the end, it is the beginning, because everything is still to be done. we have to work on the legislative proposals that will emerge from this report - the first, in two days' time, on the revision of the carcinogens directive. we still have to go on - and many of you have said this - to rely on scientific data to inform and protect citizens. prevention is the key. the easiest cancer to cure is the one you don't catch. and then, minister, dear clément, we'll have to put this plan into action. to implement it, we need the collective and united commitment of the member states, especially on all measures which are recommendations and which, without your support, without your strong involvement, will remain a dead letter. and finally, i want to leave you with one final message: what we've done for cancer prevention, we'll do for all other chronic diseases. in this way we will be able to improve the health - the good health - of our fellow citizens. thank you again for this rich and lively debate, and let us continue together.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr high representative, the summit between the union and africa this week is, as you said, a new opportunity to build a new partnership together. but we must understand the wounds of the past to build a common future, and our objective as the european union, but also as european leaders, will be first and foremost to convince the african peoples, whose wounds are still alive. i shall speak of slavery, the slave trade, brutal colonization, suppressed or even manipulated independence, domination or condescension, exploitation of resources without return for the populations, or the persistent racism, today in europe, towards the diasporas, but also towards newcomers. understanding also means avoiding the same mistakes in the future, and this in order to face common challenges. you mentioned: economic recovery after covid-19, combating inequality through education, health and employment, promoting sustainable investment, combating climate change, democracy, social and environmental rights, as well as peace and security. there are means to do all this: €150 billion in investment. what are we talking about? what is the leverage effect of these investments? what sectors are we talking about? are there sectors of transformation that will actually allow development in the countries? will companies respect the duty of vigilance, i.e. respect the social and environmental rights of people? on all these questions, we do not have clear answers from the council and the commission at the level of the european parliament today. a new partnership, all right; but, please, let's not rebuild from the mistakes of the past, but let's do better than we did in the past.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, renewing the partnership between europe and africa is the challenge of this summit. the time has come for both continents to speak truth, frankness and transparency, each taking its own responsibility. we must be aware that europe is no longer africa's main interlocutor. if we want to continue to have this privileged relationship with her, we must change our method. flexibility, speed and efficiency: this is how we use our financing instruments to support african solutions. it is also up to africa to formulate its demands, to propose its solutions and, above all, to choose the development model it wants for its people. brutality, predation, neo-colonialism: the methods used by some of africa's partners are not ours. these are not the values of twenty-first century europe. we propose to build together a partnership centred on human relations, an area of peace and prosperity for our peoples, a euro-african geostrategic area with all its weight on the international scene, a mutually beneficial partnership that respects everyone. the summit will provide an opportunity to exchange both speeches and methods. we have to take them.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, mr high representative, last week in dakar, ursula von der leyen announced more than €150 billion for africa over the period 2021-2027, to which is added €29 billion for sub-saharan africa under the new neighbourhood and cooperation instrument. what's the return on all that money? trade between the european union and africa has been stable for ten years. at the same time, trade between china and africa is growing so fast that beijing could soon overtake us. diplomatic tensions are increasing. we are now being driven out of mali, where our soldiers have been dying for years fighting jihadism, at the behest of african leaders. finally, in the field of migration, the european union refuses to accept any pressure to demand that africa take back its many illegal migrants. without a firm commitment from african countries, the €150 billion announced, equivalent to one fifth of the european recovery plan, does not appear to be a balanced partnership but a real gift. relations between the european union and africa are a subject close to my heart. i also authored, with my mauritian colleague sangeet fowdar, a report in 2018 by the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. i advocated two requirements in particular. first, it is imperative to combat rampant corruption. if we allocate funds, they must be injected directly into the real economy and into the construction of road, electricity and digital infrastructure, the existence of which is - as we know very well - the prerequisite for economic development. the intermediaries must be kept to a minimum so that the money actually reaches its destination. finally, the payment of this money must be conditional on a real control of the migratory flows to europe and the return to their countries of the illegal immigrants present on our soil. if we help africa, it's also so that africans can stay.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i share mr high representative / vice—president’s positive approach to africa, and welcome the initiatives to be presented during the summit. i also note positive developments like, for example, possibilities for gas supplies from nigeria to even europe, diversifying our sources. but my concerns are predominantly about the security situation in africa, from the horn of africa via sahel to the gulf of guinea, and from tunisia to mozambique. during the summit, it is going to be a very important topic. and willing to enforce the role of the african union, i know that countries like mali, guinea, burkina faso and sudan are not to be present during the summit; we have to find solutions for the poor situation there. after the coup d’états and suspension from the african union, 11 of our missions and operations are in africa, and certainly we have to reinforce them.
madam president, please. the eu-africa summit is a long-awaited event that has been postponed. since the release of the africa strategy in march 2020, the pandemic has exposed us, our african partners, to global interdependence. while covid-19 has reshaped the immediate needs, the fundamental challenges facing our partner countries remain unchanged: growing instability, educational inequalities, investment and trade difficulties, lack of jobs, difficulties in agricultural production, the effects of climate change, weak governance systems. we need to see that these are the factors that are driving the migration of young africans. whatever we do, creating security and addressing the root causes of migration must be the guiding principles of our actions. the union must recognise that we can only make progress where our african partners are open to change. mr. high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. african leaders do not and cannot expect the union to try to tackle growing poverty with aid. our partners are calling for the eu to support the continent in being able to overcome its own challenges. the union should help our african partners to exercise their full self-responsibility by supporting good governance.
madam president, mr high representative, we are indeed faced with an opportunity to renew our commitment to the african continent. i agree with your positive view: the partnership between the european union and africa needs renewal. the donor-receiver model has long since been obsolete, and we must create a more strategic, renewed partnership, on an equal footing, listening to our african partners frankly and sincerely, knowing that many of the challenges we face are shared and that we cannot face them alone. we are facing an unprecedented common challenge: the covid-19 pandemic. we need to move from vaccines to vaccination, and that's why we need to remove all the barriers that have prevented full vaccination in africa. security, peace and security. we need to address this issue and we must seek actions with more shared responsibility between the african union and its regional organizations, knowing that strengthening democratic institutions is the only way to advance peace.
madam president, mr high representative, the au-eu summit must be an opportunity to renew the africa-europe partnership. our young people share a search for meaning, a need for freedom, mobility, hope and fair redistribution, a concern about climate change, but also a common history and its share of gaping wounds. they deserve a real political dialogue, not a lot of small initiatives here and there, without overall coherence. the values of human rights and the rule of law are legitimate and longstanding demands of african civil society itself. our youth deserve systemic cooperation on political reforms, leading to democratic and inclusive governance, a guarantee of sustainable stability. this summit must also be a way out of the pupil-teacher relationship. he must understand that our two institutions have much to learn from each other, as equals. finally, there is the sacred "stability" so often praised. a stable country, what is it? is it when the state oppresses its people, silences the press and jails opponents? and stability for whom? stability for freedom and the press or stability for the elites, corruption and the police?
madam president, with the upcoming eu-africa summit, we are talking about a renewed partnership with new dynamism, growth, shared prosperity and stability. the history and policy of the european union towards africa, however, dissociate itself from these claims and do not allow us to ignore the fact that the european union regards the african continent as a geostrategic board where resources, markets and zones of influence are contested. what about the european union's role in blocking the withdrawal of vaccine patents during the pandemic? the european union's strategy for africa remains based on the promotion of instruments and means dedicated to so-called development, as a dimension of a broader strategy aimed at promoting interference, domination and aggravating political, economic, ideological and military dependence. africa and the african peoples do not need you to impose models of political and economic organization on them. they need effective development cooperation based on respect for national sovereignty, political and economic independence, the right of each people to decide its present and future, to define and build its state and its own development project.
madam president, africa is very important to the union, and the stability and prosperity of this neighbouring continent, especially the countries of the southern mediterranean and the sahel, are essential for europeans. most african countries face weak institutions and the rule of law and precarious public services. health, education, institutional strengthening and job creation for the many young people should be priorities for african leaders and also highlights areas of our cooperation with them. european investment and increased trade in goods and services with african countries should contribute to the continent's economic development and employment, and will also benefit europe and the management of migration flows. africa needs to be the focus of our attention. the forthcoming eu-africa summit is a unique opportunity - as the high representative said - to strengthen our relations as china's presence continues to grow and russia's influence grows. development requires security, overcoming conflicts and also the terrorist threat. the european union must also contribute to these objectives.
madam president, mr high representative, africa is our news. continued donations of vaccine doses through the covax mechanism, deployment of the global gateway in senegal last week, ratification of the post-cotonou agreement, eu-africa summit: the eu finally seems to be realising the importance of our partnership with africa. the french presidency's organisation of this summit must therefore be the concrete expression of a strong and balanced relationship between our two continents. the requirement for a win-win partnership between europeans and africans must mean, among other things, the achievement of our sustainability goals. it must also enable economic and social development to benefit all. finally, it must be based on respect for the universal values of human rights. we europeans must promote and encourage investment in africa, investment which respects social and environmental requirements: this will be one of the fundamental issues of this summit.
madam president, mr high representative, africa must be a priority continent for the european union. first of all, we are only 14 kilometres apart and our interests are not only commercial and economic but also political, migratory and security. we know that in the canaries. the european union now has a great opportunity with the creation of the african continental free trade area to attract more investment, lay the foundations for its necessary industrialization and create jobs for the young. this will depend on our ability to mobilise investment in strategic sectors, trade exchanges and more business presence in the region. but none of this will be possible without stability, institutional and security. legal security and also physical security. you have to keep your promises. and i am thinking of the fisheries agreement between the european union and senegal, which has been repeatedly violated. africa needs investments in r&d. multinational companies already have a significant presence. the challenge now is to support the presence of european smes more strongly. i hope that the eu-africa summit will successfully address all these challenges and issues.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's initiative for a new partnership between the eu and africa is right. the partnership also requires a critical examination of the eu's trade policy with africa. we know that the so-called economic partnership agreements, which the eu has pushed for over the last 20 years, have been and are very controversial in many african countries. that is why only one regional agreement has entered into force. this should give us a chance to think hard about what changes we should be seeking here. so far, the agreements have been the eu's attempt to enforce free trade. this one-sided orientation must be overcome. we need additional binding agreements, for example on mutual support in the fight against climate change and on ensuring food security. for all this we need a joint investment drive which allows for a significant increase in private investment on the one hand, but also ensures large public investment in infrastructure on the other.
president. - mr president, i have just received a request from the president of the council to take part in the debate on the report by mr de gucht. the spirit which should permeate these relations is the one which is also expressed in our group's africa paper, namely, investing more in a partnership which balances interests and values for the benefit of partners of equal value. i have repeatedly called for it and i will do so again today: africa deserves a better coordinated approach through greater cooperation between the transatlantic and other like-minded international partners. in our new global gateway strategy, africa must be the priority. the basic needs, but also the immense potential of this continent, require an optimal alignment between the global gateway strategy on the one hand and the build back better strategy of the g7 on the other. for too long we have been watching the future of africa be determined by china and russia, investing in the continent as if it were a purely economic and political wing. let me conclude with the importance of security as a theme in our relations with africa, as a basic condition for progress there, but also for our stability here. i am certainly in favour of more resources being devoted to security in the countries of our eastern partnership, with ukraine in the lead. but i am not one of those who think that this should be at the expense of our commitments to africa.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will try to answer in spanish so that my answer is more fluent. there have been 42 interventions. you will understand that it is completely impossible for me to answer each and every one of you. perhaps these debates should be made more interactive so that i can turn them into a real debate, but since they are not, i will try to point out some fundamental aspects of what has been said here this afternoon. a lot of things have been said. many of them i agree with, others i certainly do not. i would like to say that the commission has not been able to give a clear answer to the question of the question of the nuclear safety of the european union. frankly, when one hears these things one cannot help but be surprised at the limited or highly ideologized approach to some problems. i also heard some african members of parliament say that we should keep our cheque, that africa has no need of it. that's easy to say when you live like you live. but i am sure that many africans do not want us to keep the cheque in our pocket, because for many of them it directly benefits them, improving their living conditions. certainly, we can argue about the effectiveness of aid, whether it is enough - it is certainly not, it is not enough - whether we could manage it better - but that dismissive attitude of saying 'keep your money' is very good when you don't need help, but many african women would not agree with this attitude. because we have improved the lives of many of them, even enabled them to continue living with the help we have given them. so, between the afropesimism and the afroptimism or the contemptuous attitude of some, we have to approach africa from the afro-realism, being very realistic. being very realistic, that's the only way to achieve the ambitious goal we set ourselves. and for starters, we need to stop talking about africa as if africa were a country. africa is not a country, africa is a continent, a continent so big that the united states, mexico, china, japan, india and europe can all fit inside it. and so, let us keep very much in mind the immense diversity of africa, where there are 54 countries, 2,000 languages and a huge opportunity, but also a huge set of problems. let's not talk about africa as a homogeneous entity. it's not a good idea. let us bear in mind that before we tackle the issues of economic growth and trade relations, we must contribute to peace and security and good governance, and that is what many of you have insisted on and i fully agree with. there is no development without security and there is no security without development. the two things are in an intrinsic, inseparable, indivisible dialectical relationship. we have to do our best to make peace, security and good governance drive economic growth, knowing that this cannot be done from a perspective that can be accused of being neo-colonial. because it's easy, relatively easy, to build roads. it's much harder to build institutions that work. we know very well that africa has a huge youth population: 60% of africans are under 25 years old. unless we address the youth and see how we can offer the 30 million young people who enter the labour market in africa every year an opportunity to stay and work in their own country instead of having to emigrate, we will hardly be considered as suitable partners. we have to be aware that this demographic dividend is a wealth, but in the short term it is also a burden. we must make education a fundamental factor in our support for africans. and that's why we're spending so much of that money on education that some people say we'd better keep it. no, we better keep it to ourselves, no. better perhaps to use it better, no doubt, but let's keep it... save the pampered boy's pride, please. we also need to support the energy transition and sustainable development. yes, but we must bear in mind that half the african population has never seen a light bulb, that half the african population has no access to electricity and that they are fighting a hard daily battle to get access to water and food. let us not talk about sustainable development through the prism of the european, who has problems that can be allowed to be considered in their temporal dimension of the medium term, because they are fighting a hard battle every day to survive and need to consume more energy. they need more energy from non-carbon sources, no doubt, but they need a lot more energy and we have to help them with that. just as we also need to help them produce more vaccines and accelerate the current process. a lot has been said about that and i agree with almost everything. it can't be that 90% of the continent is still unvaccinated. but i come from kenya, and in kenya, they recognize that the problem right now is not that they don't have vaccines, because they have them in stock: over a million vaccines in stock that they can't inoculate into the arms of africans, of their citizens, because they don't have a sufficiently developed health system to deal with the logistical problems of vaccination. often it is not the lack of vaccines, but the lack of instrumental capacity to vaccinate. we also have to try to avoid the mistake of thinking that we can impose our agenda on africa. no, we cannot and should not try to impose our agenda. we need to know what are the immediate realities and short-term limitations faced by the vast majority of africans. precisely now, because if anything the covid-19 epidemic has done is to further weaken the institutions of that continent. in the sahel, insecurity has increased and political instability has increased. in the horn of africa, when i arrived in brussels, we saw the promising hope of two democratic transitions underway: in ethiopia and in sudan. and today both countries are deeply destabilized by wars and coups. and several african countries have entered a spiral of debt-driven, sometimes, promises from big countries that come close to them, inviting them to invest in infrastructure that is unsustainable. let's also keep this in mind: the pandemic has increased geopolitical competition in africa. beyond investment opportunities, what is at stake is the set of values and governance models, and it is not clear what model of governance will prevail in africa. there are other global actors, apart from the europeans, whose methods and agendas are very different from ours, and who do not hesitate to use disinformation campaigns and other forms of hybrid warfare to weaken our presence there. so we have to think, as we approach africa, in geopolitical terms, and never better, because we expect that in 30 years there will be a billion more africans. so africa is going to be increasingly a global power, and only a closer partnership with africa will allow us to jointly influence the world and balance our development models, our high per capita income and high age with their low per capita income and low age, because both of these things create an imbalance that will not be sustainable. that's why i don't know if africa is our future. that may be a rhetorical statement, but what i am sure of is that our future depends to a large extent on the future of africa. he may not be the same, but we're definitely depending on him. i am sure that what happens in africa will affect us dramatically, decisively. and there, as in the rest of the world, we must defend the european project, defend it better, by showing that the added value of the european union outweighs the added value of other actors who also want to find their place in africa. and this is the real challenge, ladies and gentlemen.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – there is a real if hidden reluctance to come to terms with the major structural problem that still underlies the europe-africa relationship. colonialist and neo-colonialist roots have not been outgrown nor discarded. in trade and investment with africa, europe continues to impose a framework based on principles that are supposed to ensure transparency in a competitive environment, converging towards free market conditions. this would encourage private direct investment and entrepreneurship, while discouraging corruption and government inertia. meanwhile care is taken to ensure that european raw material resource interests are provided with stability for their operations. the model has not worked well for african economies though it may have benefitted some urban elites. rather than formulaic free trade approaches, what saharan and sub-saharan countries needed and need is an undogmatic tailor-made approach that responds to concrete problems. one in which the european side would really be prepared to make ‘sacrifices’. otherwise, all involved shall continue to play it as it is and has been, on the grounds that jihadism has to be contained. still, i support the follow-up mechanism being proposed to monitor and implement the promises and obligations existing as of now, hoping it will not serve as another smokescreen for another kick up the road.
before i move on to the next item on the agenda, i have an announcement to make. in accordance with rule 241 (4), i would like to inform you that no request for a vote was made on the amendment to the itre committee which was announced to the plenary yesterday at the opening of the sitting. the correction is therefore deemed to be accepted.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr mcallister, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy, and the annual report 2021 (a9-0354/2021). i would remind members that no spontaneous speeches or blue cards will be accepted in any debate at this sitting. as in the past, parliament will also be able to receive contacts from its liaison offices in the member states. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
rapporteur. – mr president, recent international developments and challenges, such as the russian military threat against ukraine, the taliban takeover in afghanistan or the geopolitical consequences of the covid—19 pandemic, have once again reminded us that the european security environment is today more volatile and more complex than ever since the end of the cold war. at the same time, not a single eu member state can respond effectively to today’s global challenges on its own. therefore, as the european union, we need to achieve the strategic goal of developing our global leadership role. there are five takeaways from my report. first, the eu needs to take the lead in promoting global partnerships and a strong multilateral system. we should promote alliances of democracies worldwide and pool our resources to counter malign interferences by authoritarian states. we need to develop our partnerships in the areas of conflict prevention and conflict resolution, and should build alliances based on our green deal. second, we need to improve the way the european union takes decisions in the field of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp). unanimity hampers the eu’s ability to act. i would like to encourage eu member states to switch to qualified majority, at least in some areas of the cfsp. it is also necessary to strengthen the existing eu toolbox, for example, by better combining all assets we have as the eu on the international scene. third, we need to ensure our strategic sovereignty in fundamental areas, including by reducing our dependencies in key technological areas, critical infrastructures and supply chains. it is also about establishing a european defence union. the new strategic compass, which hopefully, high representative, will be adopted at the end of march, should guide the way forward. fourth, we need to develop coherent regional eu strategies for our relations with different parts of the world. in this respect, i welcome the high representative / vice-president’s endeavours to propose clear frameworks with well-defined ambitions and objectives for our relations with different partners in the world, such as the new indo-pacific strategy and the announced joint communication on a partnership with the gulf. fifth, democracy is at the heart of our foreign and security policy. therefore, we need to strengthen the democratic oversight, scrutiny and accountability, as well as the parliamentary dimension, of the common foreign and security policy. i look forward to today’s debate and i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs – and also the team of the high representative – for the really good, constructive and fruitful cooperation during the last weeks while working on this report.
i'm the reporter. mr president, mr high representative, in terms of defence, the year 2021 has in a way marked the end of illusions. the rules-based international order has been weakened, assaulted and undermined. in the east, we have been given a signal, whether russia invades ukraine or not. it is through the threat of conventional war on european soil that vladimir putin is trying to impose his worldview and return to the time of spheres of influence. around the mediterranean, the conflicts in syria and libya have continued unresolved, fuelled by the game of regional powers, which see nothing stopping - not even the suffering of the people. in mali, a failing state faced with jihadist movements has chosen to rely on foreign mercenaries to plunder and harass and to attack europeans who try to help it. in afghanistan, nato has withdrawn in a failure, leaving behind the situation against which it had intervened, at the risk of a humanitarian tragedy. everywhere, including in our democratic societies, cyber-attacks, maliciously orchestrated mass disinformation campaigns and the use of migration flows for destabilising purposes illustrate the emergence of hybrid warfare and require new and strong responses. in summary, the geopolitical environment in the european union has darkened. josep borrell warned us that europe is in danger and urged us to learn to speak the language of power. this year i had the honour of being entrusted with the report on the european union's common security and defence policy. i wanted to take stock of what we have achieved together and to raise a voice, that of the european parliament, to express our expectations regarding the strategic compass, which should be adopted shortly by the council. as far as the csdp is concerned, i would say that we have started many things without always following the logic behind our actions. as regards the european union's civilian and military missions and operations outside our borders, i would first like to commend the commitment and professionalism of those deployed and serving with honour, in often difficult situations. these tasks are numerous, useful and they do their best to carry out the mandates entrusted to them. yet, they often have limitations. insufficiently robust and flexible mandates, and often slow and incomplete generation of forces: there is a long way to go between a council decision and its full and effective implementation on the ground. the establishment of the european peace facility should at least compensate for a long-standing shortcoming: that of training partner armies without providing them with equipment, at the risk of them turning to other partners to meet their needs. so there is a gap to be filled. in particular, we welcome the role that the facility can play for ukraine, providing much-needed material support. today, the very existence of our missions and operations is sometimes called into question. in the car, the omnipresence of wagner's mercenaries prevents our mission from fulfilling its mandate under satisfactory conditions. in mali, the constraints imposed by the ruling junta on the presence of european troops and the arrival - again - of wagner's mercenaries necessarily lead to a reconsideration of the system we have deployed. in somalia, the future of atalanta is uncertain. faced with a less stable and more dangerous world, europe must urgently provide new responses. the strategic compass is timely and i welcome the ambitious and pragmatic approach. my conviction is clear and strong: in the event of a crisis, the european union must have a rapid reaction capability that can be deployed without delay. it must also clarify the command and control functions of the troops acting on its behalf, ensuring that structures are simplified rather than stacked. the aim must be to have a genuine european staff. as to whether the 27 member states should be involved in implementing eu military operations at all times, there is probably more to be done in exploring what the treaties allow for and how to make good use of them. in short, europe must respond faster and better to crises. let's talk about the hybrid war that's already hitting us. the european union has special means of defending itself against it, combining its civil and military powers and encouraging solidarity from all when one of its members is targeted. the same applies to the protection of common or disputed maritime, air, space or cyber areas, where the union can combine its forces to protect its interests. the european union will act whenever it can with its allies, starting with nato. let us put an end to the quarrels about the sex of angels and admit once and for all that the chaos in the world requires both a reinvigorated atlantic alliance and a strengthened european defence. but we will also have to act autonomously whenever necessary, because we cannot continue to expect others to design and implement our security. all this requires less time and resources than political will. i hope that the vote on the csdp report will show that our parliament is not lacking in this and will encourage the council not to disappoint us.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this is a debate taking place because the treaty wants it to take place. the treaty mandates us. article 36 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that we have an annual debate on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy and common security and defence policy annual reports. it’s very a broad issues, so let me try to concentrate on some specific ideas before entering into the debate with you. thank you, first of all, to mr mcallister and ms loiseau for their introductory statements and, in advance, i thank all the contributors to the outstanding work to the parliament on the two reports. the reports i suppose were difficult to draft because 2021 was a very difficult year. we had the pandemic lasting longer than expected, inequality is increasing and geopolitical challenges worsening. we have learned quite a lot of lessons from that. you already mentioned the case of afghanistan, which is one of the key issues at which we have to look in order to take the lessons of what is happening there. this may be the worst case, but there are other cases which are positive. there are positive developments, as you also acknowledge in your report. in the multilateral fora, the european union remains committed to lead the global response to the pandemic and the fight against climate change. on security and defence we developed the strategic compass – thank you for the references that you made to it, ms loiseau. thank you also for the support that i hope parliament will bring to the, strategic compass because it’s the first structured response to the security challenges that we are facing. we can talk a lot, but at the end what matters is the structural responses, and the strategic compass is the first and most important structural response to the defence challenges. we will need to become a powerhouse. yes, we have to continue defending multilateralism certainly, but we have to be a powerhouse and there is not a contradiction between these two objectives. on the contrary, they go hand in hand as you, mr mcallister, and you, ms loiseau, have been saying and it’s well reflected in your reports. overall, i see in your reports four kinds of issues to address. first, on multilateralism and global commons. when i talk about global commons today it means talking about the pandemic and the climate. second, how do we relaunch transatlantic relations? i was talking with the newest us ambassador to the european union the other day about how to reinvigorate transatlantic relations in a context which is certainly marked by the worsening of the ukrainian crisis, the increasing threats by russia and the intensification of the strategic competition of the us with china. third, how do we stabilise our neighbourhood? how do we deepen our engagement with africa? we have been talking about it before. and how do we engage with the indo-pacific? thank you for the french presidency for putting that on the agenda, because the indo-pacific is the place where the history of the world will be written in this century. now, ukraine has concentrated our efforts, our worries on what’s happening in our relationship with russia and the us has had to come back to europe. but the china issue will dominate this century, and the indo-pacific is the place where we will have to be engaging more and more, and we are not enough engaged on that. fourth, the growing weaponisation of interdependency. we believe that interdependency was a way of ensuring peace. the coal and steel community was a way of creating interdependency in order to avoid war. and we have that in our dna. interdependency is a way of avoiding war. but today, interdependency is a weapon, and if you are dependent on me, i use this dependency in order to threaten you. some words about each one of these four issues. first, on multilateralism and global public goods. we advocated for a multilateral response to the pandemic, and we became the biggest donor ever since. let’s not forget it. let’s stop being masochists. we are the biggest donor of vaccines. the biggest exporter, yes, but to export is a commercial issue. you can export to japan, and this is not helping the poor people in the world. but donating is another thing. well on donors, we are the first one. we need to do more, but don’t forget that we are the one who does more in the world. climate: we were also the one who played a steering role launching the global methane pledge to reduce global emissions by at least 30% from 2020 levels by 2030. these are good examples of how the european union should operate internationally, taking initiatives and building coalitions to rally the world. if we don’t build a coalition among others with respect to our efforts on climate change, our efforts will be completely useless because we are only 8% of the global emissions. transatlantic relations. they have been very much revitalised with the biden administration. we don’t necessarily agree on everything. certainly not. but this relation has been key in the current geopolitical context. with respect to the ukrainian crisis and other threats about russia, i want to say clearly that the american administration has been extremely cooperative with us and we have been participating before and after any kind of exchange with russia, both from nato and the us. we have also launched our strategic dialogue about china. on climate, on corporate taxation, on the iran jcpoa, which is at a critical moment, where the balance can go one side or the other – to agreement or to the disagreement – the negotiations we are coordinating in our relationship with the us have been much better, and i hope that it will continue being better in order that this transatlantic relations will also influence positively the other transatlantic relations. the other transatlantic relation is with latin america which, as you know, is also on the other side of the atlantic. your report rightly calls for a stepping up of our relations with latin america. last year, i visited brazil and peru. look, in nine years this was the first high-level visit of the european union to brazil. can you imagine? in nine years the first high-level visit of any european union authority to brazil which is not, by the way, the smallest country in latin america or the least influential country in the world. we have to continue working on that. let me turn to the third point, the africa and indo-pacific neighbourhood. last year, we dealt with challenges related to destabilisation of our periphery. we have deepened our engagement with africa and the indo-pacific. there are a lot of examples that show that we have to face hybrid conflicts, cyber—operations and intimidation, the state hijacking of planes and the blatant manipulation of migrants, like in belarus, energy blackmail by russia against moldova, the use of disinformation as propaganda and, in the military area, as has been said, we have seen in the sahel how the privatisation of armies is posing a new threat to our operations. on the western balkans we must continue working to bring these countries closer to the european future, and at the same time we have to counter the rise of divisive rhetoric and actions, especially in bosnia herzegovina and serbia, kosovo. in the eastern mediterranean we have seen the tensions with turkey easing, we have to recognise this. still, turkish activities in varosha continue to be of concern. then there is a different set of crises that demand tailored responses for ethiopia, mali, sudan, afghanistan, ukraine, belarus. but we have to look at these challenges from an integrated perspective and consider the geopolitics of all the different elements, from climate to migration and digital standards and trade altogether. your report underlined the need for a more coordinated and coherent approach, which is certainly needed, certainly. according to the treaty, i am in charge of giving more coherence to the external policy of the european union, putting together the two pillars – the intergovernmental pillar and the commission pillar. believe me, that’s not an easy task. i am trying to do my best. but first, i have to get unanimity among member states and then have to merge the positions of the council and the commission. you mentioned also the nuclear deal, the jcpoa. last year, we resumed the talks and these talks are at a critical moment. maybe in a couple of weeks we will be able to say where we are definitely. in the southern neighbourhood and africa, the situation in libya has improved, but we have seen a clear regression in tunisia. in south africa, the year was marked by many conflicts. i am not going to talk more about africa. let’s hold the summit to talk. looking east, the report drafted by david mcallister rightly points out that this is a particular challenge to upgrade our relations with the countries in the gulf. the gulf certainly is a critical region for us, and several member states have addressed a letter to me recently asking to increase our relationship with the gulf, to nominate a special envoy, a european union special representative for the gulf area – the gulf not the broader middle east, not focus only on the peace process between israel and palestine, which is stalled unhappily, but on the broader middle east, including all the countries in the gulf, from yemen to iran, syria and iraq. certainly i will propose this to the council. the indo-pacific region i have already talked about. finally, because i don’t want to be any longer, the report by ms loiseau on csdp. i think that there is a growing consensus on what we can say about strategic autonomy, and if you like, better strategic responsibility because at the end the responsibility of the europeans is the strategic compact, which is nothing against nato, but a way of making the european pillar inside nato stronger. the stronger we will be, the stronger will be our alliance. that’s what i explained to the american ambassador the other day in my office. pesco has launched 14 new projects. we have expanded our partnership, enabling the participation of canada and the us, which is a very important step. we have launched in mozambique a new military training and equipment mission, and we are thinking about developing the idea, the concept, of a coordinated maritime presence in the gulf of guinea and in the indo-pacific. there are many, many other issues to talk about. thank you, mr president, for your patience and for your attention. let’s continue our discussion with your interventions.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, for the last 12 years or so, there has been no shortage of alarm bells, the famous wake-up calls: from mali to libya, from syria to ukraine, from american isolationism to russian revisionism, to the unhinged power of china and other regional powers that play with borders and international law, there have been many opportunities for europeans to wake up, to become aware of their strategic weaknesses and to imagine that in the future, in this world that is fragmented for ever, they would have to take their own security into their own hands if they did not want to suffer from serious disillusionment and serious threats. we still have very specific examples of this in these last days. some say - i heard the president of the french republic say that a while ago, right here - that a lot of progress has been made. there is no denying that progress has been made, and we must be objective. there is clearly a common awareness of the dangers. all this will be achieved by the so-called strategic compass, which you mentioned. finally, as has been said, a compass is still an instrument, and the instrument is only as good as the way you use it. political will will be key in this regard. there are still some gaps that are still there. the investments are still not up to par. the european defence fund is a good initiative, but it is under-resourced in relation to ambition. we have operations and missions that lack robustness and are now being totally overrun and overrun, particularly in africa. we have procedures which lack flexibility - article 44 should be able to help us. we have european ambitions which sometimes lack european character. we still have overly strong addictions, excessive addictions and unhealthy addictions. i am one of those - and i am not the only one here - who think that trumpism was not an accident, and that it would still be useful to consider a little more autonomy and independence in what we do between europeans. in short, there is progress to be made. the glass is either half empty or half full. let's not neglect the forces that empty the full part and try to encourage the forces that want to fill the empty part.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, unity is our strongest weapon, and as an example of this, let me commend the high representative for his efforts that embody this unity. our common foreign and security policy works only when it’s truly common, when we are truly united. this is exactly why autocrats are trying to play us apart at the expense of our values, democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and the institutions defending them. we cannot allow this! we must stand strong for the brave people of belarus, for the strong women of afghanistan, for the courageous citizens of ukraine, for our citizens. our values should be at the heart of a truly coherent and integral foreign policy. president, that means it is time to finally do away with unanimity in foreign affairs. the cfsp that we need is one in which our responses are swift, in which our unity not only defends but promotes european values, and in which decisiveness and the prospect of sanctions deter aggression – possible sanctions that, in the case of the russia crisis today, make crystal clear that the price of further aggression will be extremely high, including halting nord stream 2. every year, we say here that this year, these two reports are really important. but this year, it was extremely easy to explain, why a common foreign policy is of the essence. david, thank you for your leadership on this report, and thanks to our colleagues for the cooperation. i hope the council takes a lesson from our efforts.
i am pleased to note that the commission has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i'm going to wait, chairman, until he listens... [in english: can you listen when we speak? thank you.] europe is sleepwalking towards disaster. russia and china are coordinating their strategies. one is about to invade ukraine, the other is waiting for his chance to take taiwan. that is our business too, mr borrell, because both conflicts will strike at the heart of europe. an influx of refugees, a high energy bill and a shortage of semiconductors that's crushing our economy. we don't seem to realize that the politics of brute force means the end of our western model of negotiation, that in a world where international rules no longer apply, europe is completely powerless, that we are becoming the plaything of autocrats like putin, xi and erdoğan. so let us, as my predecessors have said, sound the alarm as a parliament and wake up our european leaders. let's face it, mr. borrell, a rapid reaction force of five thousand men is a piece of cake. we need a real european defence union with, if you ask me, a credible european army backed by a clear common foreign and security policy. let us stop with these national vetoes and send one leader to moscow, mr borrell - one leader, you, the european leader - with a strong mandate in your pocket. the end of the unanimity rule, a common headquarters and a european command structure must be the priorities of the conference on the future of europe. because power needs a counterforce. what we need is a big leap forward. let's make that jump!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to commend this report on the union's common foreign and security policy, and the fact that my group has not tabled any amendments to it reflects our agreement. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mcallister, for that. it's the fruit of good cooperation. my praise of the report is not routine. my group has not always voted for these annual reports. this time we can do it with a clear conscience. i would like to emphasize three points: the report formulates a confident, proactive response to the growing challenges posed by authoritarian potentates like putin and xi. their threat will not vanish into thin air, as the dragon-bear alliance, the dragon-bear cooperation between putin and xi, shows. and their aggressive policy will not go away. but we are far from at the end of our european possibilities. the report also rightly identifies the security challenges posed by climate change. to do this, we need the vision of an eu international policy that sees green transformation as a central task, as well as a fair partnership with all countries of our globe. finally, it is not a matter of embracing the umbilical cord under the slogan of strategic autonomy, but of understanding that the best way to strengthen the eu's strategic sovereignty is to exercise strategic solidarity with democracies and other like-minded countries. the european commission's global gateway initiative will play a key role in this. the eu is, let me say this in conclusion, far from being at the end of its ability to take responsibility for the future of our common planet - if we show both insight and courage.
we should wait a little, because the commissioner's interpretation is not working.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i can hear the interpretation now, but during mr bütikofer's speech i did not hear it. the signal was not in any language during mr bütikofer's speech.
we'll let mr. bütikofer know. i think he's assuming you know what he said. but he might be able to do it again.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, in the huge security crisis posed by russia, in threatening further aggression on ukraine and posing unacceptable security demands vis—à—vis the collective west, we build step—by—step unity and consensus, sometimes with difficulty; yet now we agree to pair a dialogue with deterrence, and building necessary resilience of our countries. we see the value of this approach, and probably the real value of the collective west in facing very aggressive and challenging contemporary powers, like russia and china. by the way, in a recent joint statement signed in beijing, there are provisions for cooperation in military and security areas like, for example, in opposing any notion of the independence of taiwan, or in supporting russia’s security demands vis—à—vis nato, us, and in this way also the eu member states. so we have to be prepared, and in this kind of challenges i question qmv in decision making.
mr president, the cfsp report acknowledges that we are in an era of 'no peace, increasing geopolitical uncertainty, multiple regional conflicts'. he warns that even space will quickly be transformed into a military arena. in other words, we are living in the era of the dispute over the primacy of the united states and china and the european union and russia's quest to maintain their position. the european union's plans for the strategic pipeline and the global gateway, the plans for the european union's strategic autonomy, the euro-army, pesco, the european defence fund, with or without the involvement of nato, reveal the fierce competition for the distribution of markets and spheres of influence that has led to a new, bloody military conflict in ukraine with incalculable consequences for the peoples. the people can oppose the dangerous plans of the european union, the united states and nato, and fight for the disengagement of greece from them, without foreign bases, euro-atlantic missions beyond the borders and equipment for nato needs promoted by the government of the new republic, as the previous ones.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we see the potential of the lisbon treaty in the area of the common foreign, security and defence policy. we experience the reality of this world and the challenges we face. and before we act together, hopefully we will also share a common threat analysis as provided for in the strategic compass. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. we call any new threat or challenge a wake-up call. i hope that the massive russian troop advance around ukraine - the largest in europe since the german wehrmacht surrounded czechoslovakia in 1938 and then blackmailed the munich conference - will indeed raise alarm bells, because it is not ukraine that is threatening russia, or our weapons, but we and the way we live our values and how we organise our society. so let us act together and use the instruments we have given ourselves to do so. the global gateway is an instrument that has already been mentioned, and i want to expand on that a little bit, that this offer to all willing partners to cooperate should result in an alliance of democracies, bringing together trade and security in a meaningful way globally to protect our interests in the long term.
mr president, mr high representative, this year's report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy is a call to action. a call to action, in light of what happened this summer in afghanistan, what's happening today in ukraine and the geopolitical consequences that the pandemic is having. a call for action which must be transformed into the building in europe of our own capacities, our own positions and our own alliances which will enable us to build up what we call strategic autonomy. that's not enough. we need to align our strategic objectives, those of the 27 and those of the european institutions, to have a decision-making framework that is functional, really functional, and to learn to bear the costs and consequences of decisions that are derived from our strategic objectives. the high representative therefore called for europeans to be the protagonists in designing the security architecture in europe, which is now at risk. the strategic compass we will adopt this spring, the setting up of a real rapid response force, the strengthening of our missions currently deployed abroad, or ideas such as a european military emergency unit or instruments for cybersecurity and the fight against disinformation, are all relevant for this reason. the risk, for this century, for europe is geopolitical obsolescence, which would push us into irrelevance. unity and self-reliance are the only means of acting in the century that will determine our future.
mr president, i would like to thank both rapporteurs, ms loiseau and mr mcallister, for their accurate report. indeed, the world of today is rapidly shifting – geopolitical trends, in addition, the fragmentation of the multilateral order forces, the eu to confront its own position in international affairs. the current volatility shows us the need to have a strong and united european response on the international arena, but also a europe that has the capacity to set the global standards, lead and ready to fully embrace solidarity and act in a prepared and unified manner. because let’s be honest, there is no longer much truth in the cliché that europeans believe war is unthinkable and take peace for granted. therefore, in order to achieve our strategic objectives, we should shape the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy by making full and more effective use of the eu’s hard and soft power instruments, including by introducing qualified majority voting for decision-making in eu foreign affairs and by achieving european strategic autonomy.
mr president, mr borrell, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in ukraine is a test that europe has not known for decades. in a ballet of heads of state, europeans try to avoid war. so yes, europe must build a new policy that guarantees collective security and through which it will speak with one voice. we need unity against those who would like to re-create the world orders of the past, based on violence or spheres of influence, and who seek to corrupt our democracies. we need an integrated security and defence policy. we need a policy that protects democracy and our values. unfortunately, that is not what this report says. this report does not rethink our sovereignty at european level. it does not allow the means on which we base our security to be adapted to the challenges of the present. what we were waiting for was a policy that was safe from the immigration blackmail that we are ashamed of. the rapporteur considers that it is an intolerable moral error to regard migrants at the belarusian border as instruments of hybrid warfare. we also expected europe to ensure that weapons produced in europe did not end up in the hands of dictators or war criminals. we were still waiting for the rejection of the perpetual error of the military in several regions where we have deployed military means such as the sahel. these are the sorely lacking means of development. finally, we were waiting for the realization that the european green deal will not be achieved by turning a blind eye to these high-emission sectors. we expected quantified targets and mandatory transparency on emissions from this sector. this report is a report of the past. the environmentalists won't support it.
mr president, no, it is not that he has become a humanist and respects borders. none of us would be naive enough to believe that this is the reason why mr putin said yesterday that some of his troops were returning to their barracks and that there was still room and time for diplomacy. but then why did he step on the brake? instead of terrorising and dividing the west, his aggressiveness brought the united states closer to europe, brought europeans closer together and advanced the union's political unity as never before. so let's learn from this. let us move even faster towards a common european defence in the framework of the atlantic alliance and towards the political assertion of our union on the international scene. it is a necessity and an emergency. it's our weapon against mr. putin and against all the putins in the world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the member states we decide for ourselves what happens to our organs after we die. in china, however, thousands of prisoners are executed each year for the primary purpose of using their organs for commercial organ transplants. often these are prisoners who have been convicted because of their religious or political beliefs. this is a gross violation of human rights. the united nations can't do anything about it because the investigation is blocked by china. the international criminal court can't do anything either, because china is not a member. the european union, on the other hand, can do something, for example by imposing sanctions. we are committed to the promotion and protection of human rights, but this gross violation of human rights in china remains unaddressed. this question should be placed on the agenda.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, 'words, words, words' was hamlet's refrain. words, words, words... i'm not going to say anything. we talk a lot about human rights, but the question we have to ask is simple: what powerful interests are we willing to hurt to give our words the weight they lack? we condemn forced labour, but our multinationals have their products made by chinese suppliers who exploit uyghur slaves. we give hundreds of millions of euros to child protection projects, but our industrial champions turn to subcontractors who send children to mines in niger. we will be taken seriously when we are serious, and we will be serious when we take action against these multinationals who are trampling on the principles we claim to defend. in the coming weeks, ladies and gentlemen, european legislation on the duty of vigilance of companies will offer us a unique opportunity to turn our words into deeds, to show that impunity for the powerful is not inevitable and to prove that defending rights is not just a posture. we have an opportunity to be true to who we claim to be. we must not miss it.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, how long are we going to tolerate tyrants spending money in our country that they have stolen from their own people? how long are we going to let vladimir putin's bandits enjoy their villas on our coasts, their huts in our mountains, their yachts in our ports? alexander babakov, the deputy speaker of the state duma, is one of the poorest members of the russian parliament, according to official wealth declarations. he has a luxurious apartment in paris and a castle in the yvelines. kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov is collecting apartments in the most upscale districts of the french capital. denis popov, moscow's chief prosecutor, is multiplying residences on the costa brava like a loaf of bread. the list goes on and on. the alps, the french riviera, sardinia, marbella, paris, berlin... all these big-time defenders of european decadence love our beaches and ski slopes. so it's up to us to show them that they can't make war on our doorsteps and have their yacht anchor in our ports. ladies and gentlemen, the fight against corruption is a stated priority of our foreign policy. but it will not work as long as we welcome the money stolen from abroad here, as long as our banks offer refuge to the loot of looters, as long as member states sell european citizenship to the first oligarch who comes along, as long as our leaders negotiate their golden pensions with gazprom or with huawei. ladies and gentlemen, we demand the most basic consistency in this report. we are calling for european legislation on the confiscation and restitution of ill-gotten gains. we are asking for a mechanism of targeted sanctions against those guilty of major corruption. we demand common rules to put an end to the treachery of these leaders, from schröder to fillon, who sell out to hostile foreign interests. we ask, in a word, for courage. that's what makes us powerful.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, as our rapporteur has said, toys are the first category of products to be notified by the european product hazard alert system. this means that there are risks, both new and existing, linked to the manufacture of toys, the materials used or the distribution networks - i am thinking in particular of online commerce. children are particularly vulnerable consumers. it is therefore our responsibility as european legislators to provide the highest possible level of protection for them, regardless of their age. i hope the commission will heed this strong call to revise the existing directive on toy safety. it is no longer appropriate, and we must take account of new risks and technological developments. i think, for example, of the new connected toys: our children now have their eyes glued to screens or access to interactive connected games. we know the risks: impaired concentration, addiction, mental health, and the risks of personal data that are not adequately controlled. it therefore stresses the need to take into account a preventive approach based on risk and full respect for the precautionary principle. child safety cannot be the subject of political machinations or the target of lobbyists. i therefore believe that it is essential to provide the necessary resources, first of all to the supervisory authorities. but we also need to promote more responsible consumption with labelling on durability and repairability of toys. let us give our children safe, playful toys which resist the use of time and their imagination and which can later be used by other children.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr president of the council, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to express, on behalf of my group, renew, our deep solidarity with the ukrainian people. for the third time in less than twenty years, the ukrainian people are facing unacceptable external pressure. the resilience and calmness of ukrainian citizens is something to be admired. this house remembers the courage of this people, who paid with their blood for the choice of their european destiny. this parliament will always stand by the ukrainians in defending their sovereign choices, their country's territorial integrity and independence. i would also like to commend the work of president zelensky and his government, who are ignoring the provocations and maintaining their reformist course. if we are not responsible for the situation, we have a moral duty to act. first, we must act alongside the ukrainians. we must condemn in the strongest terms the destabilising measures of the russian government. we must remind russia of its international commitments, both to the osce and to respect un international law, especially in maritime matters (which is not respected today). we call on the commission to make a strong gesture towards the ukrainian people, opening the door to gradual integration into the single market, and to go beyond the association agreement. second, we must take action to maintain peace. our union was born of the promise of peace, which must remain our one and only compass. this is what the european citizens are asking us to do. this is what the ukrainian citizens want; it is also, it seems, the opinion of the majority of the russian population, which, despite constant propaganda, remains today opposed to military intervention. moreover, the french, german and polish initiatives, which were all welcomed, also remain an element of reopening the channel of dialogue, which must be welcomed today in this house. third, we must act to be prepared for any eventuality. i should like to thank the president of the council and the president of the commission for these two speeches. our deep commitment to peace does not mean that we are naive. all our institutions must already work to define the collective response of the european union, whatever the scenario. i therefore invite the commission and the council to prepare already sanctions of unprecedented scale and aid to the states most affected by such a decision. we must be ready to act immediately. this time, europe must demonstrate that its economic power serves its geopolitical interests. finally, we must also act to ensure the long-term security of our continent. let's be clear, it's the attraction of our model that putin has a problem with. it is ukraine's european aspiration that is seen as a threat today. sometimes when i listen to some europeans, i feel like we're the only ones who don't see what we are. we are an emerging power, an economic, social and attractive power, but above all a democratic power. ladies and gentlemen, european unity is the key to this conflict. neither national elections, nor attempts to destabilise, nor the allegiance of certain political forces to the kremlin must endanger our european unity, for peace, for ukraine, for our values and for our fellow citizens.
mr president, mr josep borrell, ukraine does not want war, europe does not want war, the united states does not want war, and i am deeply convinced that the russian people also want peace. yet, more than 130,000 russian troops are massed at the ukrainian border. unprecedented russian manoeuvres are taking place in belarus. russian ships are crossing the black sea in unusual numbers. we 're getting word that troops may be withdrawn . but at the same time, ukraine is undergoing new cyberattacks and vladimir putin denounces a so-called genocide in donbass, which exists only in his imagination. it is vladimir putin, and he alone, who threatens to use force. if a war does occur, despite the diplomatic efforts of emmanuel macron and olaf scholz, despite the restraint of volodymyr zelensky, the russian president will be solely responsible and will have to pay the price. he has chosen to intimidate ukraine and try to weaken it not because nato threatens him, but for a much deeper reason that concerns us all. today, kiev is turning its back on russia and looking towards europe. ukraine has no desire to return to the soviet union. what makes ukraine dream is the european union. my dear colleagues, we are ukraine's greatest hope. i urge us not to disappoint her.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately france has not made any diplomatic progress following emmanuel macron's visit to moscow. and for good reason: to date, the potential threat of conflict with ukraine is mainly a position advanced by the united states. let us not forget that the great boss of the german navy was dismissed because he had dared to take a different position by indicating that this threat of war was an ineptium. how can we also understand that the quai d'orsay still does not ask our citizens to leave ukrainian territory? let's just stick to the facts. moreover, the russian border maneuvers are fully declared and, if there is to be an invasion, the surprise effect would have been more appropriate. "i have ensured that there is no escalation and no escalation", said emmanuel macron after his meeting with the russian president. but again, a different position is reported from russia, with the kremlin spokesman immediately stating that these statements were not accurate. at present, many weapons are sold by the americans to ukraine. it is up to france to have a gaulish policy, which keeps us at equal distance between the united states and russia. behind this conflict is an energy issue. on the one hand, we want to close the nord stream 2 pipeline with the first gas producer on the european borders; on the other hand, we buy gas from qatar and algeria, which are not known to be great democracies. finally, it should be remembered that kiev is objectively being injected with european public money. this raises the question of what influence we want to have in this part of the world. the urgent vote on monday evening, without debate, of a €1.2 billion macro-financial assistance package for ukraine is an example of this. but that is not all: it should also be remembered that €17 billion has already been paid in donations and loans, which will never be repaid, even though the court of auditors has concluded that the funds were misused in a corrupt way. i thank you and i will conclude by saying that no one wants war at european level.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, let us look at our successes. let's not do it to humiliate anyone, and let's not do it to get drunk, but let's do it to finally know our strength. we are united as never before between european partners and between american and european allies, and we have given mr putin something to think about. he had to weigh the risks of sanctions, isolation and above all a head-on with china, a head-on so contrary to russia's interests. he now talks about diplomacy, negotiations and finding a compromise. well, mr. putin, we are ready for it. let's talk about security, but let's not just talk about your supposed concerns. let's also talk about the facts, your meddling, your troop buildups, your refusal to let your neighbors choose their own destiny and their own allies. we need to be reassured, mr. putin. reassure your neighbours, maintain their friendship by respecting their freedom, instead of making them enemies, threatening them and helping, as in belarus, to oppress them. you too, mr putin, can rest assured that you will have your concerns: we will only aspire to peace, stability and cooperation. as partners and allies, we must now consult and finalize proposals to you. we 'll be ready . but the peace, the lasting peace, that our common continent would enjoy, is yours, mr putin, to pave the way.
madam president! they'll come in, they won't come in. that's the question we asked ourselves in poland in 1981. that was the question the poles were asking themselves in 1956. when they came in, like in 1920 or 1944, they murdered us and strangled freedom. now we asked this question in relation to ukraine. fortunately, they didn't come in that night. that doesn't mean the danger has been eliminated and the question won't come up again. unfortunately, the union and some of its member states have dismissed the russian threat despite the war in georgia in 2008, despite the war in eastern ukraine in 2014. germany, under angela merkel, the great european, invested in nord stream 2, becoming increasingly dependent on russian gas. will germany, france and the eu as a whole now base their policies on a proper assessment of russia and its political traditions and strategic objectives?
madam president, vice-president borrell, vice-president schinas, ladies and gentlemen, it should be noted that the groups and members who are increasingly advocating the self-determination of the peoples and the sovereignty of the states are those who are least advocating the self-determination and the sovereignty of the people and the state of ukraine. they are in agreement with the occupation of donbass, donetsk and lugansk, with the occupation and annexation of crimea and even with part of georgia or transnistria. the european union cannot fail. the transatlantic relationship cannot fail. with the us, the uk, canada. we cannot ignore the aspirations of the ukrainians, of the ukrainian people, for a liberal democracy, free from corruption and a market economy that brings prosperity and well-being. russia must realize that it cannot condition, it cannot impose and it cannot dispose of the will of a european people, sovereign and free, such as the ukrainian people. it is essential that nato, from tallinn to san francisco, from vilnius to vancouver, should stand united in defence of the freedom of the peoples and of the peoples of europe in particular. thucydides said: "the strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must". ukraine is not weak. the european union is not weak. nato is not weak. we are strong because we are united against the dictators.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, elina was 20 years old at the end of 2013. a philosophy student, she was one of the first to take to the streets, a european flag in her hands, to launch the revolution. andrei was 25 years old, and he was a dj. i saw him, early 2014, with an iron shield strapped to his arm, facing sniper bullets. the desire to be free, to aspire to join the family of european democracies: this is the only crime of elena and andrei, this is the only crime of the ukrainian people, this is why crimea was annexed and donbass occupied, this is why 130,000 russian soldiers are currently massed at the borders and threaten to plunge our continent into war; because a european nation wants to live freely in europe. we often doubt ourselves and our democracies; but let us listen, let us look at the youth of ukraine, and we will grasp the deep meaning of our cities, the value of this union that we are trying to build step by step. today, it is in kiev that we understand best what it means to be european.
madam president, to dissuade vladimir putin from engaging in a bloody conflict at the gates of the union, we must be united and firm. in the face of the absurd expansionist nationalism of a man prepared to sacrifice thousands of human lives, no complacency is possible. i condemn those who indulge in this complacency in our democracies, who turn a blind eye to the corruption and aggressiveness of the russian regime and its violations of human rights. at this important moment for ukrainians and for our security in the european union, i expect member states to show exemplary consistency. all member states must support the sanctions regime. all member states must say out loud that operations beneficial to russia, such as the nord stream 2 gas pipeline, will be stopped immediately if moscow takes up arms. a stronger and more united europe is the answer to this crisis, which nato's expansion, which is too polarizing, does not have the capacity to solve politically.
president of the council. mr president, mr vice-president, mr pîslaru, thank you for taking this initiative, which comes after a debate a few weeks ago, which already touched on youth issues and the plight of young people, which is still difficult today in europe you have recalled this after these two years of health crisis. i know that you and your group are committed to raising these questions. i also want to thank you for formulating this topic and this debate as 'one youth, one europe', because it shows, beyond the sometimes very different realities among young people, the unity we must try to pursue for this priority policy. the year 2022 is the european year of youth; we must give this idea a body by recognising its difficulties and moving forward. the council obviously has a responsibility in this respect. i would like to remind you that france has chosen to focus on three main priorities for the six-monthly presidency of the council. i will not go into detail on this - the president of the republic presented them to your parliament a few weeks ago - but one of them is a human europe, in particular the idea of developing a sense of belonging and responding to the concerns of young people. youth is not a sectoral policy; it must be transversal in the action we take at european level. i shall only mention some of the lines of action we are advocating this afternoon. firstly, young people play a very important role in the conference on the future of europe. we must listen to them and, above all, give substance to these reforms, because we are also doing this for the new generation. we also know that we must take account of the differences in the situation of young europeans, which are not the same depending on whether they live in rural or urban areas, in different countries or in different social environments. several programmes are at the heart of our budgetary programming. the european parliament has been very vocal about them in recent months. i am of course thinking of the erasmus+ programme, which celebrates its 35th anniversary this year and whose budget has been significantly increased for the period 2021-2027. i am also thinking of the european solidarity corps. you supported him and i thank you for that, mr. congressman. it is a proposal that has yet to make its way. the president of the republic put forward the idea of having whatever the name, in fine a european civic service, an engagement open to all young people for six months or a year, building on existing programmes, in particular erasmus and the european solidarity corps. we will have to look into a number of these ideas or proposals in the panel which will meet in dublin at the end of february as part of the conference on the future of europe. i would also like to point out that the trio of presidencies, beyond the six-month period that france is currently holding, launched the implementation of the ninth cycle of the european union's youth strategy, which focuses on the objective of a more inclusive europe (objective 3) and the objective of a green and sustainable europe (objective 10). we are cooperating with all member states to ensure the sustainability of the actions of this cycle. i would therefore like to say that we are committed to listening to your proposals and to what will emerge from the debates this afternoon, and to further extending our action in favour of young people. i would like to thank the european commission, mr vice-president, for its commitment to the legislative and budgetary proposals of the last few months, which are still being drawn up this year, particularly pending the proposal on the alma programme.
the commission's vice-president other mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, this year we are celebrating the youth of europe. it is a wonderful occasion, because this european youth year also marks the 35th anniversary of erasmus+, the most emblematic mobility programme, the jewel in the european crown. since 1987, erasmus+ and its predecessors have given almost 13 million young europeans - students - the opportunity to travel, learn, train and volunteer across europe and beyond. we are really very proud - i think we should be collectively proud - because in the new community budget for the next seven years, we have all together managed to almost double the resources for erasmus+ and to transform this programme into a more inclusive, greener and more ambitious programme. mr president, honourable members, civic engagement and participation of young europeans is a key objective of this european year of youth. it's not the european union that will be doing things for young europeans, it's the young europeans that have to engage within the european union structure and procedures and tell us what they want to do, where they want to go next. and that's why, within erasmus+ this year, we will very aggressively fund at least 500 projects that would provide opportunities for civic engagement, intercultural learning and youth participation. this european year of youth is also a great opportunity to cocreate, with youth organisations and youth associations, what we want to achieve together as europeans. we have invited more than 150 youth organisations from all backgrounds to take part in the stakeholder group so that we are involving them in the success story. and the same goes for this house. we are working closely with the european parliament to make this year an interinstitutional success story. many of the initiatives that we will be rolling out have been conceived together with your representatives to have a lifespan that goes well beyond the end of 2022. and as the minister just said, we are determined to open up youth policy as a horizontal objective. we do not see youth policy as a deep and narrow technical policy area. each member of the college of commissioners will invite young people to the berlaymont to engage in policy debates during the course of this year, and we will ask them to express views, raise questions, share ideas and suggestions in the areas for which each member of the college is responsible. and the scope of this year will thus permeate the borders of portfolios and directorates-general, and specialists, and open up to a real political debate. inclusion will be a top priority in this context, and i am very happy that organisations such as the european disability forum, the european rural youth organisation, the european union of jewish students are all part of the stakeholder groups on the year. and we will do the same with youth, and youth will feature prominently in the agenda of major events on inclusion, such as the european summit against racism that is scheduled for 19 march. and inclusion will also be at the heart of the new commission initiative 'aim, learn, master, achieve' (alma), which will be implemented in the context of the european social fund plus. alma will be the erasmus of the disadvantaged young europeans, those aged 18 to 30, who do not have the opportunity to be in active engagement, in active training. and these are the people we want to put at the forefront by supporting their participation in the work-related learning experience in another country and offering them coaching before, during and after their stay abroad. mental health is another priority for young people. we will set up an expert group to support learning environments and wellbeing at school, and we will also address mental health for young europeans under the pathways to success at school and healthy lifestyle for all initiatives. projects implemented by the eu council of europe youth partnership will also be crucial to address this issue. and, we all know it, the covid crisis hit hard on youth employment. that's why we want to reinforce the youth guarantee. member states committed to ensuring that all young people under the age of 30 receive a good-quality offer of employment, continuing education, apprenticeship or traineeship within a period of four months of becoming unemployed or leaving education. this is a great european initiative, and we are determined to make it a success. member states now need to implement it fully and particularly address the challenges of reaching out to the most vulnerable groups. our young people need quality job and quality learning opportunities, adapted to the societies of today and tomorrow. they need green, digital and entrepreneurial skills to be able to contribute fully to the development of our societies, and we will help them. the stakeholder alliances under the european alliance for apprenticeships, since its renewal in the july 2020, have now around 160 000 apprenticeship places pledged by 41 new members, and thats a very encouraging beginning. honourable members, young europeans missed many opportunities during these nightmarish two years. they missed opportunities for mobility, opportunities for education, opportunities for employment. we owe them and we are determined to pay them back.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr vice-president, mr secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, our renew europe group is calling for action for all young europeans. their levels of unemployment and poverty, still too high, are no longer acceptable. yes, the pandemic has hit them hard and has widened inequalities. now we must act, and my group calls for strong, immediate action. we want to see the creation of a european digital platform, modelled on the french success 'one young person, one solution', to make training, employment, volunteering and access to culture available and to inform all young people of their rights. europe offers solutions and must make it known. we also want to end unpaid or even underpaid internships. access to training should not be reserved for those who can afford it. we want to tackle the vast problem of young people's mental health at european level. the social isolation caused by the pandemic has been a heavy burden, and distress situations must be a priority for our public policies. at the same time, we must respond to the great democratic challenges we face. young europeans are engaged but do not feel sufficiently represented. the figures show that their commitment to the democratic system is weakening, and this is very alarming. the paradox is that young europeans are highly engaged in the big challenges. the fight against climate change, inequality and discrimination is at the heart of their concerns. yet they vote less and less. we need to re-launch the dialogue, involve them in the public debate and, to this end, invent innovative solutions. i am thinking of european citizenship, which we want to promote, in particular with the idea of european civic service. i met young european artists last week at the eurofabrique and was struck by their pessimistic view of the world - pessimistic, but not resigned. a young italian, whom i asked how he saw the future, replied: "there is no future, there is only the present, and utopia". i think our challenge is to make this utopia a possible and conceivable future. i am proud, as coordinator of the renew group's 'youth' think tank, with my colleague dragoș pîslaru and with the chairman, stéphane séjourné, that we are having this debate. we voted last december on the legal framework for the european year of youth. now we must put words into action, and that is what we, the members of the renew europe group, are committed to doing this year and for the long term.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr vice-president, mr secretary of state, the european year of youth is supposed to be an inclusive year, which does not just celebrate young people, but which requires their active contribution. after two years of sacrifices and hardships linked to the pandemic, i am pleased that our young people are now looking with hope to the european union. they entrust their economic and social needs to it; they trust him with their mental well-being; they trust him with their future. in principle, i prefer to speak of the youth of europe in the plural because the daily life of a young person in a big city is not the same as that of a young person in the suburbs or in rural areas. the resolution we are voting on today would allow us to restore a form of fairness between these young people, to level the differences and obstacles they face, and to combat exclusion, discrimination and alienation of young people. these young people are training the young when they ask us to ban unpaid internships, because they all know that you cannot pay rent with experience and you cannot avoid being a financial burden on your family with a stimulating work environment. they all know that a satisfactory professional future should not be a privilege reserved for those who can afford it. today we have the opportunity to vote in favour of a common legal framework for an effective and binding ban on unpaid traineeships, whether or not they are linked to academic qualifications. we must not disappoint our youth or our youths. we promised them we would listen to them, we promised them a platform, and we promised them that if they asked, we would act. they and they will suffer the consequences of our failure. we must now show these young people that they are part of one europe.
for the left group. president. - the debate is closed. eu money should not go to countries that try to control the courts, that restrict media freedom, that persecute lgbtq people or, in poland, that ban abortion through politically controlled courts. yet, that is exactly what has happened. the eu's money has continued to roll in to both hungary and poland, and some forces, such as the right-wing group in this house, have held it in their hands for too long. but now the european court of justice has ruled that eu funds can be withheld from countries that do not respect democracy and the rule of law. my question to the commission then is this empty talk, it will not last. it's not a mail club that's gonna open up here, not another one. we demand action, a timetable. we need to get to the bottom of this. you've had time to plan. so now you must do what is necessary. it's the same with the council here. is this the french presidency's promise to human rights and democracy? that was the bureaucratic talk we heard from the presidency. let's be clear about this. in countries where the authoritarian forces are allowed to rampage freely, it is people of flesh and blood who suffer. they are lgbtq people who are persecuted, it is women's rights that are being restricted. it is the rights of refugees that are being violated. it is those who stand up for human rights in civil society who are affected and persecuted. it's in our bodies that this is happening. to hear you still not ready to act, that's not what's needed today. so now is the time to stand with the citizens. on the side of millions, millions, millions of citizens. stand up for our rights. stop the authoritarian development in hungary, poland and the rest of europe. we need better!
madam president, quite often in this house and in our parliamentary work we have heard the frustrating words: ‘you will not make this regulation happen, you will never have this mechanism’. well, i don’t know if this regulation will be a ‘silver bullet’, but it is certainly so far the best and most serious attempt. and now, today, the last remaining obstacle for the rule of law conditionality regulation has been removed. the message from this house is clear. the parliament’s finger points now to the commission, and let’s be very clear about this, it is now high time to start implementing the regulation. i’m happy to hear today, commissioner, that the president of the commission has said that the commission will act soon, or now, or whatever the word was. almost three years ago, the president-elect of the commission stated in this chamber before her election that in her term she was committed to rule of law as a european value. she also announced during the speech that she intended to establish an eu—wide monitoring mechanism. regrettably, madam president is not here today for this important discussion with the european parliament, and for a matter of this magnitude, she should be here. but i have to say that a hundred times more regrettable, if not almost embarrassing, is that the chair of the s&d group sees fit to try to put the ppe group in an anti—rule of law camp. i have to say that i’m really happy that my co—rapporteur, who also is a socialist and also happens to be from the same member state, doesn’t think like this because this is not about politics – this is about the rule of law. so, as a co—rapporteur on this regulation, i want to underline that we as a parliament, together with the german presidency, created something new to make our union better and more ... (the president interrupted the speaker)and so now we have to act on the regulation.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i must begin by saying how very sorry i am that president von der leyen is not here at such an important moment for the european union. i am not saying this because i am responsible for the dossier, but because the court of justice itself has said so. today is a great day for the european union, for democracy and for the rule of law. today is one of those days which should be marked in the calendar of the great achievements of the union: this morning we heard the judgment of the court of justice which gives us the right to defend from the beginning the need for a mechanism which would make the european budget subject to respect for the rule of law. it is a good thing that we have said that defending common values cannot be just a condition for joining the european union, but that we have to demonstrate this every day. we cannot say that there is full democracy when there is no judicial independence, when the lgbti community is persecuted or when freedom of the press is restricted in a member state. this poses a risk not only to those countries but also to the common european project. we have been working on this mechanism for years and, more importantly, citizens have been waiting for years for it to be activated. the european commission, commissioner, must act now and enforce the law in every corner of the european union. it is your duty and it is your responsibility. and they have all the instruments to do so, including, as of today, the endorsement of the court of justice. so i don't know what else they want, i don't know what they're waiting for to act. they have to apply the regulation now. we're at least 14 months behind schedule.
madam president, as the money from the recovery fund is not flowing to the polish government, suddenly they have started drafting proposals that claim to solve the situation. frankly speaking, those proposals are worth nothing, but they claim to fulfil the court of justice’s rulings. they don’t! but at least they seem to understand that this issue is serious. after today’s ruling, all depends on the european commission’s decisions. only our european institutions can now stop the degradation of the union of rule of law. and please, this is not a conflict between the european union and poland. no, the standard of independence of the judiciary is identical in the polish constitution, in the european treaties and in the european convention on human rights. it is a conflict where on one side we have the european union and the polish constitution, and on the other we have the polish government. it’s not a conflict between the european union and the polish constitution, it’s a conflict where on the one side we have the polish constitution and european law, and on the other we have the polish government. and today in opinion polls in poland, 60% of those questioned support conditionality. to finish, it is for all of us a success that we have a good instrument to protect the european citizens from those who destroy their access to independent justice. but please, commission, do not fail the trust that those citizens put in you.
madam president, the conditionality mechanism was adopted 14 months ago. fourteen months. since then, in december 2020, the hungarian government has amended the constitution for the umpteenth time and this has allowed it to exempt many public funds from any obligation of budgetary transparency. in the last 14 months, the majority of hungarian universities have been handed over by the state to public interest foundations, opaque legal structures, without budgetary control and all run by people close to fidesz. in 2021, a judge was forced to resign; it had merely referred a question to the court of justice of the european union for a preliminary ruling. for years, a decade, we have had concrete evidence that the hungarian government does not have transparent financial management, and that the judicial system is not independent. but the seizure of public money and the capture of all levels of the state administration has worsened alarmingly in these 14 months. however, the commission will still not apply the existing law. so is it voluntary on the part of the commission to give valuable time to autocrats to better grab power and money?
madam president, minister, commissioner, the court has ruled: orbán and kaczyński have just lost - no surprise, because, frankly, we all knew that this mechanism was legal - but in the meantime we have lost more than a year. a year when opponents and democrats were bugged with pegasus, a year when orbán was able to get his anti-lgbti law passed, another year when polish political justice has put independent judges out of business. commissioner, these democratic abuses have been multiplying for more than ten years and are becoming increasingly common. these rulers have become omnipotent; they are based on our democratic principles. now that the judges have finally ruled in our favour and confirmed that we have the right to do as we have been saying for over a year, what does your president say? it replied that the commission would draw up guidelines in a few weeks' time, based on assessments of the reasons for the judgments and their possible impact. but no! we must act now, because tomorrow it will be too late, and because, commissioner, when an autocrat takes your place, do not think for a second that he will refrain from cutting the funding of pro-democracy ngos, journalists and those who defend judges. by then, we'll have no hold on them, and by then, it will be too late. so now we're going.
madam president, i hope we can all agree here that the rule of law must be scrupulously defended and that europe is a civilization which carries with it the principle of freedom, which we have no right to negotiate, even in times of crisis. however, respect for the rule of law must never become the occasion for a double standard, which ends up discrediting the cause it claims to defend. here, as we saw again tonight, it's always the same people who are targeted. however, i also know a country - i know it well - which has been living under a state of emergency, scheduled to last for twelve days, for two years now - and it is not hungary - a country where two close to the government were appointed yesterday to the constitutional council - and it is not poland - a country whose court of auditors this morning warned about the public finances drifting due to the uncontrolled spending of a president of the republic - out of office, two months before a presidential election - a country where 80% of the ordinances have not yet been ratified by parliament, while they are taken unilaterally by the government. this country, minister, is ours. this government is yours. so yes, let's worry about the rule of law. we should be concerned about this, because a true democracy is a country that is concerned about its own health from the standpoint of freedom. but let us not make this cause of the rule of law the occasion for a political trial, because we will create all the fractures that would weaken the europe of tomorrow.
in writing. the cross compliance regulation was intended to be a historic step for the protection of the rule of law in europe. it wasn't. more than a year after it came into force, hungary and poland continue to undermine the rule of law, and the commission turns a blind eye. so we are here once again in the plenary to repeat what you already know: dura lex sed lex. the law is tough, but it has to be enforced. first we were told that we had to wait for the guidelines, then that nothing could be done until the court's decision. the commission has, unsurprisingly, just confirmed the legality of the regulation. so, what are we waiting for? meanwhile, hungary and poland are replacing judges, closing universities, prosecuting journalists and quietly discriminating against minorities, as i witnessed on a trip to hungary and poland last november. i say to you firmly, we have wasted enough time! this regulation is the last line of defence against those states which ignore european values. let's do something before it's too late.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president mr michal , madam commissioner mrs helena , mr minister mr clément beaune , ladies and gentlemen, we are very fortunate to live in europe, where the issue of climate change has been tackled hand in hand with the green deal for europe, which aims to make the european union the first carbon neutral continent by 2050. climate change policies are a potentially formidable vehicle for promoting gender equality. these two challenges, climate change and gender equality, we need to tackle together, because they are intimately linked. they are closely linked because women can be the first victims of climate change - as has already been said - whether in the context of natural disasters or the impact of climate change on agricultural production, food, energy management at the household level, or even the management of transport in some countries. climate change threatens food security and agricultural activities, for example, which are mainly the responsibility of women in africa and asia. the latter do not own the land, they do not necessarily have access to credit, and the scarcity of natural resources affects their working hours, contributes to their precariousness and, to compensate, children are put to work and young girls are not in school. so women are the victims of climate change, but they are also the vectors of climate change. i agree with you, commissioner, that gender mainstreaming is essential. we must provide ourselves with a basis of shared figures and diagnostics in all our policies for the implementation of the green deal for europe and its implementation at world level. this is the great challenge we face, because gender equality is essential to combating climate change. that's how we're all gonna get there together.
mr president, brussels europe is once again trying to make it seem that it is taking the necessary measures to facilitate free movement and save national economies. however, it is still suffering from its repeated failures in managing the covid-19 crisis. the european union thus attacks the sovereignty of the member states, the last bastion of its federalist drift, without adding any value. the commission today wants to set a standard acceptance period of 270 days for eu digital covid certificates attesting to the completion of the vaccination schedule. the purpose of this operation, in its view, was to facilitate the free movement of the holder. this is a further infringement of the sovereignty of the member states, which are once again deprived of the possibility to introduce additional travel restrictions and thus prevented from carrying out all the necessary checks on the safety and security of persons entering their territory. the european union today makes the abolition of internal border controls and the takeover of external border controls one of the central features of its political legitimacy. it should be remembered that the primary responsibility for the protection of health, and in particular of health care systems, remains with the member states. during this crisis, the european union has demonstrated its inability to mitigate sources of danger to human health and to harmonise member states' public health strategies. another controversial issue of this eu digital covid certificate is the protection of personal data, in addition to its possible misuse. for all these reasons, the national assembly mps opposed brussels and this draft european covid-19 certificate for nationals of the member states. the union has not been able to ban flights from wuhan, it has been unable to monitor the arrival of migrants, but it has been able for two years to deprive citizens of freedom with the health pass, which, however, is useless. our id group and my party, the national rally, have always opposed and will continue to oppose the very principle of this european covid certificate, which is nothing but an unreasonable constraint, a vexatious measure and a real instrument of deprivation of freedom. the vaccination pass must also be abolished immediately: it is a disproportionate restriction of freedom, which has absolutely no health benefit.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner mr nicolas schmit yesterday this parliament adopted a report on the european cancer plan by a large majority. from prevention to reintegration, the european union will have a broad public health plan. today we are taking the first legislative step in tackling health inequalities, because the risks are not the same across jobs and across countries and will not be the same unless the european union harmonises its prevention rules from the top down. by demonstrating that action against cancer is a model for other pathologies, and after three unsuccessful revisions, we have succeeded in extending the scope of this directive to include substances toxic to reproduction. this is a major step forward for reproductive health, especially for women. this is an important step in the implementation of the simone veil pact. finally, we affirm that the european cancer plan will not only be with carers, but for them. i have a special thought for the millions of nurses and nurses who care for our parents and our children against cancer. i know them well. this unwavering commitment must not and cannot be at the expense of their health. however, some drugs are themselves carcinogenic or reproductive toxic. the text we are voting on today will provide very concrete answers on the ground. i would like to thank all my colleagues warmly, and in particular the fine negotiator, lucia nicholsonová. while this text is a step forward, it sets the course for the future by bringing the ambition of a very broad action plan against cancer to the workplace. we are counting on you, commissioner.
madam president, madam commissioner, 'everywhere in the world ... where dictatorship and contempt for human rights prevail, you will find the death penalty written in bloody letters'. i borrow these words from robert badinter, who abolished the death penalty in france forty years ago. that is the true meaning of the death penalty. it stems from the purely totalitarian idea that a government has so much control over its citizens that it can take their lives. last year, iran took the lives of 200 of its citizens. this debate will be meaningless if it is limited to a simple criticism of the iranian regime. it must also help us to understand who we europeans are. we belong, in the face of barbarism, to a territory of humanity, where the dignity of each individual is respected; in the face of arbitrariness, in a land of justice, which turned its bloody pages and ended with its stealthy, vengeful and shameful executions; to a continent of freedom, where you're not afraid to be killed for who you are, for what you think, for who you love and for what you believe. that is who we are and what this debate should remind us of, and that is what we must fight for: so that one day, the iranian people, in turn, can proudly free themselves from the totalitarian yoke and live in a country of humanity, freedom and justice.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr president, madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by congratulating the courage of the ukrainian men and women who are fighting not only for their homeland but also for their right to choose their own destiny. mr president zelensky, mr speaker of the ukrainian parliament, you are the honour of the democrats today. in recent days, europe has shown that it is the best ally of the ukrainian people. europe has also shown that it is the shield that protects democracy and our freedoms for every people in the union. i can assure you, madam president, that my group will support all the decisions taken this week. we appreciate the enormous work that has been done by the european institutions to take and make operational the sanctions and support measures for ukraine. if we had been alone or divided, i dare not imagine what putin would have done to our continent. you've, in a way, lived up to the story. let me call for a step further, particularly on the measure of support for ukraine. the granting of candidate status is important. ukraine will not join the european union for a few years with a rigorous process, but it is time we recognized that ukrainians, by the blood shed in the name of freedom and democracy, are already members of our community of destiny. the status of candidate is, in this sense, a fair recognition. we also expect strong sanctions with one objective: to dry up the financing of the war of the putin clan, to end his regime and the war. trade embargoes on technology, oil and gas, seizure of oligarchs' property and golden passports, end of residency rights - you mentioned it, madam president - all these sanctions must be activated as soon as possible. we hope that these measures will allow the russian people, who are mostly opposed - it should be remembered - to the war, to rise up. the courage of the protesters, especially those in the russian opposition, must also be applauded in this house. these measures have a cost to our economies. we therefore call on europe to share these costs at european level for the countries and companies most exposed. perhaps i should close with a reminder, mr president, madam president, that this crisis shows that europe still has a long way to go to guarantee its sovereignty. this long-term work towards our strategic autonomy must be completed and include a review of defence budgets, both at national and european level, as well as an energy autonomy strategy. the protection of our european model, ladies and gentlemen, certainly comes at a price. my group, for whom freedom is a cardinal and founding value, answers without hesitation: we are prepared to bear the cost, both in terms of consequences and sanctions and in terms of massive investments in the instruments of european sovereignty. we will live up to the sacrifice of the european people, but also to the sacrifice of millions of europeans before us, who have made the european people the freest people in the world.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, madam president of the european commission, war is coming back to europe. i am part of that generation born after the cold war, which has not known the war clash of the great powers and which has been told since childhood that europe was peace. but the ghosts of the past have returned, and war is back. i want to make it very clear here: vladimir putin bears full responsibility for this and he has blood on his hands today. our group condemns in the strongest terms the intolerable military aggression against ukraine and welcomes the heroic resistance of the ukrainian people and their president zelensky in the face of the invasion. tanks roar, bullets rain and civilians try to find shelter, fear in the stomach, sometimes in the subway, sometimes on the roads of exile. i want to think of them first. today the ukrainians must know that we will not abandon them. i want to say to president zelensky, whom i thank for taking the time today to address our parliament, that democracy and freedom, for which his people are fighting, are our values and precisely the haunting of vladimir putin. we must send urgent humanitarian aid without conditions and welcome refugees without distinction of colour, without 'but' or 'ergot'. the crisis is humanitarian, but it is also, of course, more geopolitical than ever. putin wants to take us into a world of chaos and brutality, where the rule of the strongest prevails. i say solemnly here: dear colleagues, dear president von der leyen, dear president of the council, we cannot accept to play a terrible game and to allow europe to become a battlefield for ever. i warn you, colleagues, against the military over-selling and the arms race which would set our continent on fire and blood. as jean jaurès rightly said, "you don't go to war to get rid of war". the european union must instead defend, whatever the cost, the only valid objective: peace and de-escalation. strong and targeted sanctions are being taken, but how do you really want to enforce some of them, when we guarantee impunity for the tax havens that hide the assets of russian oligarchs? the fight against tax evasion is also a fight against international crime. let us be clear, economic sanctions will only last for a while, because the people will suffer the consequences, in particular through price increases which must be compensated. we all know that the only sustainable option is diplomatic and that all our efforts must be directed towards achieving a ceasefire and the withdrawal of russian troops. the path of peace may be arduous, but it is the only sensible one at this hour. nato, the military alliance inherited from the cold war, is not the solution. the international justice of the peace is not nato; it is the un. the space for discussing the security conditions of the continent is not nato; it is the osce. the ukrainian president mentioned ways to get out from above, for example a un-protected neutrality status; let's go with that possibility. i don't want to lie to the citizens, there is no magic solution. however, i am deeply convinced that the real firmness in dealing with putin is not to lock ourselves in the vicious circle of "an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth"; on the contrary, hope comes from the mobilisation of peoples for peace as far as russia. in rostov-on-don, just across the border from ukraine, russia, a young woman was sentenced to eight days in prison for standing alone on the street with a white sign, a symbol of a mobilization that putin wants to make invisible. it also symbolises the courage of those thousands of russians defying putin's brutal repression, echoing the hundreds of thousands of europeans who are decking themselves with the ukrainian flag with a message: peace at any cost. i would like to end with these words of albert camus, on 8 august 1945, just after the bombing of hiroshima: 'in the face of the terrifying prospects that are opening up for humanity, we see even more clearly that peace is the only battle worth fighting. it is no longer a prayer, but a command that must rise from the peoples to the governments, the command to choose definitively between hell and reason.
mr president, it took a war on european soil for europe to learn to speak the language of power. it took vladimir putin and his war too much for the transatlantic link to be strengthened, for nato to wake up and for european defence to be born at last. it took the extraordinary courage of volodymyr zelensky and the ukrainian people above all to finally feel compelled to try to live up to it. let us not delude ourselves: the crisis will be long and it will be hard. we will have to stand firm, bear the cost of our decisions and above all go further in strengthening our union. in midane in 2014, it was the european flag that ukrainians waved to demand an end to moscow's tutelage. today, in the bomb shelters, european flags are still visible. ukraine is looking to us. we must prove to the ukrainians that they are right to believe in us. we must love europe as much as they do. slava ukraini. i know.
mr president, while negotiations were more open than ever, vladimir putin took an unacceptable step by throwing europe into the scourge of war. we cannot accept that the sovereignty of a state and a people is violated, much less by weapons. like all of you, i support this momentum of solidarity for the ukrainian people, who have risen in defense of their homeland. however, the return of the tragedy of history must not prevent us from thinking rationally, from looking at this conflict in all its complexity and from speaking out for peace and, above all, de-escalation. by supporting the westernisation of europe for almost 20 years, putting us under the american flag, our leaders have missed the opportunity to establish a balanced relationship with russia. we have traded our independence and freedom of action for the illusion of protection and have thus maintained an archaic climate of conflict. today is the hour of steadfastness and we must show unambiguous unity in support of the ukrainian people and condemnation of this invasion. however, i would like to say that it is dishonest for the european institutions to use this war to advance a federalist agenda that the people reject. this is the case with the deepening of nato or the enlargement of the european union, which would not be of any help at a time when our priority is to silence the guns. i also want to say that sanctioning russia must not, in any case, be tantamount to sanctioning ourselves heavily. the sanctions imposed under the pretext of unanimity must not be seen as a crutch for the purchasing power of the people and must not harm our businesses while at the same time allowing russia to strengthen its strategic autonomy. this is precisely the case with the sanctions in force since 2014. nor should we use in europe the methods we condemn elsewhere. it is not in the practices and values of mature democracies like ours to close down media, even if they are channels of foreign influence. to fall into a needless bidding war would only aggravate the war rather than bring peace. our imperative is peace, de-escalation, but also, for my country, the return of a free, independent, respected france and a force for balance in a multipolar world.
mr president, mr putin, you have lost. oh, of course, you will kill again, destroy and sow sorrow and misery, but you have already lost, because we do not rebuild empires believe a frenchman and does not return this absolutism that you dream so much, always believe a frenchman. you have lost, mr putin, because ukraine is resisting heroically and magnificently, and will resist until its just victory. you have lost because you have tightened the ranks of our union, which is taking on this very day and here the long-awaited shape of a political union. you lost because you brought the two sides of the atlantic closer together and you lost, mr putin, because your people no longer believe you and do not admit that you were going to massacre their ukrainian cousins. you are not only a war criminal, mr. putin; you are also an absolute nuisance to your own country, which you are leading into the wall against its will. long live the peace, long live ukraine and long live freedom, mr putin!
madam president, commissioner, i want to say right away that when vladimir putin attacks ukraine savagely, he is also targeting the unity of europe and the cohesion of european territories. in the face of our great challenges, including the great challenge of peace, we must strengthen the cohesion and solidarity that are in the dna of the european union. territory by territory, region by region, this war will affect absolutely everyone. the shock wave is powerful. it is already shaking our hearts and it will also impact our economies and social balances. the deployment of the cohesion funds as close as possible to the territories must be accelerated. efforts to simplify the rules must also be continued to encourage local initiatives. the strength of our response and resilience lies in the collective intelligence of the territories. you know, the dictionary says cohesion is a unifying force. but here, we know that it is also a force that is able to bring together the best of humanity to face together the worst moments of our common history.
mr president, in malta, daphne caruana galizia was the first journalist to investigate the individual investment programme scheme. it was a scheme without transparency that you wouldn't expect from a serious government. only one thing was clear from the start: that this was a bad idea. this house has already spoken out against the sale of european union citizenship, and there are very good reasons for that. as stated by commission president von der leyen: european values are not for sale, as the commissioner reiterated today. there are member states that seem willing to ignore these risks, even when europe as a whole is being affected; and in the fight against money laundering and corruption, the sale of passports is a tool in the hands of the worst aggressors. on the day that putin invaded ukraine, the european union introduced unprecedented sanctions, as already mentioned, against the russian oligarchs closest to putin. but years of passport sales have opened a wound in the armour of the european union. so, i say, what will become of those rich russians who have already passed through this window and are now in europe? i fully agree, mr president, with the words of president metsola, who told us that it was high time that european countries closed this chapter of shame once and for all.
president. - i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs sophia in t veld, and the other shadow rapporteurs for this report. it is not the first time that the european parliament has spoken out sharply, but it is speaking out at a very opportune moment. a timely one, because right now ukrainians are having to leave their homes and homes to seek safety in the european union and some wealthy russians have already made it easy for themselves. with a second nationality they are already safe in europe, because everything is apparently for sale here, including citizenship. and citizenship stands for the idea of community, of mutual solidarity, especially in times of need. this idea is far-fetched and runs counter to the motives of wealthy investors, criminals and corrupt kleptocrats. they're here for their money, for their assets, to protect their bodies and property. that's the only reason they're here. parliament is therefore right to call for an end to the selling-out of european citizenship and european principles. we could have gone further, but we should have. residence permits are not for the highest bidder either. the call for the proceeds from the sale of residence permits to be given to the eu is not appropriate. the eu must not want this blood money either. i agree with mr reynders on that. it would only legitimize it, and it shouldn't be. hence the simple message: eu citizenship for those who need us. frightened refugees over rich russians.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a hurry today because we do not want to leave any catfish for the russian or belarusian oligarchs. but we have been pointing out for years, as mrs in t veld has done, as mr casa has done, as we have done so many times, that there are a dozen countries which offer residence by investment schemes and even directly facilitate citizenship, as in cyprus and malta; something scandalous which opens the doors to the whole of europe, not just to the country which thinks it can benefit from the money, which seems easy, but nobody gives a damn about four pesetas, as they say in spain. we have been trying for years, as i said, to put a stop to tax evasion and money laundering, which are also linked to this. and yes, infringement proceedings have recently been opened for the most blatant cases of the sale of passports to non-eu persons by cyprus and malta, but it is not enough. we can't leave collars for dictators or their environments. we can't leave the perimeter to organized crime networks. crime is increasingly having transnational components and dirty money poisons and corrupts wherever it is established. entrepreneurs, of course, are welcome, but the environments of criminal dictators should never be, and we have gates through which they come in. there is dirty russian capital, belarusian, venezuelan and other dictatorships and corrupt regimes in the world. we must apply strict controls to these golden visas, because they are sold as business opportunities, investment opportunities, and often they are not; and because, and this is very important, the defence of democracy also means the defence of the integrity of our system. so, today we are in a hurry; let's see if we stop having this hurry.
mr president, firstly, i would like to thank ms sophia in ’t veld for the excellent work on that, but i have to say i can’t remember how many times this parliament has already called for an end to these citizenship and residence by investment scheme programmes, and they continue to be there. we still have member states which operate on a residence basis, others still operate even on a granting of nationality basis, and we know all the problems associated with money laundering, with crime, and we know that the oecd, for instance, has signalled that these schemes are misused very frequently to undermine the common reporting standard and the due diligence procedure. so, we really need to stand united and say, this needs to stop. and we need particularly to say that in the middle of the debate about tackling the russian oligarchs’ wealth in the eu. there are many more things that can be done to tackle that problem in terms of freezing assets or banning shell companies, or confiscating some assets, as some member states have already done. but one thing we need to start with is putting an end to such programmes, which are really shameful.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for taking up this very important and much awaited subject. i would like to speak about this in the context of the situation beyond poland's eastern border, in the context of russian aggression against ukraine. 100,000 war refugees enter poland every day. these are mostly women with children who left their homes in a hurry, taking only the essentials in their carry-on bags. in poland, they are welcomed, they are welcomed, they are not held in refugee camps, they benefit from our polish hospitality. if we told these women, who had to flee their homes with their children before the war, that the european union has golden passports, golden passports that the putin oligarchs use to ensure a rich, comfortable life, surely their faces would be surprised and they would probably not believe that this is happening in a free european union, in which the president of the european commission says very clearly that the values of the union are not for sale. well, they're for sale and they have a measurable price. it's time to end this dirty business and it's time to review which putin oligarchs got passports, got golden passports, golden visas, and it's just about time to get it right.
mr president, it is good to hear that the commission has the good will to put an end to the golden passports and visas and the unjustified sale of eu citizenship, but now we also need action and effective action. first of all, i would ask the commission: will you take all necessary measures to freeze, during the current sanctions regime, all assets held by russian dual nationals on european territory with golden passports or visas? secondly, where there is a will in politics, there is a way. i also urge the commission to bring forward a legislative proposal to prevent the sale of citizenship. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality to the principle of equal treatment for men and women. i think that this should also be applied retroactively to those who have been granted dual nationality without justification. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs sophia in 't veld, for her excellent report and initiative on this matter.
mr president, malta has decided for a week to suspend the issuing of its golden passports to russian and belarusian nationals. for a week now, therefore, oligarchs, corrupt people, men whose fortunes are often derived from criminal activities, have been unable to buy european citizenship and the protection that comes with it, access to the schengen area and other privileges. but all the other immensely rich people from saudi arabia, china and elsewhere can continue to invest in a few square meters and become europeans in malta or cyprus, without ever actually living there. it took a war for the maltese government to finally take partial action against this scandalous system that benefits these elites. do we have so little respect for european citizenship and what it represents as history, as a project, as values, to sell it like this? and what a contradiction with our great speeches against money laundering, our promises to fight trafficking of all kinds and, above all, our consistent refusal to give asylum to the most vulnerable.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, protecting civil society is also protecting democracy itself, it is guaranteeing the people the opportunity to organise themselves in associations, trade unions and demonstrations to exercise their share of power. we need it urgently as the authoritarian temptation sets in - in poland and hungary, of course, where the ruling far right methodically crushes defenders of the rights of women, migrants and lgbti people, but also in my country, the country of human rights, where the repression of the yellow vests has resulted in thousands of abusive sentries and dozens of mutilated bodies. climate, pensions, women's rights: all the protesters have already and now are facing the same fate. "liberty, equality, fraternity" has given way to "lgbt", "nasses" and "gav". as rapporteur for the committee on legal affairs, i am pleased to see many of my proposals in this text, to guarantee funding for civil society organisations and to protect them from attacks by governments and third parties. democracy is a fragile asset. let's defend those who hold it.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the issue is not so much the scope of civil society organisations in the european union, but their impartiality and added value in the legislative process. the european union suffers from a multitude of entities aggressively lobbying all its institutions. for example, for the internet people, there were no less than 1,452 lobbyists who spent €97 million per year since 2019 to defend their interests. in order to clarify the unconventional policy instruments that weigh on european decisions, i call for a reform of the transparency register set up by the commission in 2011. the defence of the general interest must be the sole compass of the european legislator. in this context, i propose three avenues of reform. firstly, the creation of an ngo observatory to monitor the activities of ngos, which seems to me to meet the requirement of transparency. secondly, in view of the influence of some ngos, which are non-elected organisations, an annual activity report by an independent firm could be published each year. finally, the actual networks of ngos, which may finance other ngos as well as independent consultants, need to be mapped. indeed, the analysis of an isolated ngo can, in some cases, identify an ecosystem of entities whose influence is much wider. this is a matter for comprehensive reflection. the european commission took an ill-advised risk by outsourcing its need for expertise to firms working for representatives of economic interests, which has led to an increase in the influence of lobbies in reports where the european executive does not have a view supported by independent expertise. i agree with the report's proposal to set up an independent ethics committee to provide guidance on this matter and to make recommendations on sanctions against unfair lobbying practices which could jeopardise the independence of the union's institutions.
i'm the reporter. mr president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues peter pollák, ibán garcía, marcos ros sempere, monica semedo, niyazi kizilyürek and all our teams for their cooperation over the past few months. "daddy, what is racism?" racism is a fairly widespread behaviour, common to all societies, which has become, alas!, commonplace, because sometimes we are not aware of it. common, fairly common, yes; normal, no. other this is how the educational novel by french-moroccan writer tahar ben jelloun, racism explained to my daughter, begins. it is a very simple but effective text for starting a discussion about racism with children and young people as well as with adults. it can be a book, a film, a song, a word spoken by a teacher or a gesture by an opponent on a sports field, a news item in a newspaper or a media programme... but racism, we have to talk about it. and most importantly, we need to act. racism and discrimination on the grounds of ethnic origin, in europe as elsewhere, is a documented, identifiable and undeniable problem, which is not simply the result of individual behaviour and prejudice, but is more deeply rooted in a structural way in our society. and since racism is everywhere, we must integrate the fight against racism everywhere, in all the policies of the union. the work is huge and will take time, but we have started it. better informed and more targeted policies, based on sound foundations and evidence, can be developed. this requires the collection of equality data, with respect for privacy and fundamental rights. eu law already allows this and the recent commission handbook provides guidelines. education, cultural and sporting experiences and the information we receive through the media are vectors that shape and inspire social and behavioural change. these are areas that touch the lives of all citizens of the european union and have the unique ability to touch each individual by giving context and meaning to our daily interactions. these are also areas where representation of diversity is of great importance, particularly to encourage individuals from different ethnic backgrounds, and particularly young people, in pursuing their own personal and collective goals. as marian wright edelman, a child rights activist, said, "you can't be what you can't see". that is why we must harness the power of culture, education, media and sport, based on the european values of tolerance, fairness and solidarity, to engage in an active fight against racism so that our daughters and sons no longer have to wonder if they have a place in our societies. to move forward and build a better future, we need to know and understand our past. that's why i emphasized the need for our students to learn more about colonialism, slavery, genocide and all that comes with it, to have a greater representation of authors, historians and other figures in the teaching material. a new impetus for the restitution of looted artworks and cultural objects is also a necessary and highly symbolic step in the fight against racism, in consultation with the countries of origin outside the european union. it is above all a question of recognising their history and ours, of giving them back the objects of their own cultural identity to tell their stories by reviving the culture that our predecessors shamelessly tried to erase. we also need tougher sanctions for media outlets that publish or broadcast racist content. i'm talking about modern shows that use stereotypes. i'm talking about the foul language and misinformation about minorities, immigrants and refugees. i'm talking about content that has the intent and scope to be racist. that's the kind of content i'm going after. finally, for sport, we are calling for the drafting of european recommendations or guidelines to support sports associations at all levels, from the local sports club to the national federation, in the fight against racism and the promotion of fair play, thus inviting athletes, but also the entire community, to inclusion and mutual respect. before concluding, let me explain a crucial element of this text which seems to me to be implicit. the term 'race' does not imply acceptance or approval of theories which seek to justify the existence of biologically distinct races. all human beings are fundamentally equal and should be treated as such. however, to deny the existence of a number of communities by declaring that there is only one race, the human race, would be to erase centuries of oppression and discrimination of which some have been and continue to be victims. achieving racial equality and justice means overcoming the imbalance of power and ensuring that the principles of equality and justice apply to all human beings, regardless of their appearance or origin. we will know that these objectives have been achieved when, everywhere in europe and in the world, no one feels the need to justify himself, to justify his own existence, his own identity. 'so, to fight against racism, we must invite each other,' suggests tahar ben jelloun's daughter. "that's a good idea", his father replies. getting to know each other, talking, laughing together, trying to share your pleasures, but also your sorrows. show that we often have the same concerns, the same problems. this is what could turn back racism.
president, commissioner, discrimination on the grounds of sex, colour or any other grounds has been prohibited by law for many years and is enshrined in many conventions and legislation. and it is an important principle that i fully endorse. now it is important that everyone puts the principle of non-discrimination into practice, because that makes our society so much more valuable. sports, education and culture can make a difference. it is important that our youth understand what discrimination is and why it is so fatal to a healthy society. sport teaches you to deal with each other in an honest way, not to point the finger at the other, but to work together and to treat each other with respect, because that is what it is all about. an open mind, a big heart and knowledge of each other's cultural background are essential to developing self-knowledge, a good sense of humor and a tolerant attitude to life. to tackle discrimination, laws and regulations are a start, but only a change in our behaviour - the behaviour of all of us - makes a difference.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the european parliament is sitting today at a time when people are dying in ukraine and putin is giving further orders to shoot. this is the top priority i think for all of us to deal with, and i'm glad that we all feel that way about it here as our top priority. they are also the people who are demonstrating across europe against the war and showing enormous solidarity with the refugees who are fleeing ukraine and saving their lives. this is a big challenge for us. it's happening all over the european union. in this situation, we are talking about the role of culture, education, media and sport against racism and i would add also against lies and hatred. this report argues very critically that racism is deeply rooted in our society and is linked to cultural roots and social norms. as if nothing had changed at all, as if racism had not been condemned throughout the european union? racism has always been and always will be. our job is to fight it, because racism is unacceptable and it's forbidden. it is our duty to help all those who feel excluded and have less opportunity just because of the color of their skin. and that's really where culture, education, media and sport come in, and that's what this report is about. the prevention of racism and exclusion must be the work of education systems and the media. this is also evidenced by the oecd report, which says that equality and quality are promoted and that they guarantee the best outcomes for all children. this is why compulsory pre-school attendance was introduced in the czech republic to improve the education of roma children and to enable them to access secondary education. i would like to thank the author and all the colleagues who have contributed to this report for their openness in the discussion.
madam president, madam commissioner, educating the gaze, cultivating the gaze, humanizing the gaze is the key, from childhood, to seeing every human being as valuable and worthy. the resolution calls for addressing the basis of prejudice and hostility, which generates social hostilities such as racism and xenophobia and discrimination. i will tell you from personal experience: over the last two and a half years, we have collected in our office 80,000 data on hate incidents, more than half of them with racist motivation, from six european countries... and then there's underrepresentation, there's underreporting. we have documented thousands of cases of racist incidents, sometimes in the media, such as when they affect football stars, but also anonymous, cruel, as in the case of a three-year-old boy of african origin whose father kicked him brutally in the abdomen that made him jump through the air and fall to the ground - crashed him to the ground - simply because the child had peeked to see a baby in a pram. where we need to work the most, no doubt, is in schools, because as adults we are very resistant to our own ideological biases. school, to offer equal opportunities, to develop talent; school, to avoid segregation, ghettos, new prejudices, fear, hatred that is not true of each of us. ladies and gentlemen, we can go on and on, but for 11 years we have had a directive blocked in the council: on equal treatment irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. since 2008. it has been so long since the council and the commission have had to tell us how they expect us to put forward clear and understandable minimum standards which will help in realistic and effective public policies to banish this kind of trap.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, racism is a reality that must be fought, but this fight must be fought in the name of our values, in particular equality, and not by invoking a communitarian idea of american origin. what do we see today? the yenbou report, under the pretext of combating racism, endorses the most harmful prejudices and fashionable ideologies. according to this report, structural racism governs the institutions of the european states. it would be expressed in particular by police violence, the victims of which would be persecuted by the public authorities. the media and school curricula are also guilty of spreading racist stereotypes, which are fostered by the memory of colonization. this apocalyptic analysis is the fruit of the woke ideology, which the report unashamedly endorses. nothing is missing: neither the apology of the so-called racialized communities, nor the paradigm of the intersectional approach, nor the hatred of our civilization, which leads him to ask that the history books be rewritten. the unraveling of the statues is not far away. the paradox is that far from combating racism, this 'woke' ideology gives way to a new form of racism which consists in locking the individual into his ethnic origin by depriving him of the hope of blending into his nation. where the french revolution promised each individual freedom, emancipation through citizenship, wokism yields to the determinism of biological characteristics and promotes a twilight world of racial communities doomed to endless confrontation. i strongly protest against this new obscurantism which is taking over the european parliament. my dear colleagues, i urge you, in the name of the enlightenment that shaped our ideal, to resist his offensive.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, racism is a clear violation of the fundamental values of the european union, but discrimination based on race or ethnic origin still exists in our society. the responsibility to combat racism lies with all of us, but it is very important that the fight against the various forms of racism starts at an early age and here the role of the education system is extremely responsible. schools should be safe places, where there's no bullying, no racism, no discrimination. children need to learn about equality, respect and inclusion at an early age and be able to spread these values among their peers and in the communities in which they live. another very important thing is that young people have access to culture, whether as consumers or producers. and last but not least, an important role in this fight against racism should be played by prominent figures from the world of art, music, film, literature, who promote the goals of this fight.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank you for this debate, for your support, for your comments, ideas, suggestions, for the strong messages you have sent today, and i agree with them. it is true that education is the key to combating discriminatory attitudes. this is why the role of education will also be addressed at the next european summit against racism, to be held on 21 march, in a hybrid format. i hope that many of you will be able to participate in it, because we heard some very powerful messages today. the summit is organised in cooperation with the european parliament's intergroup on anti-racism and diversity and the council of europe's european commission against racism and intolerance, in the context of the international day for the elimination of racial discrimination. it will address the european action plan against racism 2020-2025 and how it is being implemented by the eu institutions, member states, civil society and equality bodies, all working towards a common goal: a union of equality. the commission will continue to work closely with member states and stakeholders on european education area actions and initiatives, which also aim to decouple educational attainment and outcomes from social, economic and cultural status, and to make quality inclusive education a reality for all. we will continue to report on these initiatives on the european education area portal launched in january, and will also publish the first european education area progress report there by the end of this year 2022. finally, we must not forget the role of sport and its impact on society as a whole. it helps us to promote humanistic values, to bring communities together. sport touches the hearts of european citizens and helps us to promote values that are dear to us and are an integral part of our societies, including the fight against racism and xenophobia. i was also struck by the strong message that access to culture, the world of culture, can inspire, can make eyes shine, can give confidence. this is certainly a recommendation that is very dear to us in the commission and we will continue to support you, particularly in terms of putting in place concrete initiatives to support this idea. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs salima yenbou, and the european parliament, as well as the committee on culture and the fictitious rapporteurs. i thank you both for your support and for the report on the role of culture, education, media and sport in the fight against racism, and for our close cooperation on these issues. we all understand that, there are strong messages; we are united. now we need even more initiatives to convince those on the ground who are still seeing negative effects, because it is through these concrete initiatives that we can reverse the trend, and be a force that convinces and not just a force that uses beautiful words.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 march 2022. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the hungarian government stands against racism and fully condemns discrimination on ethnic grounds. the report highlights real problems across europe and the importance of promoting the protection of fundamental human rights for peaceful coexistence. the european parliament must stand up strongly for indigenous national minorities and do more to protect their rights. everyone has a fundamental right to be taught in his or her mother tongue, and the promotion of national minority languages should be given top priority in education and culture. however, this report is another attempt by the ep to override the competences of the member states, since under articles 6, 165 and 166 tfeu the eu cannot demand the harmonisation of laws or regulations of the eu countries and can only provide assistance in full respect of the responsibilities and competences of the member states. the eu should fully respect the responsibility of the member states for the content and organisation of education and vocational training. the report is also another example of the disguised but aggressive lobbying of the liberal forces in the ep for migrants and lmtqs. it is a shame that the ep is unable or unwilling to deal with the rights of national minorities and economic immigrants who have been living in europe for thousands of years and are part of europe's common history and culture, in the same way.
in writing. the economic and social impact of the coronavirus pandemic and the ukrainian-russian war have made roma communities in europe even more vulnerable and vulnerable over the past two and a half years. in addition to their lower participation in health care compared to members of the majority society, their greater vulnerability to disinformation and the difficulties caused by online education, the level of prejudice against roma communities has increased. furthermore, the greater exposure of deprived groups to the direct and indirect effects of the economic crisis has also reduced their opportunities to break out and catch up in the four key areas of education, housing, health and employment. the institutions and member states of the european union have a duty to act against the growing anti-gypsyism in all its forms. we recommend a review of eu directives, as the action plan against racism must also respond to the challenges posed by the economic and social impact of the pandemic. we also recommend that the fra and other eu bodies strengthen their anti-racism activities. for member states, we urge that programmes implemented at local level take into account the support of local roma organisations and leaders and involve them in decision-making processes. anti-discrimination, human rights and teacher training should be implemented with a higher participation rate. the aim is to reduce prejudice against minorities. ensure that national framework plans and national educational materials focus on effectively reducing prejudice against roma.
the id group has notified me of a decision relating to changes to appointments within a committee. this decision will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
the next item is a short presentation of the report by tomislav sokol on cohesion policy as an instrument to reduce healthcare disparities and enhance cross—border health cooperation (2021/2100(ini)) (a9-0026/2022).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, dear colleagues, our thanks to the rapporteur, tomislav sokol, to the shadow rapporteurs and to the committee on regional development (regi) for this very timely report. the commission recognises the problem of territorial disparities in healthcare across europe. the pandemic has shown us that we need to strengthen the resilience of our health systems. the age cohesion report has highlighted the problem of unequal access to healthcare services, especially in less developed regions. cohesion’s pandemic emergency response is short eur 14.6 billion under the corona response initiative and reacteu combined for health care investments and emergency measures in the covid-19 pandemic. this includes the purchases of over 13 000 ventilators, 12 000 hospital beds, financial assistance to purchase over three billion items of personal protective equipment and other medical equipment. it includes support for vaccination and testing. beyond emergency response, europe needs continuous and increased investment in the capacity and efficiency of health systems – in facilities, personnel and supplies. in the 21-27 cohesion programmes, support for health services and infrastructure continues to be a key priority. innovation is a driver for the development of the health sector. as you know, health is a growth field, and cohesion policy provided early seed funding for biontech and will continue to invest in innovation in this sector. we also need comprehensive health, social and economic policies in order to ensure equal access to healthcare for all citizens and all regions. we must also anticipate future challenges and future infrastructure needs as europe ages and we face population decline and brain drain. cohesion policy cannot do this alone. we need all available tools to tackle disparities in medical care and shortages in the workforce, so we are doing all we can to promote synergies between cohesion policy and other european funding programmes and instruments, such as the recovery and resilience facility, the eu4health programme, the horizon europe programme, the digital europe programme and the investeu programme. the commission is working to ensure that synergies between all these instruments are fully exploited, with the requisite focus on regional needs and special considerations. the pandemic has also shown how fragile our borders are and how crucial it is to have good cross-border cooperation and coordination when a crisis hits. through interreg, we have a long tradition of investment in europe’s border regions. support continues with about eur 8 billion for 97 cooperation programmes to be adopted this year, including under the new stand on outermost regions. today, we have a unique opportunity. exceptional levels of funding, coupled with the lessons of the pandemic. this is the moment to improve our healthcare systems, and this is the moment to tackle regional inequalities in access to healthcare. we will continue working closely with member states in order to tackle the healthcare challenges in european regions together in line with the union’s health, social and cohesion policy priorities. we welcome your timely report and we look forward to working with you on these issues.
that concludes the item. the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 march 2022.
the next item is a short presentation of the report by cristina maestre martín de almagro on the role of cohesion policy in promoting innovative and smart transformation and regional ict connectivity (2021/2101(ini)) (a9-0010/2022).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, madam rapporteur maestre. europe’s ambition is to be digitally sovereign in an open and interconnected world. a digital future can be a human-centred, sustainable and more prosperous future. however, as we pursue digital policies that empower people and businesses to seize this future, we recognise that there is a real risk of a digital divide. the commission therefore welcomes this report on the role of cohesion policy in promoting innovative and smart transformation and regional ict connectivity. we agree on the challenges the report identifies. they are also addressed in our 2030 digital compass: the european way for the digital decade, the long-term vision for the european rural areas, as well as the recently published 8th cohesion report. cohesion investments address the specific concerns raised in the committee on regional development (regi) report. cohesion policy invests substantially in the digital agenda. eur 18 billion were invested in information and communication technologies in the 2014-2020 period through the european regional development fund. the 2021 programmes are gearing up for further investment in digitalisation. the cohesion policy post-2020 with its first policy objective – more competitive and smarter europe – will promote innovative and smart economic transformation and regional ict connectivity, including support to smes. inclusive and fair digitalisation is central to the cohesion approach and answers the key points raised in your report. first, the goal of cohesion policy is to ensure that no one is left behind and that every european benefits. we are committed to tackling the digital divide. inclusive and fair digitalisation is central to the overall approach to such investment. cohesion policy invests in digital highways where they do not currently exist, and we support the provision of e-government services accessible to all citizens. this is also why, as part of the long-term vision for the european rural areas, we will address the digital infrastructure and skills gap through rural proofing, along with data collection by the rural observatory. stakeholders and representatives at various levels around the rural pact will promote connected rural areas. secondly, we have built in requirements for gender equality. this is a pre—condition, an enabling condition. we are checking all the new programmes against a number of very specific criteria before approval. thirdly, we have a particular focus on the digitalisation of small and medium—sized enterprises, so we very much welcome your report’s focus on smes too. last, and perhaps most importantly, we fully agree that digital technology has a key role to play in helping every region to find the formula for future success so that the green transition is fair and works for everyone. however, cohesion investments and the digital decade will work together to this end. the european ambition is to be digitally sovereign in an open and interconnected world and, as i said from the beginning, to pursue digital policies that empower people, and this includes addressing vulnerabilities and dependencies as well as accelerating investment. for example, in order to contribute to bridging the digital divide, the recent proposal for a satellite-based connectivity system has as one of its stated goals to remove dead zones, increasing cohesion across member states’ territories, including rural, peripheral, remote and isolated areas and islands. we welcome this report. we will welcome its conclusions, and we look forward to further collaboration with the parliament as we move to implementation.
that concludes the item. the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 march 2022. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. cohesion policy is one of the fundamental and genuinely value-added areas of the european union's activities. this is evident, for example, in the countless projects implemented with the help of grants from the structural and investment funds. the real potential impact of this policy on the development of the regions, as well as on europe itself, is therefore almost unlimited. we live in a so-called digital age, and we experience it in our daily lives and our daily work. the increasing and undeniable digitalisation also extends to all other areas of the functioning of our systems and societies, such as administration, medicine, security and all communications. on the one hand, despite efforts over many years, there is still a gap in access to services and digital skills in rural and remote areas. on the other hand, we are still in a state of continuous pandemic, which has brutally exposed the imperfections and the need for further development in telecommunications and innovative it solutions. moreover, in times of global security crisis, its vital importance for the stability and the effective functioning of national systems cannot be denied. taking into account all current and future challenges, the fastest and most sustainable development in the area of innovative and smart digital transformation and ict connectivity should be pursued. i believe that cohesion policy has enormous potential in this area.
the next item is a short presentation of the report by marie—pierre vedrenne on engaging with citizens: the right to petition, the right to refer to the european ombudsman and the european citizens’ initiative (2020/2275(ini)) (a9—0018/2022).
i'm the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you are voting on my report on strengthening citizen participation in our decision-making process, and you are voting tomorrow against the backdrop of war on our borders. yes, the war is on our borders; the european union must show that it is worthy of their fight. our bulwark is democracy. it is the values that unite us and the rights that citizens share, and there is no democracy without citizens. the courage of the ukrainians, their thirst for freedom and their love of democracy are a powerful reminder that the european union, a symbol of peace, unity and freedom, must uphold a democratic model that is ever more inclined to citizen participation, ever more intransigent on respect for the rule of law and ever more favourable to transparency. there is no democracy without the active participation of citizens, and the conference on the future of europe shows the desire of citizens to make their voices heard, and this beyond the elections. their recommendations should be taken into account. without concrete results, citizens will distance themselves even more from our institutions. and their trust, which has already been eroded, is something we, the elected members of the european parliament, must win back. there is an urgent need to rethink participatory instruments and we must work to remove all barriers to participation: language barriers, technological barriers... we cannot accept any more refusal to cooperate on the part of our institutions. the european union must be ambitious in giving everyone a voice, listening and giving the means to get involved. our democracy will be strengthened in this way. there can be no democracy without respect for the rule of law. we won't be able to compromise. the european union is a community of values and there is no place for autocrats who do not respect the rule of law. we must therefore ensure that european funds are closely monitored in our member states. every citizen must be able to be assured that european values are respected in the context of the recovery plan and in this the role of the ombudsman is essential. the european parliament has already shown its full support for ensuring respect for the rule of law. finally, there is no democracy without transparency. european democracy cannot be taken for granted. without access to information, without transparency, citizens cannot fully participate. the european union must maintain high standards of transparency. more transparency in trade agreement negotiations, for example. the ombudsman pointed to the shortcomings of the european commission, in particular on the mercosur agreement. more transparency to avoid conflicts of interest, with stricter rules for former meps and commissioners. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a courageous democracy is one which is willing to face up to its weaknesses. a brave democracy accepts that it will always be perfect. we owe a courageous democracy to the europeans, we owe it to those who, like the ukrainians, cherish it at the risk of their lives.
mr president, ukraine has shown us that hybrid war leads to war. for years, russia has been pouring torrents of disinformation on kiev. she bribed politicians, harassed the country with countless cyber attacks. and then she stormed in. it is because ukraine is a democracy that it is being attacked. today, all democracies are the target of foreign interference and all must understand the threat to them. we must also be aware that all authoritarian states use these influence operations to try to weaken us, divide us and discredit democracy. russia is the first, but it is not the only one. the report we are about to vote on has immense merit. he names things. we can't say we didn't know any more. we can no longer ignore how the anti-vaccine was tampered with. we will have understood that from brexit to the us elections to catalonia, elections have been exploited from foreign capitals to try to fracture our democracies. we can no longer turn a blind eye to the useful idiots who repeat the propaganda dictated by dictatorships, or pretend not to see that this house has a few of them. the report we are about to vote on also makes recommendations. they are addressed to the states, the european union, digital platforms, the media and universities. the first requirement is that of transparency of algorithms, of the funding of political parties, of the acquaintances of certain officials or former officials. the second requirement is that everyone should be involved. the ukrainian people are fighting for freedom today. we cannot wait until this is the case to... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the kalniete report has the merit of denouncing foreign interference in the democratic processes of the european union, particularly through disinformation. this is in itself a good thing, because foreign disinformation, especially russian and chinese, is a reality. the report also has the merit of giving an acceptable definition of disinformation, which it presents as misleading information, intentionally disseminated with the aim of destabilising society. he thus distinguishes it from misinformation, which he defines as false information disseminated in good faith, without intent to harm. he wisely observed, and i quote his recital (v), that there is a fine line between freedom of expression and disinformation and that it should not be crossed. this is the best moment of this long relationship, sad as a day without bread. the rest is a dark slander of the opponents of european federalism. in a nutshell, it attacks the ruling parties in poland and hungary, accusing them in recital x of having received, i quote, millions of euros in foreign funding to promote traditional or conservative values. even more brutally, he accuses the national rally and the lega, without any evidence, and i quote his recital (bg), of being willing to accept political funding from russia. if we want to find french politicians with proven financial links with foreign states, we must not turn to the leaders of the national rally. let us look instead at former prime ministers jean-pierre raffarin and françois fillon, who were hired by chinese and russian companies respectively. but obviously the report prefers to be a diversion, because the first of the two is a support for president macron. finally, it is questionable whether the kalniete report itself is the best example of foreign interference, because it insists suspiciously on increasing the already enormous european funding of ngos, under the pretext of enabling them to combat foreign influence. however, ngos are often financed by non-european capital, such as that of the american billionaire george soros. and they destabilize our european societies as much as some foreign states do, especially when they organize our migration flood. the report should have denounced these bodies of foreign interference, and i am denouncing them in its place, in this forum.
mr president, members of the commission! this is a very important and necessary report, which is a continuation of the work of the previous european parliament. this report shows that the work of our committee is essential because it cannot be replaced by other committees in the european parliament. i believe that this report is a signal that the work of our committee can be extended for another term. i think the information that came out of there about russia has a different meaning today. even those who were skeptical now understand that russia was running a whole disinformation campaign. of course, this report is not just about russia, but today, in the context of what is happening in ukraine, we are talking about russia mainly. this war has been going on for a long time, on the military level it's the 13th day, but in reality for moscow this war is going on for a long time. of course, there are phrases in this report that raise my objections. the pegasus case has been brought into the context of my country quite unnecessarily. let's say that a very good student gets a bad grade. this report is great. this pass is completely unnecessary. i think this report should be a signal to the political elites that we should not underestimate the disinformation, the fake news campaigns, especially from the big states, the dictatorships, because they know what they're doing. they want to harm democracy, they want to harm the west as such. we have to remember that.
mr president, it is important to talk and act about foreign interference and its many facets: disinformation, manipulation of social networks, cyberattacks, threats to journalists and activists, covert funding of political parties, revolving doors between politics and business, among many others. it is democracy that is at stake, as are our rights and freedoms. this report touches on essential problems and makes important proposals to combat them, but it is flawed by bias and a poor reading of reality. yes, there are putin's maneuvers with european far-right parties and we have to fight them. yes, there are revolving doors between politics and the business of energy, chinese or russian, and they must be fought. yes, there is abuse of personal data, algorithmic maneuvering and other social media schemes and we must fight against them. yes, there is an attack on journalism and journalists, there are espionage schemes like the pegasus scandal and we have to fight them. we understand, however, that the disinformation and manipulation by russia and china is very real, but they are not the only ones. these schemes only work because there are actors available inside to fuel internal interference and we know well the role of the far-right parties in this race to the bottom. the revolving doors between politics and business at gazprom or cfc china energy are very real, but they go far beyond energy and the financial sector remains untouched. furthermore, the maintenance of the gold visas and tax havens makes us complicit in this threat to democracy, the rule of law and the rights of citizens. if there are revolving doors, it's because the rooms are contiguous between political power and financial interests. we shall not vote against this report, but we regret that the work carried out has not had the ambition to be irreproachable from the point of view of what it claims to be fighting. above all, we cannot allow the fight against disinformation to be used as an excuse to suppress freedom of expression and information.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, foreign interference which threatens the functioning of european democracies and our freedoms is an increasingly complex and evolving phenomenon. as the five star movement we have emphasized in our amendments the need for harmonized legislation to counter the dangers of opaque funding methods and contributions in kind from third countries not only to parties but also to persons holding elective or public office. we want to avoid any situation which could expose the european union and its member states to the risk of interference, and so should those political forces which, by making a glaring mistake, have preferred to sign cooperation agreements with putin's party, such as the northern league, or those who carry out activities as parliamentarians for remuneration attributable to a third country. in wars, as we see today, conventional weapons are not the only weapons used. the role of misinformation and fake news on social platforms and the manipulation of facts and narratives goes beyond propaganda to become a global threat to democratic societies.
madam vice-president, madam minister, mr high representative, allow me first of all to pay tribute to and thank the work of mrs kalniete and all the members of the committee which i have had the honour of chairing for the last 18 months. we have shown that the defence of democracy is not a matter of left or right and that it transcends all political divisions. for 20 years, my dear colleagues, the european elites have been fed the myth of the end of history, convinced that they no longer have any enemies, and have shown a shocking naivety. they didn't see, they didn't want to see what putin was doing on our doorsteps, in chechnya, georgia, ukraine. even more incredible, these same intellectual, political and cultural elites did not see, did not want to see these attacks in the very heart of our nations, in the heart of the european union. there are times in history when indolence borders on treason. that is why we called on the first day of this mandate for the creation of this special committee on foreign interference in our democracies. democracy is our common treasure and that treasure is under attack today. for 18 months, from hearing to hearing, from study to study, we have analysed all the forms of these attacks: funding of political parties hostile to the european union and present here, cyberattacks, disinformation campaigns, investments in strategic infrastructure, capture of elites and espionage... these attacks are not episodic. they are systematic and they put us in the middle. we are not at war, but we are no longer at peace either. they blur all the boundaries that have hitherto structured our thinking. there is no longer a separation between foreign and domestic policy, between the inside and the outside. the conflict we were trying to avoid is everywhere and we have no choice but to accept it. we have a huge responsibility and the mental revolution that is required is enormous. i therefore call on the commission to act immediately on the recommendations in this report: let us harmonise electoral laws and ban foreign funding for political parties and groups, let us pursue citizens and shell companies, invest massively in our cybersecurity and sanction much more severely the states that coordinate attacks against our institutions, hold digital platforms accountable, build a lasting system to protect europe's information space. let's make this quick. and most importantly, let's go after this corruption that's undermined our cities. how could we tolerate our ministers, our heads of government, going to work for russian and chinese interests? how could we tolerate, for example, that those who have decided german energy policy for years, from gerhard schroeder to marion scheller, become gazprom employees? it is time to restore to our democracies the strength and virtue without which we will perish.
mr. chairman, please. minister, high representative, commissioner, i have to tell you something. europe is at war. right now, ukrainians are dying as a result of the criminal war of aggression that putin has launched. but, ladies and gentlemen, we've been at war for a long time. constant cyber attacks have been hailing europe for a long time, the information war on social media has been going on and in the worst cases has led to tragic deaths, as we saw back in the 2016 us congressional race. since 2016, disinformation and war in cyberspace have only gotten worse, and we've been too naive. we have believed in the good. this is gonna be different. we've been too long to realize that 21st century war is different. our democracies bleed with little cuts in the corridor. we've dubbed it "death by a thousand cuts". the work of this committee is the first step towards a full and complete fight against racism. i am glad to hear that the commission is taking up and working on many of our proposals in the report. there are many good proposals, and i would like to highlight one: that we in europe should be able to sanction countries that attack us in cyberspace or with disinformation, and that we should be able to do so by majority rather than by complete unanimity, so that individual countries cannot oppose. it's crucial that we have a tool to deter autocrats like putin from using their hackers and internet armies against us. the report contains many good proposals which we cannot discuss here, but i am glad that the commission is working on them. now we need to follow up, and we need to do it now. we have to stop the bleeding. we need to get back in the game, and we need to do it now.
madam president, we are becoming more and more concerned about foreign interference in our electoral process. we now fear the destructive capacity of fake news on security issues, health matters, our political leaders. but for years and years, there has been disinformation targeting one very specific topic, women’s rights. and it is a mistake that this has not been considered to be a serious problem, because gendered disinformation not only has the power to severely harm women’s lives, but it is also a clear and constant attack on the foundations of our societies. russia is today spreading lies about the ukrainian people, the war, europe’s involvement, but russia has long taken an active role in promoting dangerous disinformation based on so-called ‘traditional’ narratives. this is meant to fuel hate against women, minorities, lgbti people, both online and offline. these mobilisations against us, all across europe. we see financing from anti-gender groups within the eu, from us christian right—wing groups and russian oligarchs, and do not be mistaken, this is part of a broader political strategy to undermine equal participation in our democracy, the european union itself, the world we want to live in; a world of emancipation, gender equality, freedom and fundamental rights. it is a strategy to put each and every one of us in a box where we are to stay for all our lives and accept an authoritarian, ultraconservative way of life. they first attack women, lgbti people, muslims, people of colour, all minorities. but in the end, once they have created threats that silence all of these people, they come for the others.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again the hypocrisy of our debates is appalling. the report you are presenting could be a bulwark against misinformation, but it shows a double rejection of values that are supposed to be ours: democracy and freedom of expression. first and most important, it rejects democracy. the elections whose results do not conform to the globalist and immigrationist ideology are necessarily won under the influence of foreign interference. thus, brexit and the election of trump, the victories of fidesz and the law and justice party must be seen in this light. the sovereign will of the british, american, hungarian and polish peoples would have nothing to do with these election results. then denial of freedom of speech, mocked in the name of banning hate speech. but no condemnation on your bans of the "mistaken" closure of multiple twitter accounts, of supporters of éric zemmour and the rassemblement national, in the middle of the presidential campaign in france. in his speech at the french academy, françois sureau recalled that freedom is to be revolted, hurt or at least surprised by opposing opinions. your text introduces a de facto official word. you reject the opposing opinions. what a disrespect for the sovereignty of the people! but don't doubt it, they choose freely. look at hungary, poland and tomorrow france.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you have said, this international women's day is taking place in a particularly dark context. the images from ukraine remind us of two realities about the struggle for women's rights. the first is that women are subject to specific and structural violence. the first allegations of rape as a war crime were registered a few days ago. the second reality is the absolutely fundamental place of women on the front lines of this crisis, in hospitals, maternity wards, schools, under the bombs. so many women are in their jobs, including, today, in combat. you mentioned that. these realities tragically illustrate the absolute moral necessity of a fight for equality between women and men. that is why my group fully supports the commission's initiatives in this area. but we must and we can go further, perhaps. equality between women and men must become a constituent part of the political identity of the european union, like peace. when you say 'i am pro-european', it must be possible to say that you are a feminist, that you believe in it and that it is the dna of the european union. the simone veil pact pursues this objective by continuously calling on member states to put in place the most advantageous legislative provisions in five areas: the right to abortion and contraception, family life, the fight against violence against women, professional equality and political participation. we must maintain political pressure so that by 2022 the states will be able to apply the new, more protective legislation. i hope, therefore, mrs zaboujko, that we can welcome your ukrainian compatriots into a european union that is even more protective, even more feminist than the one they are still fighting for today.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, never forget that it will take a political, economic or religious crisis for women's rights to be called into question. these rights are never acquired. you'll have to stay vigilant for the rest of your life. with these words, simone de beauvoir was already warning us. the march towards gender equality is constantly being held back and women's rights are a constant battle. this is particularly the case in wartime and in ukraine, of course. i would like to start by paying tribute to the courage of all those who are involved in the resistance, patrolling at night, and giving birth in the subway, their only shelter of fortune. and all those who are holding society back. and then there are the women who are victims of unspeakable violence and the use of rape as a weapon of war. mrs zaboujko, you should know that all the women of the european union stand by you and are ready to fight. the battle for peace, the battle for the right to own our bodies, simply. this war, led by one man, vladimir putin, is a symbol of a power that imposes itself through fear and brutality. women's rights are always called into question in times of crisis and have been put to the test in recent years in our countries. at the height of the pandemic, it was women - nurses, nursing assistants, cashiers, housekeepers - who were mobilized as the first to do the heavy lifting, despite their reduced salaries. it is women, stuck at home during lockdowns, who have been victims of an explosion of domestic violence. it is women who have had their right to abortion sacrificed, with a terrible increase in the difficulties of care, when this right is not simply made illegal in some european countries. simone de beauvoir was right. these rights are never acquired and there are all kinds of excuses for putting women's rights on the back burner, or even pushing them back. as fascism rises from the ashes, the hate speech against women is back in hungary, poland and even in my country, france. the far right has not changed and will always make the destruction of women's rights one of its priorities once it comes to power. but throughout europe, women and men are rising up in increasing numbers to demand that women live in peace and that their dignity be respected. peace in their country, peace in the home, peace at work, peace on the street. i wanted to end with these words from the women's anthem: "the time of anger, women, our time has come. let us know our strength, women, let us discover ourselves thousands! other and i would even add, millions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are at least three categories of refugees in this drama. the first is, of course, the ukrainian refugees, and we must finally arrange for them - this should already be done - to be distributed among our 27 countries, because poland, romania tomorrow, cannot bear this burden alone. the second group of refugees are russian refugees fleeing their country, repression or the danger of conscription. we owe them as much help as they owe us, because they are extremely courageous. and let us remember that the credit card blocking has just made them beggars in their country of refuge. they're broke, they're broke, we have to take care of them. then there is a third category of refugees, those who are lost in their own country. we must deliver food and medicine to them by air. the un is proposing to do so. the skies over ukraine are under the control of the legitimate government of ukraine. we must support the un action at the request of the ukrainian government to drop food and medicine over ukraine. it's an emergency and a principle.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there has never been a right or wrong war, each one has its own burden of death and suffering, and in ukraine too a humanitarian tragedy is unfolding that is becoming more and more serious. the unhcr figures, which are set to rise, leave no room for interpretation. since 24 february more than two million ukrainians have left the country and 1,200,000 have arrived in poland alone. we can therefore only welcome the activation of the temporary protection directive, because it will make it easier to assist people on the run by offering immediate rights of residence, access to housing, health, social services and means of subsistence. it is important that there should be no discrimination against those who, although not being ukrainian citizens, flee that country and cannot return to their country of origin. it is also important that special attention be paid to vulnerable persons and minors, especially unaccompanied minors, to ensure legal protection and access to education. the challenge that the solidarity machine will once again face will be met if each member state does its part.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a situation that none of us can imagine, and it is happening live on television right before our eyes. more refugees are coming to europe. ukraine signed its accession to the european union with its own blood and is paying for it with human lives. i'm not worried about the refugees who are already on the territory of the european union. the temporary protection mechanism is, i think, very functional. it turns out that it helps with quick accommodation, integration, and i want to mention here what has not been heard here, that among the countries that really help a lot is also the czech republic. we already have 100,000 refugees on our soil, and we welcome them as fellow citizens because they have relatives here. i've even had calls from families who want to take their unaccompanied children into foster care. in short, the czech republic is fully prepared to help. but we also heard a speech today by president zelensky asking for more help, because here we have refugees who are trapped inside cities, needing humanitarian aid, needing humanitarian corridors to save themselves, freezing, not having food, and children even dying of dehydration. it is a situation that the european union cannot continue to watch, we must help create these humanitarian corridors. we must help with further sanctions, if necessary with further military assistance. the european union stands with ukraine, their freedom is our freedom.
i have to say, madam president, our response to putin's war is unity and far-reaching sanctions. at the same time, we must help the people who are fleeing from the russian aggression in ukraine. refugees need security and stability. the joint decision on temporary protection is the right basis now. the great solidarity and helpfulness we see everywhere from civil society, cities and municipalities must be the guiding principle in the national implementation of the council decision. what does that mean? what does that mean? interpret the decision generously to help many people, allow all displaced persons to enter for humanitarian reasons, ensure that there is no racial discrimination at the external borders, organise assistance also for internally displaced persons and support civil society and local authorities. this decision is a first step towards meeting this challenge together. others must follow now.
madam president, madam minister, dear brigitte klinkert, madam commissioner, dear ylva johansson, on this day of 8 march, i would like to address the ukrainian women and girls who are showing remarkable bravery, whether as refugees or in support of their people in european countries. my thoughts are of course also with the ukrainian people as a whole. the number of refugees arriving in the european union is the highest since the second world war. the activation of temporary protection is a major step forward and i welcome it, madam commissioner. but we can do more for emergency reception and avoid long queues at the entry points to the union. women, children, the elderly, vulnerable people waiting two or three days in certain areas at border posts, it is unacceptable. calls, madam commissioner, for the immediate deployment of the union agencies. they have human and material resources to support the national authorities in these procedures. in particular, i propose to deploy for the first time the pool of 500 national asylum experts - perhaps 200 or 300, but in any case a number - from the new european union agency for asylum. let us, as european citizens, rise to the challenge. let's be supportive and exemplary.
madam president, last thursday, as today, madam commissioner, you said that this was really the time to be proud to be european. of course, i am pleased and congratulate you that the european union has reached an agreement to trigger the temporary protection directive of 2001 and to welcome in dignity those fleeing this terrible war in ukraine. many argued here, not long ago, that this directive was useless and should be abolished. its activation proves that when the political will is there, anything is possible. but there is no pride in the european union simply showing humanity and strictly complying with international law. it is only the strict respect of its commitments, human rights and our values. it is rather a discomfort to see that triggering this directive can be so simple and so quick, when we were told that it was too complicated for syrian or afghan exiles. it is a profound discomfort to hear our leaders advocating the welcome of this high-quality, european-cultured immigration, when last august we had to protect ourselves against the large irregular migration flows from afghanistan or against the evidence of discrimination suffered by african students and exiles at european borders. a discomfort, but no pride. we can be proud to be europeans when, beyond the directive, we have redefined our european asylum and immigration policy in line with our values to protect and welcome all exiles with dignity. our responsibilities in terms of reception and protection do not stop with the ukrainian conflict. there, and only there, will pride triumph over discomfort.
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we thought that europe had been rid of barbarism forever. we had come out of two world wars with confidence. never again. no more boots on our borders. no more tanks invading a european country. no more bombing families. peace is never achieved, not even on our continent, which is still marred by the worst atrocities. as i speak to you, human rights are being shamelessly trampled on by the military who are blocking humanitarian corridors. my dear colleagues, we are witnessing a dirty war, a war that ukrainians are paying with their lives. by launching missiles, by propaganda, by cyberattacks, vladimir putin is attacking a peaceful people, but also our values and our european democracies. that is why, until russia is defeated, we must welcome all those who are victims of vladimir putin's crimes. dear friends of ukraine, our doors are open to you. never doubt that.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, the crisis in bosnia-herzegovina today is the result of the violation of the dayton agreements for peacekeeping, signed in paris on 14 december 1995. the republic of serbs of bosnia has always respected the legal structure, rights and obligations laid down in the dayton agreements. the autonomy of the two entities of the country and the constituent peoples' rights guaranteed by the constitution must be respected. unfortunately, the actions of the un high representative on the ground and the political pressure exerted by the largest bosnian party, the party of democratic action, on the state institutions are undermining the institutional framework of the country. a striking example of the breakdown of the institutional framework that has governed the state since 1995 is the clear bias of the constitutional court, composed of nine members, four of whom are chosen by the federation of bosnia and herzegovina (two croats and two bosniaks), two nominated by republika srpska and three foreigners appointed by the president of the european court of human rights. all too often, these international judges, in violation of the principle of impartiality, have sided with the bosnian judges and have made serbs and croats into a minority. in this way, decisions were taken on the basis of political rather than legal criteria, especially to the detriment of republika srpska and its autonomy. in view of the unfairness of the international judges, i proposed two years ago to reform the constitutional court by replacing them with national judges. the hypocrites, far too many in this house, who are agitated by foreign interference are the same ones who, at the same time, are silent about these violations of the rule of law. the era of protectorates is supposed to be long gone. we must remember that in 1914 europe was set on fire by sarajevo, and if we do not want to exacerbate the tragic events in europe today, we must demand full compliance with the dayton agreements.
mr president, commissioner várhelyi, first of all, i want to thank you for taking this step on putting a conditionality on further funding within republika srpska. many of us have asked for that for quite a while, but as it is better late than never, it’s important to take that step now that it has become clear that we cannot expect any constructive moves at the moment and where there is clear evidence that there is direct russian influence in republika srpska decision-making. and yes, sure, we have to talk about the dayton agreement. i mean, this was a peace agreement, and unfortunately, it is enshrining ethnical segregation into this new now kind of constitutional level. we need to talk about a reform there. we need to talk about an electoral reform following the european court decisions. but what we need to do foremost is guarantee the citizens of bosnia an election that is fair, free of fraud and this is not filibustered by stopping the budget. if there’s no budget from bosnia and herzegovina, it’s us that need to put the budget on the floor and to send observers to grant the citizens a legal and fair vote. i think this should be the first priority.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one of the lessons that we have to learn from the brutal assault by the kremlin and the russian leadership on ukraine is that we must never again allow nationalism, ethnic conflict, pseudo-religious conflict, or simply lies, false stories, false narratives, to be brought to the negotiating table in europe or in this world, because they lead to the abyss. stefan zweig called nationalism the plague of the century, and he meant the last century. i was hoping until recently that the 21st century would be better. i am shocked by the nationalist tendencies which have emerged in the western balkans, including bosnia and herzegovina, following the kremlin's attack on ukraine. and that is unacceptable. the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina deserve democracy and the rule of law and that every person is worth equal before the state and the law in bosnia and herzegovina, throughout the western balkans.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. german chancellor olaf scholz has spoken of a turning point in the history of russia's invasion of ukraine. many hypocrites now act as if they could not have seen this coming. but this change of times has not come upon us like a thief in the night. we could have seen it. we also know that the western balkans is also on putin's strategic agenda. the question is, are we making the same mistake twice? or shall we see what happens? are we ready to be clear, to be clear? and we're doing everything we can to prevent it from going so brutally wrong again? vucic and dodik can't carry water on two shoulders. they have to make a choice, they have to make a choice, and we have to make sure that they do. to say this as a final sentence: it is legitimate to criticize china's dependence and interference in bosnia and herzegovina, but it is up to us whether we leave room for this. without a realistic eu perspective, we have too little to offer this country.
thank you so much. the war in ukraine is dangerously aggravating the security situation in bosnia and herzegovina. there is a strong fear that russian president putin's close allies in the republic of serbia could exploit russian aggression against ukraine and foment incidents or even war in bosnia and herzegovina. the rise of nationalist and separatist tendencies has long threatened the peace, stability and territorial sovereignty of the country. i call for a policy of appeasement. we need messengers of peace, not messengers of war! in the european parliament, we called on the union to impose sanctions against milorad dodik for corruption and threats to the stability of the state. political consensus is not likely to emerge, as allies such as hungarian prime minister orban strongly oppose the sanctions. we must give bosnia and herzegovina a european perspective, and we must do so in a spirit of solidarity and cooperation. the people deserve peace, fair elections and a better life. let's support them!
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you all very much for this debate and also thank you very much for confirming our understanding on the main challenges. as i mentioned, bosnia and herzegovina has aligned with the eu statements on ukraine, and i think this is a very important development because in these testing moments, bosnia and herzegovina is showing its european commitment and support for the rule-based international order. however, as was mentioned by some of you, we need to be aware of the internal tensions that are still there. the operational commander of eufor operation althea recently decided to almost double the number of troops stationed in the country. this is a precautionary measure as there are no threats to a safe and secure environment, but it visibly shows the eu’s commitment to the security and stability of bosnia herzegovina. the commission will soon start preparing its 2022 enlargement package, and in it we will have the occasion to take stock of our relations with bosnia and herzegovina. we expect to see tangible reforms in view of fulfilling the 14 key reform priorities. only delivering on them will bring the country closer to becoming a candidate country, and it is for the country to deliver on this for its own people.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. under the general framework agreement for peace in bosnia and herzegovina of 14 december 1995, the country consists of two autonomous entities, namely the serb republic of bosnia. it is therefore clear that centralising tendencies can only exacerbate tensions. furthermore, international institutions, in particular the high representative, should not exceed their prerogatives. this is all the more true given that the current occupant of this post is in an ambiguous situation, since his appointment has not yet been confirmed by a resolution of the united nations security council. in addition, there are certain actions of the bosnian constitutional court, which is composed of three judges appointed by the president of the european court of human rights. finally, i would remind you that milorad dodik has expressly denied any secessionist intentions. let us not add fuel to the fire, for we risk opening a new front in europe.
in writing. hungary has a key national security and national economic interest in the western balkans, namely peace and stability in bosnia and herzegovina. one of the key elements of this is the region's early accession to the european union. hungary fully supports this. in the face of the current challenges of war, stability in the western balkans is more important than ever. stability, peace and tranquility in the region are in the european union's security, geopolitical and economic interest. the union should provide concrete accession prospects for both bosnia and herzegovina and the western balkans region with the earliest possible enlargement. we must not talk about the western balkans, but with the western balkans in the spirit of dialogue based on mutual respect. to do this, it is essential to establish a meaningful relationship with the leaders of the countries to address common challenges.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the increase in energy prices and market manipulation in the gas market by cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o000007/2022 b9-0007/22) (2022/2552 ((rsp)).
author. – mr president, the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) has been following very closely the evolution of energy prices over the last months. we have dedicated quite some time to receiving expertise and debating the causes and effects of the dramatic rise in energy prices, which is largely due to rising gas prices. it is important to note, first, that energy prices did not rise overnight and there are many factors, some with more impact than others. whether we are talking about a sudden increase in demand at international level, especially in asia, the decrease of internal gas production in the eu, the speculation on the eu ets that might climb the price of carbon allowances and – especially – the game that gazprom was playing to increase profits and the dependence of some eu countries on its resources, all these causes contribute to rising energy prices and, of course, now there is the unfortunate war started by russia. gas prices peaked in december 2021, when they were 4.5 times higher than in january 2021, driven by global supply and demand dynamics, exacerbated by factors linked to the pandemic and geopolitical tensions combined with lower than expected imports of fossil gas in europe, especially from russia. this has led to fossil gas storage reaching lower than average levels and increasing inflation rates across the union. we welcomed the commission toolbox in october 2021 as a necessary support to assist member states to find solutions at their hands to palliate the effects of this sharp increase on vulnerable consumers and businesses. i welcome the second toolbox, the communication just launched this afternoon by the commission, which will be presented in the itre committee next week. at the time of negotiating this oral question in our committee, russia had not invaded ukraine. it had not even started its so-called military exercises at its border. if anything, the events of the past two weeks have only confirmed that we are right to have suspicions of deliberate interference in the eu energy markets. what is clear is that we are certainly more vulnerable than we were a year ago. our citizens are suffering the consequences of these rising prices in their own pockets. inflation is heavy on our economy and our industries need our support too. our gas reserves are sufficient for our immediate needs, but lower than average, and we must replenish them for the next winter, too. as the economy is starting to recover from the pandemic, the eu and the member states must find structural solutions to protect and support households, as well as eu industries and enterprises – especially smes and micro—enterprises. we welcome the new communication adopted today by the commission on joint european action for more affordable, secure and sustainable energy and will give it all our attention in the coming days, together with all our work being carried out in the revision of the internal market for gas package. nevertheless, today we focus a little bit on the matter of potential manipulation in the gas market. we understand that the commission is carrying out an investigation on possible anti-competitive behaviour in the gas market. what are the preliminary findings and when will these conclusions be made public? at the time of negotiating the third energy package, the gas directive included the third-country clause in its article 11, the so-called gazprom clause, which established the mechanism to award third-country companies certification to become a transmission system operator in the union. the certification process required said companies to prove their activities did not endanger the security of supply in the union. has the commission started to review the certifications awarded? if not, why not? has the effectiveness of article 11 in reducing the risks to security of energy supply in the member states been assessed? such an assessment would be very welcome for our work on the revision of the gas directive. with regard to strategic levels of storage, do the current levels exacerbate our vulnerability to external pressures in the short term? are the specific thresholds for storage levels defined? what is the current picture of the liquefied natural gas carrier (lngc) situation in the union with regard to third-country operators? could it also be a source of interference? which concrete market structural changes at eu level could allow member states to protect consumers in the future against the volatility of the international gas market? finally, what concrete actions will the commission undertake to inform eu citizens better about the causes behind the dramatic increase in energy prices they are suffering from?
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to speak to you today. your questions to me were tabled before the onset of war in ukraine. today, they take on an even greater significance in this new reality. i will begin my remarks today on our relations with gazprom. you asked me whether our rules on the certification of third countries operating in the eu are effective in ensuring our security of supply. this question is even more pertinent today. in this context, i very much welcome the german government’s decision not to proceed with a certification process for nord stream 2, a project ultimately controlled by gazprom. at the same time, i believe that our rules and third party certification are rigorous and effective, as it could not be demonstrated that granting certification would not put at risk the eu’s security of supply. importantly, we are also closely monitoring gazprom’s behaviour in the eu. as you know, we have opened an investigation into possible anti—competitive behaviour by gazprom on the gas market and whether it has given rise to higher energy prices and this has been supported by the ukrainian oil and gas company naftogaz, and we are still in the fact—finding phase, but we are treating this investigation as an absolute priority. staying with the topic of high energy prices and security of supply. you have rightly pointed out the low levels of gas storage available in europe today. the good news is that thanks to the mild weather and increased lng supplies, we expect to be on the safe side for this winter, but we are also getting ready for the next one. in december, we already made proposals to improve the use of storage in the eu and to create the option for joint purchase of reserves. however, we are not stopping there. today, we have adopted a communication on more affordable, secure and sustainable energy. an important part of this communication is our approach to storage. the communication sets out eu—wide measures to fill storage before next winter. in april, we will bring forward a legislative proposal that will require the underground storage to be at least 90% full by 1 october each year. the proposal will also identify gas storage as critical infrastructure and tackle ownership risks. beyond these immediate measures, we also need to look to the future. the communication adopted today sets out our vision to reach full independence from russian gas before the end of this decade. reducing our reliance on russian gas includes continuing the work we have done so far on increasing lng supplies, and in the medium term, more green energy, diversity of energy supplies and reducing energy demand. we remain firmly on the same course set by the green deal, but we aim to move much faster. on renewables, we must roll out renewable electricity in the sectors where gas dominates. this means insulating homes, installing heat pumps, solar pvs and speeding up the completion of wind parks and solar power plants across the eu. part of this fast—tracking renewables is to look at what barriers still stand in the way. one of our biggest challenges in the renewables deployment today is permitting and authorisation for new projects, and we will propose guidance on this and introduce the concept of go—to areas where renewables development will be particularly accelerated. to support this colossal shift in our energy system, we also need the infrastructure in place to match this new volume of renewables. that’s why in the communication adopted today, we make a strong call for interconnections and trans—european networks adapted to this new reality. and similarly, consumer empowerment and protection will be key to helping them manage the challenges of even higher and volatile prices. energy communities will also play an increasing role, allowing citizens to come together to collectively produce and consume electricity, and the prerequisite for this energy system is the full implementation of the clean energy package and the electricity directive. this sets the framework for the rollout of smart meters, of demand—side response and for aggregators who bundle the actions of many small consumers to be big enough to act on the market. let me finish by saying that we have thoroughly analysed the reasons for the dramatic rise of energy prices at many points along the road. today’s communication takes account of how the energy landscape has changed since our october toolbox, including the russian aggression in ukraine. the communication we have adopted today is also a way to be fully transparent with eu citizens about the causes behind these dramatic increases that they are seeing in their monthly bills and our proposed solutions to address them. at the same time we look forward to continuing the dialogue with the parliament and council and provide further explanations if they are needed.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, in recent months natural gas prices have experienced historical increases to reach 400% between 2020 and 2021 and represent a considerable cost for industry, companies and households. this is caused by many reasons, obviously, but mainly linked to the geopolitical tensions and lower imports from fossil gas from russia. with the eu gas storage at historical low levels, we witness a growing gas crisis. we need to decrease europe’s energy dependency on russia. i would like to thank specifically my colleague, mr nikka, who has been inflicting this discussion of today. let’s not be naive. there is growing evidence that gazprom, the russian gas giant, has been involved in deliberately withholding significant volumes of gas for the european market, although there has been more than enough natural gas supplies in russia. let’s be realistic. gazprom had been surprisingly reducing gas supplies to europe, according to gazprom’s own data, that supplied 185 billion cubic meters of gas to the so-called far abroad, so to europe, which is notably lower than the annual export of between 2017 and 2019, and only 3%, or 5.8 billion cubic meters higher than in covid-struck 2020. it’s obvious. the decline of gas supplies to europe in the second half of 2021 is supported by day-to- day eu gas supply statistics provided by gazprom on it’s own website. so you can see that in 2021 alone, from september to december, the gas supply, run by the ukrainian gas transit network and via yamal has been running through belarus and poland was reduced by 58% to 51%, respectively, during that period, in a time where the markets and the demand was exploding. so it’s clear that this situation underlines the need for a speedy launch of a full scale investigation into gazprom’s alleged manipulation of the european natural gas market.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner simson, thank you for being here this evening. i asked you to come and have this discussion because the prices that electricity and natural gas are seeing in the european union, in romania, have reached an unbearable level. i have told you and i repeat: it is difficult to accept, impossible to accept that there are in romania cumulative electricity and gas bills that are higher than the minimum wage in the economy, that the gas and electricity bill is higher than the average pension in romania, that we risk transforming a country like romania, where now probably more than 50% of households fall into the category of vulnerable consumers. something is profoundly wrong. it is not acceptable to have electricity producers, for example in romania, selling electricity at 10 times the cost price. this is not a functioning economy, it's not an energy market. this leads to failures in the chain. tens of thousands of people are losing their jobs because no company can operate with the price of energy fluctuating at limits that no one can suspect or predict. all of these things have led to an absolutely unbearable situation. i asked you to intervene and regulate this market. the director [inaudible] says that he does not regulate the energy market in the sense of seeing whether there is significant or dominant market position behaviour. but who, commissioner? the competition that also regulates potatoes and regulates clothes? this is a question that has led to a deadlock in many countries in the european union. i think the situation is general, and in romania the situation has become absolutely impossible. and i asked for one more thing: because of this last-minute situation in ukraine and the bombing that russia has undertaken in that country, to decouple the joint gas purchase from the regulation for the gas market so that you can come and we can all come with an urgent measure, because otherwise and now, and next winter we will have problems with these huge prices and in just two years it will be predicted that something might happen. no one can resist any longer, commissioner, and we have made a promise: that no one in romania or in the european union will be forced to choose between paying their electricity bill and buying their medicines or clothes.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, let me start out by saying that, from renew europe’s side, we are quite happy with the commission’s proposal on joint european action for more affordable, secure and sustainable energy that was communicated this afternoon. i think it is fair to say that renew europe is happy to repower europe. we still need to go through the text in detail, but i think we all find that the commission is sending a strong message in the very right direction, namely addressing the urgency swiftly with concrete measures. we all know that the european union relies heavily on russia for about 40% of our gas demands and that 27% of extra—eu crude oil imports come from russia. it is also clear to all of us that this can no longer be the case. in the past two weeks we have been forced to re-evaluate, adapt and react but, most importantly, to find a way to protect the eu and prevent future crises. we welcome these short and medium-term plans with the aim to be independent from russian gas, and we want to work with the commission in order to see also a concrete 10-year plan for europe to achieve full security of energy supply, diversification and independence, by working both on demand and on supply. we are happy to see this materialising now. i think it’s important to say that we all need to support these efforts and this house has a very important role to play, obviously, in endorsing the fit for 55 package and speeding up this work, in raising these ambitions that are on the table right now. obviously, member states and council would have to agree to this as well, which is not a given still. let me finally further emphasise the important issue of permitting, and the commission touched upon it very well. i think we all need to address this very efficiently, and we are looking forward to the commission’s recommendations, but we need more concrete measures on this in order to tackle it and to facilitate the deployment of renewables. we are happy to work with you, commissioner.
for the greens/efa group mr president, in the face of vladimir putin's war against ukraine, europe has shown a firm, united and determined face. and yet we continue to finance the russian war effort at the rate of 700 million euros a day because we have tied our hands to russian gas. ironically, today it is putin himself who is threatening to cut off the european gas pipeline to russia, nord stream 1. our imperative for lasting peace, for our independence, for the climate, for democracy, for social justice, is indeed to accelerate the energy transition and to put an end to our consumption of russian gas in particular and fossil energy in general. i hear many voices today suggesting that we replace our dependence on russian gas with gas from elsewhere - american shale gas, liquefied gas from qatar or other fossil fuels almost always from risk areas. that would be an aberration. there is another way. firstly, through energy efficiency, which the commission has not yet mentioned in today's communication, but also by accelerating the development of renewable energy at an unprecedented rate. we must ask european industries to reduce their consumption with interruptibility mechanisms, but also because 64% of industrial processes use a gas that can be replaced. what about chemical fertilizers, which alone absorb 2.5% of the gas consumed in france? money can and should be raised by taxing the oil and gas industry's excess profits, but also by redirecting public funds currently invested in fossil fuels towards renewable energy. ladies and gentlemen, we need to direct all the funds on the table towards the transition. tomorrow, i ask you to vote for the motion of objection to the fifth pci list, which still contains many gas projects, to be 100% focused on renewable energy and energy efficiency. none of the gas projects it contains will be useful in the context of the crisis, since none of these projects will be created within five years. otherwise, these projects will lock us into fossil fuels for decades to come. and let us not be fooled: the new lng terminals are not the solution either, since we are using only 40% of europe's current capacity. we need all this money, on the contrary, for renewable electricity projects. so, on behalf of the 107 members who have signed this motion for a resolution, i ask the commission to present us with a new list of 100 per cent energy efficiency and 100 per cent renewable energy as soon as possible. let us build together a future that respects the climate and guarantees a world of peace.
mr president, as europe is barely recovering from the economic slump linked to covid, the europeans must now shoulder the cost of sanctions against russia. as prices soar and bills skyrocket every day, businesses and citizens are losing even more hope in europe's ability to protect them. this europe that prefers to go to war rather than take care of its people. the geopolitical context in ukraine has caused the price of gas to soar. as a reminder, russia supplies 45% of the european gas imports. unfortunately, this crisis confirms what we have been denouncing for several years: the european union has never been energy-independent. for years, technocrats in brussels have been shutting down our energy industries, leaving thousands of europeans unemployed. today europe is on the verge of collapse, ready to import american shale gas, whose environmental impact is well known. today, after making the mistake of wind and nuclear power, we are forced to reopen coal-fired power stations. its good performance in terms of co2 emissions makes nuclear the most decarbonised energy in the world. france is proud to have been a pioneer in this area. this know-how spread throughout the continent, until the european union put a stop to it. this is economic and energy suicide.
mr president, we are facing an existential crisis and it is time to take action. the 400% increase in the price of gas in just one year is obviously a major crisis, a vital crisis for european households and countries, but also for tens of thousands of businesses that could be doomed to bankruptcy and for our entire financial system, which is threatened with collapse in the face of the exploding need for financing. we must act now. we must do everything possible, use all the tools at our disposal to cushion the shock and to overcome this crisis. and the proposals made today by the commission will not be enough. the commission proposes to oblige europeans to increase their reserves. but how can we store more of what we can neither produce nor buy? that will only make the market more competitive. the urgent need is to contain prices and, to do so, to return to the market logic which the commission has been trying to impose on the energy sector for years. it is thanks to this logic that we are now paying 600 million euros a day to russia. prices should no longer depend on market fluctuations but on production costs and we owe this to all consumers. the urgent issue is, and will remain, production: we must produce, produce, produce. and from this point of view, it is dramatic that the commission has not included among the proposals of the international energy agency the proposal to extend the existing nuclear programme. if germany and belgium alone decided to keep the four reactors that they have decided to close, europe would save 1 billion cubic metres of gas a month on its imports from russia. do those who have closed down power plants in our countries now realise that they are making us more vulnerable in the current crisis and that they are condemning us, in a certain way, to impotence in the face of the aggression that ukraine is suffering today?
in writing. in the middle of winter, the country that heats 45% of european homes started a war in europe, and amid the pandemic and the economic crisis, energy prices exploded. russia has always been a difficult partner for the eu, but even so, very few of us would have imagined that european peace and energy security would be threatened at this level. could we have foreseen this situation? i'm not sure. putin's intentions have been clear since 2008. the eu had to read between the lines and break away from russia energetically. is it too late now? i'm not sure. we need to continue to implement the green deal, but adapt the targets to this crisis situation. what does that mean? what does that mean? here are some immediate steps we can take:- to increase gas production in eu countries: romania, the netherlands, cyprus, as well as norway; - use liquefied natural gas (lng); - to reopen coal mines (temporarily); - to increase nuclear power production; - to complete the energy interconnection networks; - amend the national recovery and resilience plans (nrpps) and invest more in the energy sector. solutions exist, they're within our reach. the eu and the member states must be determined to implement them as quickly as possible.
in writing. even as we debate in the european parliament the measures adopted by the commission on common european action for more accessible, safer and more sustainable energy, fuel prices at the pump have reached record levels. so are energy and gas. the european union must respond to this crisis as a matter of urgency. household consumption accounts for almost 30% of the eu's energy consumption. these citizens have the greatest difficulty in switching to new renewable energy sources, and over 35% of them still rely on natural gas. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. we need a european strategy, common stocks and purchases, a policy of energy independence and financial resources so that no european citizen is affected by this crisis and the next winter.
in writing. the increase in energy prices, which we have already suffered since the summer of 2021, has been exponentially accentuated by the invasion of ukraine by russia, and forecasts tell us that these prices will continue to rise until the next year 2023. understanding that these prices are the fundamental component of inflation and will therefore affect the purchasing power of eu consumers, smes and industry, especially the most vulnerable, we socialists have advocated solutions that address energy prices. these solutions include, for example, decoupling the price of gas from electricity and, more fundamentally, accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies. eliminating our energy dependence on russia, especially in times like these, is a necessity.
before we move on to the next item on the agenda, i have an announcement. ms salima yenbou is leaving the green political group and joining the renew europe political group as of tomorrow 9 march 2022.
the next item on the agenda is the report by mrs tolleret and mrs delbos-corfield on the gender mainstreaming in the european parliament - annual report 2020. the first speaker is mrs tolleret, the rapporteur, who will be speaking from paris, from the offices of the european parliament, for six minutes.
i'm the reporter. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our european parliament has never had so many women. we now represent 39.5% of the members of this parliament. we have even recently elected a woman president of our institution for the third time in its history. is this a sign that gender equality is advancing in our assembly? i'm sure you do. but is that enough? no, i'm not going to. this progress is far too slow. we can, we must go further and faster. in the european parliament, gender equality must become a daily reality. on the one hand, to ensure a balanced representation of women at all levels of functioning and, on the other hand, to enable effective gender mainstreaming in all our policies. ladies and gentlemen, that is the aim of the report we are voting on today. to improve gender equality in the european parliament, it is essential that women are properly represented. and we have no shortage of women who have the ambition to participate in european politics. however, obstacles remain and women do not have the same opportunities to enter the european parliament as men. this report seeks to remove these obstacles by proposing the introduction of quotas in the new european electoral law. in some countries of our union, quotas in politics are already a reality. they've proven themselves. they have made a major contribution to promoting women's access to decision-making bodies. this is necessary if we are to hope to achieve parity in our institution. this work of balanced representation between women and men must continue beyond the election, because once elected, the difficulties begin. women are less present in decision-making positions. just look at the composition of committee chairs: out of 23 committees and subcommittees, only just over one third are chaired by women. they also have less access to policy reports. this report seeks to remove these barriers by reforming the european parliament's procedures, so as to introduce real parity at all levels of the functioning of our institution. in drafting this report, we have found that the implementation of gender mainstreaming in our public policies is still too fragmented. many legislative proposals do not take gender into account at all. the gender dimension has not yet been extended to the entire budget of the european union. this is one of the eu's official approaches to achieving gender equality. gender mainstreaming is therefore essential, because for too long our public policies have been made by men, for men. a policy that does not take into account the specific needs of women, who make up 52% of our population, is at best a lost opportunity to improve equality between women and men, but much more likely to risk making the situation worse. this report proposes to better integrate the gender dimension into our parliamentary activities, through various measures. too often, the gender perspective is not taken into account in our work, not so much because meps want to, but because of a lack of knowledge. this is why this report calls for better cooperation with the european institute for gender equality to provide specific training for meps, for assistants, for all staff, so that they are able to integrate a gender dimension in their work. the report also calls for the institutionalisation of the 'gender mainstreaming network', a network of members of the european parliament including members of the committee on women's rights and the 'gender mainstreaming' delegates present within each parliamentary committee. finally, we are calling for gender mainstreaming to be fully integrated into european legislation. we therefore call on the commission to accompany each legislative and non-legislative proposal with a gender impact study. we need gender-disaggregated data, because this data allows us to be aware of the differentiated impact of our policies on gender. it is this awareness that allows us to act. it is also necessary that the european budget mainstreams this gender perspective by going beyond the simple financing of projects promoting equality between women and men, by explicitly taking into account the objective of equality in the budgetary process. every euro spent must benefit women as much as men. on this 8th of march, international women's day, it is time to stop the big talk. it's time to act. we have the opportunity to make our european parliament a model institution for our society by bringing about a paradigm shift in the way we operate. i say we go. it's the 8th of march. it is international women's rights day. let us make this parliament a house where, as olympe de gouges said, women are born free and remain equal to men in rights. let's make this house a day where every day is march 8th.
mr president, the lack of equality between women and men, the lack of equality between the sexes, is still a major problem in our societies, in our member states, in our economies, in our institutions, but also in our mental and structural patterns. equality is still a struggle in some occupational areas, specifically for some women, and in some families, and it remains unfinished everywhere. in political representation and places of power, in the way we design our public policies and their concrete consequences on the lives of european citizens, in companies, with the wage gap, in access to health, etc. however, in this parliament, which was a pioneer with the creation, as early as 1979, of the committee on women's rights, a mandate which has only grown and a role which has become essential in the work of this institution, one might think that finally almost everything is done. 39% of the members of this parliament are women, as irène said, which is more than the 30% of national parliaments in the member states and much more than the 25% of parliaments in the world. but should we remember that women make up half the european population and that they could therefore be represented here at the same level? there is also considerable progress in positions of responsibility, such as parity in the bureau of the parliament, but only 8 of the 25 committees are currently headed by women and 15 of the 43 delegations are chaired by women. above all, this lack of parity is a major concern in the way it impacts our day-to-day legislative work, in the composition of committees, in the appointment of coordinators, in the choice of rapporteurs, in the distribution of speaking time. the major issues, the most strategic, those at the heart of power, are mainly conceived, studied and debated among men. climate, agriculture, economics, constitutional: the great structural laws have been in the hands of men. it is therefore a question of representation and a question of content. the gender dimension must be reflected in the legislative texts produced by our institutions. there are unthinking equality issues today in matters such as the green deal, the common agricultural policy, the preparation of budgets, the recent recovery plans and support following the health crisis. in the absence of an inclusive and inclusive approach, our public policies sometimes increase existing inequalities and public money is mainly used to support male employment sectors, leaving women, and especially women from minorities, behind. in political representation, therefore, member states must be encouraged to elect as many women as men in elections, but taking into account the diversity of women in all decision-making areas. we must take this into account in our teams and in the administration, of course. the higher you go up the pyramid, the more male representation is dominant. so there are rules to be changed and certain provisions concern our rules of procedure. but it is also in our practices, within our political groups, that we can change things. and it concerns all of us here - all of us, too, since we are mainly women working on this issue. gender perspective must be integrated into all decisions, including internal, in our functioning and in the way we work collectively. and no group is virtuous. my group has long had special rules in terms of the division between women and men, and yet it is almost always women who deal with gender issues. we often arouse a polite, respectful interest, but no more. we need the involvement of all men and women in these matters. all the other important recommendations in the report are essential: recruitment, training, parental leave, work-life balance, the fight against discrimination. there is one very important point: we need to carry out an audit, we need data; data is essential to be able to make a road map. we need to know where we're going. you can't fix problems you can't see. the committees have started to bring up information - this has enabled us to see that, for example, the committee on agriculture has only 20% of experts coming to speak, compared to 80% of men - but we need more information. the report we are presenting today is the result of patient, methodical and collaborative work. this is the continuation of work already carried out by the femm committee for a very long time. it is the result of work carried out within the gender mainstreaming network, progress achieved within the parliament's high level group on gender equality and diversity, and above all the work of several women in several groups. it is our joint work which we can welcome here and which is a real step forward for this parliament. we don't often have reasons to be satisfied, but today i think we have one.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on this international women's rights day, i would like to begin by paying tribute to the courage and strength of ukrainian women. two thousand miles from here, women are taking up arms to defend their country. they give birth under the bombs. they go into exile with their children. they're resisting. our generation is witnessing global crises of unprecedented scale that are placing all of humanity in front of new challenges: wars, health crises, climate crises. when we are immersed in the unknown, inequalities reappear and grow. and when we talk about inequality, we know that women are the first victims. the covid-19 pandemic has ushered us into a new era: increased insecurity, unemployment, domestic violence, unintended pregnancies, out-of-schooling. one study says that the crisis has cost us 36 years of progress on equality. the climate and environmental crisis disproportionately impacts women, who suffer the most from the consequences of climate change and natural disasters. in afghanistan, since the return of the taliban, women have been deprived of their emancipation and freedom. in the democratic republic of congo, in conflict zones, rape is being used as a weapon of war to terrorize civilian populations. in mexico, the fight against child pornography and the sexual exploitation of women and children is confronted with corruption and male chauvinism in society. in iraq, yazidi women were enslaved for sex by daesh and thousands are still missing today. all over the world, girls and women are suffering discrimination and violence in their bodies, but they do not give up. this is why a new european external action plan for equality is of paramount importance. the gap iii is a major political and financial instrument of the european union. it reaffirms our commitment to promoting our equality values in our external action. it's called "feminist diplomacy". the report is the result of extensive fieldwork and consultations on all continents - asia, latin america, africa and the middle east. i had many exchanges with civil society, survivors of violence, activists, ministers, mps, journalists, diplomats. all contributed with their experiences, experiences and proposals to make this report respond to the needs of women and girls and the specific problems of each cause. i would like to express my gratitude to the two nobel peace prize winners, dr denis mukwege and nadia murad, and to all those who have trusted the european union and this gap. i would also like to thank the european union delegations for their valuable support, as well as my fictitious colleagues and all the teams of the two committees, femm and deve, for this excellent collaboration. it is thanks to all of you that we have today a comprehensive and ambitious text with innovative and concrete ideas. the following are some of the european parliament's proposals, madam commissioner: to extend the provision of holistic care centres for victims of sexual violence to conflict zones and to put an end to the impunity of war criminals who rape and torture women; training of girls in digital skills; ensure access to safe and legal abortion, contraception, sexuality education and maternal health; funding menstrual hygiene devices in schools, to increase girls' school attendance; extend the 'gender bonus' to finance the feminist transition and include women in the economy; involve men and boys, who must be the protagonists of the change in mindsets; supporting civil society actors who are fighting bravely. these and many other proposals make this report a powerful message. we must find in crises the determination and strength to build a just and humanistic future. my dear colleagues, we are all envious of europe's progress and values all over the world; we must be even more demanding of ourselves. wherever they live in the world, we must stand with the women and girls of the world who want to make their voices heard and take charge of their destiny. there is no political diplomacy, no economic diplomacy, without feminist diplomacy. through gap, we invest in human development, in empowerment. we are investing in a future where 'generation equality' is no longer a slogan. on 8 march, and in the face of successive crises, i would like to conclude on the importance of including women in conflict resolution processes, of involving them directly at the negotiating table. they are essential actors in the construction of a lasting peace. the path to peace can only be taken with them.
mr president, the action plan you are proposing is to make the european union the voice of women's rights in the world. when it comes to combating femicide, child marriage, genital mutilation, human trafficking and sexual violence, i fully share and support these goals. this text, however, seems to me to be ideological and questionable. its main objective is to require that 85% of all new external actions of the european union have gender equality as an important or main objective. first of all, it should be remembered that international relations are primarily the prerogative of sovereign states. secondly, we should ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to make almost all the european union's international aid conditional on actions promoting gender equality. while the advancement of women's rights is undoubtedly an essential struggle, it is not the only one that is desirable to fight. objectives that are essential for development aid, such as controlling demography or migration or protecting the environment, will be relegated to the background. moreover, the increase in budgets devoted to international aid by the european union, in parallel and sometimes in contradiction to the action of the member states and their diplomacy, is not necessarily desirable. it is all the less so when it is ideological. the text thus denounces conservative discourses, i.e. the right to oppose gender theories. at the same time, while the rise of radical islam in europe and the world is a serious threat to women, their freedoms and rights, the text does not say a word about this problem.
madam president, we have to admit that the european union is in a deep global crisis, or even recession. it’s not just covid-19 shock, as written in the commission paper on the annual sustainable growth survey 2022. in such a crisis situation, people and only people can be at the forefront as the saviour and engine of development. the commission paper refers to the four mutually reinforcing dimensions of competitive sustainability, but their mutual influence is non-linear, and we cannot give equal weight to these four aspects. we must choose those that are a priority and subordinate the rest of them, and just fairness must be the condition under which the other three dimensions – that is environmental sustainability, productivity and macroeconomic stability – are to be examined. fairness is about people. broad social guarantees, an effective fight against poverty in general, with a special focus on in-work poverty, direct support for the most vulnerable groups: that is a solution which is needed now. we would like to thank mr gueking for our common work done on this report, and we hope that after the votes on the amendments, we will be able to change our position – that is abstention at committee level – and support the report.
madam president, madam minister, commissioners, even if the macroeconomic stability of the european union is a guarantee of overall economic recovery within the area, a debate must be opened on the role and efficiency of the european semester. first of all, as an instrument for the coordination of economic and budgetary policies, i am surprised by the lack of involvement of national parliaments in the decision-making process since the instrument was created. as regards the implementation of the recommendations, a report by the european court of auditors concluded that member states had implemented, in whole or in part, only one quarter of the council recommendations between 2011 and 2018, while for almost one third of them, progress was limited or non-existent. the reason is simple: the recommendations are based on a disparate set of provisions of different origins which have in common that they have no mandatory denominative value, creating neither rights nor obligations, but which must exert a regulatory influence on the behaviour of the member states. greater transparency in the decision-making process, an association of national parliaments and the eurogroup, seem to me to be necessary paths of reform.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. while i share the optimism of ms tinagli's report that all eu countries will have recovered to pre-pandemic gdp by the end of 2022, i would like to point out that russia's aggression against ukraine, a full-scale war that is being waged on the eastern border of the european union, will have a negative impact on the european economy. and that's what commissioner dombrovskis was talking about. i also hope that the eu will finally decide to impose full sanctions on russia, including an oil and gas embargo. we should therefore take into account their negative effects on the european economy and its financial system. the eu must decide on such sanctions, because in a situation where the russians are murdering civilians in ukraine, continuing to import - sorry for the brutality of the wording - means that along with oil and gas, the blood of ukrainian children and women is flowing into europe. moreover, commissioner, if we do not stop russia in ukraine with sanctions, the next countries will be the baltic states, including your country, latvia, and then perhaps my country, poland. full sanctions will cause financial distress for many european companies, banks and funds. and you also have to remember that russia has borrowed about four hundred billion dollars from the west, and now that it has basically declared limited insolvency, all of these companies, banks and funds are going to be in a lot of trouble. i would also like to oppose strongly the commission's continued blocking of funds from the polish csf. in a situation where poland has taken in one million three hundred thousand refugees in 13 days and they have all found a place in polish families, in public buildings, in hotels, blocking these funds is simply a disgrace to the commission.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the well-being and equal opportunities of children and young people must be among europe's most important objectives. it is therefore more important than ever to implement the child guarantee and the enhanced youth guarantee. families are the cornerstone of european society. they are the survival of nations, and only strong families can form a strong society that can stand its ground in global competition. and we're seeing this now, as thousands of families are volunteering to help ukrainian refugees. the hungarian government provides substantial support to young people in the areas of home-building and family formation. and the reduction in the budget, which has been in place for nine years, allows families to avoid having to pay for heating, which is very important, especially in today's situation. public education and textbooks are also free, and this contributes to the fact that future generations will have an equal start.
madam president, not even a year ago, government leaders of europe came together in porto and made a solid declaration to make concrete steps towards a more social europe. this promise must be reflected in the european semester. we should not use the old recipes now that the war in the ukraine plunges us in yet another social economic crisis. not only the defence capacity, energy dependency or the economic robustness is at stake but also the well—being of people, including the ukrainian refugees who are welcome in europe. with skyrocketing prices of energy and with deep-diving purchasing power, i fear the most vulnerable will bear the burden. it’s our duty to ensure that everyone contributes a fair share – also the well—to—do, also the multinationals. the question is, how is parliament going to deal with these questions? we should not retreat on our ambitions. social standards are not red tape. the european semester process must be giving equal importance to economic, social and environmental policies. we must ensure a sustainable future for people in europe. the governance architecture of the eu must be based on solidarity, on fair distribution of wealth and on making quality jobs a reality. this battle must be won to overcome the current crisis in the long run.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to talk to you about concrete realities, the litre of petrol that is rising to more than 2 euros without the state intervening, the overall energy bill that could increase by 400 euros this year, the hospital beds that have closed in the midst of the covid crisis, the unemployment benefits and pensions that are decreasing. a harsh reality for the peoples of europe, a reality far removed from our house and its sometimes lunar debates. all this because states must follow the european commission's austerity criteria and cut spending, rules so absurd that the commission itself ended up suspending them to avoid chaos in the midst of the health crisis. the only thing we have to worry about today, ladies and gentlemen, is how to get out of this situation once and for all rather than arrange for their return by 2023. faced with ecological and social emergencies, deficits and debt can no longer be the alpha and omega of european economic policies. and if you want economic convergence, i have a few ideas: the well-being of people, reducing inequalities, protecting the environment... i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to step out of your bubble and look at this reality and finally respond to it.
madam president, commissioners, madam minister, for the last two and a half years, we, the european parliament, have been calling for the reform of the european semester process so that it can be an instrument for coordinating our policies in the service of social progress and the environmental and digital transitions. for the last two and a half years, one crisis after another has proved us right. first, the pandemic crisis. the current semester has shown its flexibility, with the triggering of the general exception clause, to allow our policies to "go ahead at all costs", and its continuation until 2023 is crucial. the war in ukraine now: moving faster and further to build our european sovereignty, including energy. this must mean massive investment in the transition to a climate-neutral and energy-independent economy. that sovereignty must go hand in hand with our promise to leave no one behind. and to do that, we need to revise our rules. the versailles summit, which president macron has also initiated, must be the starting point for this new phase.
madam president, commissioners dombrovskis and gentiloni, ladies and gentlemen, this report on the european semester rightly focuses on the increase in gender, generational, social, economic and, above all, territorial inequalities due to the covid-19 crisis. unfortunately, we have not had time to get out of a crisis that has already brought on another, the war, and you have said that the recovery and resilience mechanism is crucial to limiting the impact of the new crisis. i would point out that the italian government has immediately launched a plan b to support businesses, which are mainly located in the centre and north, sacrificing once again the south of italy, which will pay the price of the war. so once again the italian government has done nothing to absorb the resources of the south and is favouring the north in the peaceful fight against territorial inequalities. i believe that the european commission should not accept any change in national plans at this time if we do not want to widen the economic crisis further.
mr president, the past two years have been unprecedented. the pandemic has thrown our economy off balance, resulting in massive inflation. the future calls for sound economic policies: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: although this is addressed in the european semester, we lack a plan to address the problems of the people at home. the forecasts indicate that member states' economies will return to pre-pandemic levels by the end of this year. but the world has changed, and the forecasts are outdated. the war in ukraine will cause inflation to rise further and energy prices to rise further. if we want to become independent of russian gas, it is important that we abandon the european green deal. we're not going to make it with wind and solar. we must start now with investments in european gas, modern coal-fired power stations and nuclear energy, because the people at home are paying the price and their understanding is not infinite.
madam president, so far 2022 has been a year of trauma and shock. war in europe has returned to compound the escalating cost-of-living crisis. such is the context for us to discuss eu economic planning. the weeks and months ahead are uncertain and we must retain the maximum flexibility to deal with any situation. that means ruling out a return to the fiscal rules in nine months’ time. it is simply not a realistic plan. this brutal russian attack has rightly provoked sanctions from the eu and others. these sanctions are acknowledged not to be cost-free for people living in the eu, and their impact must be considered within the recovery. we must also take into account that we have no clarity yet on the revision of the fiscal rules. even if we achieve the deep and radical reform needed, 2023 is too early. let us not tie the hands of countries as they navigate the unknown. keep the fiscal rules suspended until at least 2024.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the successful future of europe depends on the will to cooperate, including cooperation in economic, social, fiscal and security policy. closer coordination is essential, not only when there is war in europe, but also when we face new challenges and global developments, in order to achieve the best results, to do more for healthy households, innovation, investment, growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion. we have 25 billion euros a year in deficit which we can raise immediately - only through fiscal cooperation and greater coordination. the massive investment in the future that is needed must also be accompanied by substantial structural reforms, because our money and the money of taxpayers should not finance past failures, should not be diverted into dark channels, into nepotism and corruption. we got air up here. more than 50% of all the recommendations we can do better are not implemented by the member states. for sustainable development and social cohesion and less poverty and inequality and more employment, we need more cooperation.
i have to say, madam president, the last two years will never be forgotten. they've been bishops, and they're going to be expensive. we are in the midst of russia's terrible war in ukraine, we have had a severe pandemic with deaths and shutdowns and also long periods of economic decline. crises cost money, and bills have to be paid. many of these bills will be paid by our children. the next generation is the ones who are going to pay off our corona debt, and at the same time they're going to have to pay for climate change, for the necessary green transition, for our security, and also for growing older generations. so we need to take responsibility now if they're gonna have a chance. it is also now that we must modernise the european economy and create the reforms that tighten up outdated economic systems instead of pushing the problems ahead of us. we must stand together to make the eu the economic superpower that it should be - also in the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this vote comes at a pivotal moment: the signs of a lull in the pandemic, a highly uncertain conflict on the doorstep of the european union and finally a forthcoming revision of the rules on economic governance in the european union. all this in a disastrous climate context, as evidenced by the reading of the latest ipcc report. these events combined require caution and responsibility. so, in the face of the enormous uncertainties surrounding eastern europe and their consequences for the european union, we must ensure that the general derogation clause is lifted only when the circumstances justify it in order to support european economies. in view of the possible economic fluctuations, it is still too early to take a firm position in favour of such a lift in 2023, and all options must be considered. on the other hand, in a context of reviewing the rules of economic governance, it is essential - i would even say here in this house - to fully integrate the climate emergency we are facing. i have been advocating for years for a reform of the budgetary rules, including special treatment for green investment. we see how high the price of our dependence on fossil fuels is. the new budgetary rules must therefore encourage a green transition, the only way to really get out of this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european semester is the framework within which the economic and budgetary policies of the countries of the european union are coordinated. now the intervention is intended to change its nature including other subjects that change its objectives and, in addition, with an ideological language such as gender equality, the green, fluid and inclusive transition, climate neutrality, sustainability. a way to put our economy at the service of the united nations sustainable development goals to force social change. where to? behind these euphemisms is a spending spree in a time of crisis and pressing need. it even encourages an increase in taxes on the union. we welcome the references to the protection of the family and the large family and to reconciliation. but we cannot tolerate that education about sexual orientation and gender identity is an integral part of education systems. we will not support any political initiative with ideological intent.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs irene tinagli, on having opened this dossier, because we are going to need coordination of economic and budgetary policies more than ever. but not just any. the pandemic has painfully reminded us that, more than reducing debt and public deficits, it is important to have a pharmaceutical and textile industry, to have a welfare state. the war in ukraine is a shameful reminder that there are more important things than reducing public debt and deficits. there is energy independence, investment in clean energy, renewable energy, not doing business with just anyone, or funding defence. in the face of these tragic events, in the face of climate change, in the face of the probable failure of the russian state, it would be good to stop rediscovering the tepid waters in every crisis and to equip ourselves, to anticipate, as the rapporteur said, with a change in the rules, with a massive plan of investment in sobriety and renewables, with more social justice too, which means more fiscal justice. may europe continue to move forward united and strong, as it has done in recent days.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam prime minister, mr high representative, war has returned to haunt europe. death is knocking at our doors and we must face the facts: despite our efforts and the heroism of the ukrainian people, we have not been able to prevent the war and we are still unable to stop it. of course, we have done a lot in a short time, from sanctions against the russian regime to closing moscow's propaganda channels to arms deliveries to ukraine. but we can see that this is not enough. we must do more to defend the ukrainian people and to defend ourselves. we must learn to do without russian oil and gas. we must arm ukraine even more, not to prolong the conflict, but so that it can protect its civilians caught in the crossfire of russian bombs. we must watch out for moldova, which is hosting so many refugees and is afraid of being vladimir putin's next target. we must protect ourselves by finally significantly increasing our defence efforts. germany is increasing its military budget? well, good, because it's about time. is denmark considering joining the defence europe? he is welcome. but we still have a lot of work to do. military mobility has not made enough progress. our critical infrastructure is not yet sufficiently protected. we must above all strengthen the solidarity of the european countries. i welcome the strengthening of nato's presence in the east, but let us also think of the countries which are not members of the atlantic alliance - i am thinking in particular of sweden and finland. at a time when europe must adopt its strategic compass, let us not hesitate, let us not skimp, let us build the european defence union. it won't be too soon after we've talked about it for so long. let's make sure it's not too late.
madam president, madam prime minister, high representative, russian president putin's war against ukraine is a watershed moment in recent european history. the russian aggression has triggered a tectonic shift in the european union. it's the only positive outcome of the tragic events of the past two weeks. we see that the 27 members can unite, can act together as a geopolitical actor on the global stage. the common foreign and security policy must not remain the weakest link in european integration. european security cannot be negotiated without the european union. the union must finally take greater responsibility for its security and defence, but it must also be able to prevent new vukovar and srebrenica on the continent. it is high time to reaffirm the strategic compass, increase investment in common defence and strengthen strategic autonomy. europe should be at the forefront of establishing a new multilateral agenda. let's take this political momentum of togetherness and match ambition with concrete action. the expectations of our citizens are clear. strengthening their common defence is a priority for them, and the european parliament, as their direct representative, wants and should be equally involved as a partner.
madam president, madam prime minister, mr high representative, he had thought that there would be no ukrainian resistance and he was wrong. he thought the 27 would not be able to react and he was wrong. he thought the americans wouldn't move and he was wrong. he thought the russians would applaud him and he was wrong. this powerful strategist has been wrong about everything and we have only one last point to convince him of: mr putin must now understand that our nations are ready to resist him with arms and by abandoning his gas. we in parliament must call on our 27 governments to stop buying russian gas and oil and to close the skies over ukraine to mr putin. we must thereby demonstrate the will of the european nation to resist this war of aggression which threatens our entire continent. but of course it will then be up to our 27 governments to decide how and when to do so, knowing that they can then rely on our determination and support in their necessary discussion with the nero of the kremlin.
dear prime minister, dear prime minister, colleagues. with putin starting this war, i hope we all learned to listen more carefully to the warnings, because the baltic states have been talking about the kremlin's plans for a long time. second, we're still learning, but we're starting to respond to challenges faster. this is also reflected in the speed with which sanctions have been adopted. thirdly, we have clearly understood that only global partnerships with other countries can produce meaningful results. i hope we have understood that empty talk about the autonomy of the european union will not change the situation, and that we must act with determination and speed. prime minister, what are the chances that the council will decide to abandon russian fossil fuels? and when can we expect a decision on ukraine's invitation to join the european union?
madam president, our duty is to help ukraine because they are suffering an intolerable aggression and because the principles of the international system must be upheld – territorial integrity, no invasions are allowed to change borders, the right to self-determination and third, we believe in solving conflicts through democratic means. so the eu has reacted, but more is needed. military aid must be sped up. let’s not hesitate. war crimes are being committed. we must help the refugees more and better. we need to stop energy imports from russia and broaden sanctions. the eu is willing to impose sanctions against the oligarchs, but that’s not enough. sanctions must also target the bureaucrats at the higher echelons of the russian state. we must extend our pressure to the allies of putin, those who promote autocracy at our borders and also inside the eu. we have awakened. let’s show that we can be better.
madam president, i would like to thank the prime minister for her leadership. let’s say it here in the house: estonia was one of the first countries, if not even the first country, to send weaponry to ukraine. you are showing that in these dramatic circumstances, smaller countries in our union count and can lead by example. so thank you very much for that. but for the rest, let’s not pat ourselves on the back. the sad reality, dear colleagues, is that we are not doing enough for ukraine today. a no-fly zone is not on the radar. our financial sanctions are only targeting seven russian banks. that’s 30% of the russian banking sector. and most importantly, there is still no ban on russian oil and gas. ukraine is fighting for european values and for our democracies while we europeans continue to finance the war machine of putin’s evil. so, in my opinion, it’s time that, after the americans and also the british, we decide on a full temporary ban on russian oil and gas for as long as this aggression is continuing. that is what we need to do. and yes, we will suffer, but we will survive in the coming months. but it is not clear if the ukrainians will survive in the coming months if we don’t take that decision and we don’t need – mr borrell, it’s not to you that i'm saying this, it’s to the commission in general – a fantastic strategic paper to lower our dependency on russian gas. no, that’s for later. what we need now is immediate action and a decision on the european level, to temporarily ban, until the end of the war, russian oil and gas.
madam president, i should like welcome the prime minister back to the european parliament. four points on my side. firstly, thank you, prime minister, for everything that yourself and estonia has been doing in support of ukraine. estonia was one of the first countries to understand the importance of developments in ukraine, to help ukraine even before the invasion. i feel that estonia understands that defending ukraine means defending europe. second point: prime minister, i believe you can continue helping us very much by explaining to the world what the russian federation is doing. your insights, the experience of the estonian people are very important. you have witnessed the provocations of the russian federation. you understand their actions better. you know their vulnerabilities. i believe that explaining this to europe and to the world from your side and the side of the baltic countries is very important. thirdly, i also believe that we should stop buying russian gas because buying russian gas means financing putin’s war. it makes us weaker in terms of security. and fourthly, we have to do more together, use the economies of scale. that means that we will make our armies more modern, more innovative, cheaper. we will be able to do more and better defend ourselves with the same resources. we have to spend more on defence. we should start doing more on security and defence and keep that, because we’ve now understood that russia is a threat and that russia will continue to be a threat.
madam president, prime minister, dear kaja, can i also first give my deep respect and appreciation for what you do. you come from a very small country, and in this case a very vulnerable country, and you take sound political leadership in the eu. thank you very much for that. collega's, de eerste fase van deze oorlog pakt eigenlijk slecht uit voor vladimir poetin. het oekraïense volk is moediger dan ooit. de russische economie heeft het erg moeilijk. bedrijven, oligarchen, maar ook de russische bevolking komen op straat en de autocraat staat er dus redelijk alleen voor. maar we mogen niet denken dat het gemakkelijk gaat worden. het moeilijke ligt nog voor ons. poetin gaat in eerste instantie de oekraïners proberen te verdelen, maar ook de eenheid van de europese unie proberen te breken. het enige antwoord bestaat er dus in samen, in solidariteit, pal te blijven staan door onze navelstreng van gas en olie radicaal door te knippen. we moeten dat doen en we moeten dan solidair zijn onder elkaar, door de oekraïners te steunen met geld en humanitaire hulp én door aan de europese bevolking te laten zien dat we dit samen kunnen, hoe moeilijk het ook wordt. waar poetin verdeeldheid zaait, zal europa antwoorden met eenheid, solidariteit en vertrouwen.
good colleagues, good prime minister! i am very pleased to see the estonian prime minister in the european parliament today, who has been clear and principled in expressing the principles of estonia and europe and in shaping the positions of the european union and nato. but in ukraine, dozens of children have already been killed and hundreds injured. the people of mariupol and other cities are trapped under russian bombs. over two million refugees, most of them women with children. this is affecting the whole of europe. and all this will continue as long as the putin regime continues to slaughter in ukraine. the humanitarian corridors are needed immediately. ukraine must be given everything it needs to defend itself. from planes and other weapons to food and medicine. the money europe pays for gas and oil must no longer be used to finance the russian war machine. all of this can be provided by the free world to help ukraine repel the aggressor. putin's regime has bombed russia out of modern europe. but the european union must also reassess its attitude towards those countries that praise russia's war in ukraine. i see an example of a candidate country for the european union for ukraine. estonia's natural environment in today's world is our membership of the european union and nato. the same opportunity must be given to other peoples of europe. ukraine in the lead. so that a woman who fled her home country with her children will never again say through her tears: 'i had no choice.'
i have to say, madam president, i have been speaking out against nord stream 2 for years, with many colleagues, since 2015. today, there is broad consensus, and we see: in reality, it was not just about weakening and bypassing ukraine, but also about having a free field of fire, because you have a replacement for a pipeline shot down in the war - so putin believed at least. i have also been advocating for arms supplies to ukraine for some time because i had no illusions that a weak opponent is always a temptation for a dictator. that too is now largely a consensus. today i am in favour of lifting all the sanctions now, of imposing a comprehensive boycott of oil, gas and coal now, not just when there is a bombardment of the area like aleppo or grozny. freedom, democracy must always be worth more to us than the higher price of oil and gas. every citizen can sacrifice two degrees for ukraine. turn the heating down two degrees, and together we'll cut off the stalinist dictator in the kremlin's source of income. thank you very much, eesti! i'm going to the slav ukrajini.
we now come to today’s first voting session. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda and the voting session will be open until 13.45. the results of the vote will be announced at 19.00.
we will now continue with the debate with the prime minister of estonia, kaja kallas, on the eu’s role in a changing world and the security situation of europe following the russian aggression and invasion of ukraine (2022/2583(rsp)).
madam president, the spring this year has not come for the children of ukraine. putin's invasion is an illegal and barbaric act, plunging an entire people into destruction and despair. unfortunately, we are living through challenges that we thought were a very ugly and distant past. the blind attachment of european governments to their economic interests has undermined the dangerous imperialist revisionist ideas of putin and erdogan. in a tragic way, it opens a new era. the union must have the means to defend its values against the horrors of tyrannical despotism. the single foreign and defence policy, energy independence, are priorities. the euro-army, the joint armaments programmes, the strong economic sanctions and the arms embargo are tools that can safeguard our prosperity and our borders, from estonia and finland to greece and cyprus. i am not in any way calling for europe to return to militarism, but we must do everything in our power to prevent it from returning.
madam president, madam prime minister, dear kaja, thank you very much for being with us in this hemicycle today. and i also want to join the people who have thanked you for your leadership in these very difficult times. i certainly agree with the assumption that we are in there in this for a long haul. that makes us responsible of making the right decisions today. that demands from us committing adequate resources and building up the european pillar of defence, together with nato. this pillar must not be an oversized construct or an empty buzzword, but a well-funded and coordinated effort, which means, if not today, then when should we reach the 2% of minimum of defence spending in all of europe? but at the moment we need to act as one to paralyze putin. full embargo and the deepest cuts against aggression, combined with maximum military support, air defence, planes to ukraine. thank you. slava ukraini!
madam president, i would like to welcome to the european parliament the prime minister of a neighbouring country, dear kaja. in finland and estonia, we share the same external border with russia, the country that brutally, alone, attacked ukraine. we share historical memories, too. when sweden decided now to send military equipment to russia, it was first time since 1939 – when they helped finland in the winter war. be sure that we are now discussing several proposals to strengthen the union and strengthen our security, and this is done in a democratic way. a new era was brutally started by russia on 24 february. our sanctions were not enough and our actions were not enough after the occupation of crimea, and now we see attacks against a democratic rule—based system and against innocent civilians. the two past weeks show that we have not imposed enough sanctions. the attack on ukraine is not only the concern of a sovereign state, but the horrifying fact that war is in europe. the concern is also for the whole of humanity. it is important to see that crossing the border and breaking the rules also had causes and the international criminal court (icc) is opening an investigation into the alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity in ukraine. the eu has been leading now and transatlantic relations are very important, to be sure. dear president, in this very room, we will have an opportunity this weekend to build a better, more secure europe, by the citizens and for the citizens, when we talk in the conference on the future of europe.
madam president, high representative. kallis kaja, tere tulemast tagasi parlamenti, ainult veidi teises rollis. during the last few days, i have had flashbacks from my years as a correspondent in russia. i covered the first war in chechnya and i saw the catastrophic results of moral decay in the russian army. and a morally decayed or derailed army is something very, very dangerous. and we see the same political decay inside the walls of the kremlin. today, with the tragic results for ukraine, for the young men, for the mothers and the children, we see the result of this moral catastrophe. who wanted this? if you use the words of yevtushenko’s poem ‘khotyat li russkiye voyny?’ (do the russians want war?), there is a sentence saying ‘you ask those soldiers that lie under the birches, and let their sons tell you, ‘khotyat li russkiye voyny’ (whether the russians want war). the russians don’t want the war. the one who’s wanting it is mr vladimir vladimirovich putin. let us make this his last wish.
madam president, i would say to the prime minister that she has just said that her mother taught her that saying ‘i told you’ was rather impolite; it may be impolite, and it won’t change the past, but it can be very useful. i hope that today everybody in this house and every leader in the european union has heard you and has listened to your advice, your proposals and your views. then we won’t need to say ‘i told you’ any more. a resposta a dar a vladimir putin tem de ser uma resposta clara. é tempo agora de banir as compras de gás e de petróleo à rússia. o próximo conselho europeu, este conselho informal, deve dar esse passo. ele implica sacrifícios, implica perdas, mas é a única forma de não estarmos a financiar a guerra de putin, de não estarmos a financiar a destruição da ucrânia.
madam president, mr high representative, the future of europe is being decided in the ruins of mariupol and kharkiv, in the streets of kiev and odessa. if we do not stop putin in ukraine, we will never have peace on our continent. we will not then intervene militarily, but we can do much more than we are doing today. every day we spend over 600 million euros on the war machine that is destroying towns and villages. every day, our imports of gas and oil destroy schools and hospitals. then it's time to end it. yes, this decision will cost our nations, but our states have the means to cope, to help households, to bring in the energy giants. the pandemic is a victory for peace and freedom in europe, no matter what the cost. if the price of inaction is high, the price of action can be raised. ladies and gentlemen, politics is ultimately a question of what price a city is willing to pay for its freedom and sovereignty. the future of ukraine, but also the future of europe, depends on our collective response to this question.
madam president, i do not need to repeat the very correct remarks we have just heard, but i would simply like to recall a point which concerns us all, far beyond these walls. with the invasion of ukraine, it is not only the freedom and sovereignty of the ukrainian people that are threatened - a people to whom we owe our solidarity. these are also the principles necessary for world peace. never, never should a great nation resolve any disagreement by violence. nor can an army ever attack civilians, bombing, as we have seen in the last few hours, targets which have no military need, or even evacuation corridors through which families are fleeing the war. to recall this is not naive idealism, it is a reminder of international law. even war has its rules. a thousand years ago, europe knew that weapons had no rights and paid dearly for every time it forgot. to all the russian forces involved in this conflict, by the destructive will that would have us believe that violence once again prevails over law, we must remind this simple principle: we all have a conscience, we are all responsible, definitely. one day, justice will be served. and now it's time to show what it means to be a man. for us europeans, who for too long believed that the war was behind us, it is time to finally remember that it is a betrayal of the principles we have inherited to be too disarmed to be able to defend them in the face of danger.
madam president, batteries for electric vehicles are now produced in asia. in 2020, the top six global players in the sector captured 86% of the market and all originated from china, south korea and japan. it is important to emphasize the industrial choice on which we depend, which is supposedly ecological, which is imposed on us, but which is far from being unanimous among the experts, because electric batteries are polluting, whatever they say. the european commissioner may talk about the circular economy, recycling and environmental constraints, but this sector raises many questions. battery production is so energy intensive that to call it a green transition is a vast deception. in sweden's lapland, for the installation of a giant battery factory, a forest the size of 70 football fields was cleared. to produce batteries, we need phenomenal amounts of energy. for example, to make a 50 kw battery that will provide a car with 400 km of range, the factory consumes 3 500 kw of electricity, or 60 times more. in the midst of the energy crisis, it's a nightmare. add to this the question of the harmfulness of the raw materials that go into its composition - lead, mercury, lithium and cobalt. it is easy to see that we are dealing with products that are highly dangerous to our health and the environment. the extraction of these resources was the subject of a un report published in 2020 on the production of batteries for electric vehicles. a chapter in this report on cobalt mining and its social and environmental issues raises a number of questions. the report states, for example, that most of the cobalt supplied to world markets comes from the democratic republic of congo, 20% of which comes from artisanal mines in southern katanga, where 40,000 children work. and there are many cases of human rights violations. finally, there is the issue of traceability through a battery passport, which poses a risk of recording motorists, with a clear violation of the right to privacy and the consent of the vehicle owner. faced with these major challenges, why not invest in biofuels and hydrogen, which could provide us with energy independence at a lower social and environmental cost?
madam president, the purpose of this regulation is to reduce the impact on the environment and human health of the use of batteries. that is why we will support it. in addition, by increasing our requirements, in particular for batteries for electric vehicles, we will avoid misleading advertising that presents these vehicles as being more virtuous than they are. and consumer information on this matter will be considerably improved. the targets for reuse and recycling of batteries or for reuse of raw materials are ambitious. this text is also a step towards interoperability of all types of batteries. this will save money for the consumer, since he can reuse these batteries and preserve the appliances, and reduce waste by creating standards to facilitate recycling. in this context, we also support the necessary increase in the collection targets for used batteries. i also thank the rapporteur for having taken account of the amendments tabled by myself and other colleagues in favour of a deposit system for batteries. the commission will study the feasibility and the value of this system and i welcome this progress. in addition to these positive aspects, there are also several negative aspects. in particular, we cannot but regret the fact that the regulation does not take seriously the tragedy of child labour. tens of thousands of children are working in cobalt mines to make batteries. we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that a european regulation is concerned with the conditions under which batteries are produced. amendments from the id group will propose that you reject the use of child labour in the production of batteries used in europe. i invite you to vote for them. finally, while we share the ambitious objectives of this text for the development of sustainable batteries and the reuse of the raw materials that make them up, we are questioning the realism of massive and rapid electrification. the electrification of heating systems, but especially of vehicles in europe, will require the production of hundreds of additional terawatt hours of electricity in the coming years. and the consequences of the russian-ukrainian crisis will also weigh on energy supplies. the electricity generating capacity of our nations will have to be multiplied. how do you intend to meet this demand? it is not the purpose of this text, of course, to answer that question, but we know that making batteries clean for charging with coal-fired power stations is nonsense.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, at last! finally, the 8th environment action programme which i am sure we will adopt today will be able to enter into force, albeit with a delay of one and a half years due to the health crisis, but it is nevertheless absolutely urgent to have key indicators to assess our progress in implementing the green deal. with this environment action programme, we now have a compass to 2030 so that our results match our objectives. it will enable the european union to create the conditions for sustainable growth within planetary boundaries so that the ecological transition creates new jobs and contributes to the well-being of our citizens. the agreement we reached in the trilogue is a good agreement and i would like to take this opportunity to thank mrs grace o'sullivan for her excellent work. it creates a clear but effective action programme, which identifies concrete initiatives rather than multiplying administrative burdens. it focuses on the essentials, i.e. our environmental and climate policies, without calling into question our main economic instruments. it is this clarity that will make it a useful programme for the future. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i shall naturally vote in favour of this text and i am counting on you to do the same.
madam president, parliament must once again take a decision on the environment action programme. the european citizens will be delighted to learn that they will have to go to the bank once again to feed the commission's insane ambitions, they who have already forcedly consented to the sacrifices imposed here. all in the name of a policy that is more punitive than it is environmentally friendly and dictated by pseudo-environmentalists who have never left the city centre of the brussels capital. deadlines are shorter than ever and the agricultural sector is identified as one of the main culprits of environmental degradation. you are demanding zero pollution, which is as absurd as it is utopian, and you want to see an end to fossil fuels. the ambition is good, but the point is to define the ecological policy of the european union and not to recite the psalms of the greta thunberg sect. how can we have so little regard for our industries, our small and mediumsized enterprises or our farmers? how can we ask for efforts from those who have been dying for years, who find out every year that their bill will increase and their income will decrease? the answer is simple: those who write these regulations know absolutely nothing about the social and economic reality of our continent. their green ideology is based on international conferences and lunch-time debates in european capitals, not on dialogue with the main stakeholders. no one here can deny the degradation of our environment, the loss of our biodiversity or the extinction of species. but the solutions you propose are always the same and serve no purpose other than to provoke the anger of our people once again. to top it all off, instead of adding a paragraph on localism, the essential support for nuclear energy or the promotion of european products, you repeatedly mention discrimination and gender. congratulations, your quota of leftist references has been reached! where in this text do we find the denunciation of free trade agreements? nowhere. producing on the other side of the world, in countries that do not care about the environment, and bringing these goods home is the number one source of pollution. where in this text is the promotion of relocation found? nowhere. where is the defense of industrial self-sufficiency reducing the carbon bill of transport? nowhere. where in the text is research encouraged? again, nowhere. a green europe is possible, but it requires common sense, dialogue and unabashed environmental protectionism.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is a reality that cannot be contested in any way and the sustainability of economic sectors can be affected in the medium and long term. in this context, we all need to become actors involved in combating these climate changes that affect the quality of our daily lives. the european union has shown that it can and must be a world leader in this. the european objectives set so far are ambitious, whether it is the conservation of biodiversity, the protection of forests or the sustainable use of land. but today, on the borders of the european union, in ukraine, there is a war that, in my opinion, forces us, and i stress this, forces us to adapt to new realities that cannot be ignored. european leaders have already voiced their support for a responsible and forward-looking energy policy, which is crucial not only for our economy but also for our environment and our security. reducing dependence on russian gas can only be done by developing renewable sources. the european union, now more than ever, needs to take immediate and concrete action to mitigate the side effects of both climate change and war, because conflict, beyond humanitarian issues, creates market disruption, from energy, to shipping, but above all to agriculture, and i stress again, above all to agriculture. i would point out that the european agricultural sector is already facing major challenges from the pandemic, the increase in fertiliser and energy prices, and its capacity and resilience are seriously affected, endangering food security. i call on the european commission, in this extremely complicated context, to adapt the current climate objectives so that food security, not just at the level of the european union, but at the global level, is guaranteed for the future.
i have to say, madam president, thank you to the commissioner and especially to you, grace, for a very fine effort. and while we could have wished for a higher level, there are many good things in the text. i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize the overall picture. we must stop thinking in boxes if we are to deal with the climate crisis, the destruction of nature, the soil erosion, the misuse of drinking water, the rampant pollution, and so on. only if we see them in context will we have a chance. the solutions often reinforce each other. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one. instead of being in conflict, they can help each other. coastal wind turbines create artificial reefs with lots of life and fish and shellfish and food for birds and marine mammals in our devastated marine environment. it's very bad up north, anyway. in addition, large wind turbines disturb the landscape less than small ones, since the wings run more slowly and more quietly. so we'll have to take that, too. and solar cells are not pretty. - i know. but they can make room for plenty of nature with insects, small animals and birds. if we work together like this, we can win on all the plates. and we need it if we are to realise the environmental action programme and the other parts of the green transition. there's no time to waste!
madam president, the outcome of the trilogue negotiations on this eighth programme confirms improvements in several respects compared with the commission's initial proposal, but also a retreat from parliament's more ambitious mandate. we have said this before and we will say it again: the positive elements of this programme are in conflict with the policies of the european union, which this proposal does not reject, of a neoliberal and mercantilist nature, of the plundering of resources and exploitation of nature for profit, of the concentration of activity in large economic groups and of solutions to the environmental problems which condition the public nature of policies and services, limiting this dimension to the assumption of costs without safeguarding the common good. what about the perverse and ineffective market approaches that enshrine the right to pollute, such as emissions trading; or the so-called just and green transitions, under the pretext of which, as in my country, we rush to close important strategic industrial units, generating unemployment, replacing national production with imports and imposing greater external dependence and without evidence of real environmental gains; or policies that liberalize the productive sectors, which counter necessary responses that allow short-circuits of trade, valuing production and national sovereignty in various fields; or mobility policies, which insist on the promotion of individual transport, when what is needed is the promotion of mass transport on a public transport service and its intermodality and progressive free of charge; or the deregulation and liberalization of trade policies with harmful environmental and social impacts; or the dramatic environmental impacts of war, economic policy and military armament, or the dramatic human and political consequences of war, or of a military industry with its own weapons? a change in environmental policy is needed, a policy aimed at preserving the balance of nature and its ecological systems and ensuring the democratization of access to and use of nature, combating the commodification of the environment and its ideological exploitation.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to take a moment to thank my colleague, mrs grace o'sullivan, who, as rapporteur on this text, has done a wonderful job in a delicate negotiation with the council. i particularly welcome its determined action to maintain a reference to the need to phase out subsidies encouraging the use of fossil resources. it is not without reason that we are discussing this text at the very special time we are living in today. war, with its train of misfortune, is back at our doorstep. the impact is immense and everything must be done in the short term to end this conflict and mitigate its effects on the world's population. but at this particular moment we must keep our heads, and this report reminds us of the compass we must have for the long term. in fact, colleagues, climate change and the collapse of biodiversity are the ultimate threats that we must absolutely face. but fortunately, where there's a will, there's a way. and as the report rightly points out, the path to sobriety is also a path to human prosperity. i would add that it is also a path of sovereignty, a path that reduces our dependencies while avoiding self-sufficiency and withdrawal. i would naturally ask all my colleagues to vote in favour of this excellent report and i hope that it will serve as a salutary reminder to those of us who, in the face of understandable emotions of the moment, might doubt the validity of the green deal.
mr president, yesterday in brittany a 43-year-old farm worker was bitten by a machine used to sow grass. he's dead, you know. two days ago in yonne, in a company that makes sofas and chairs, a 50-year-old worker who had started work at 5 a.m. was run over by a machine. in france, more than 800 people die at work every year. this is the highest figure in the european union. emmanuel macron, who, as you know, is the man who is currently presiding over the council of the european union, once said: 'the life of an entrepreneur is often much harder than that of an employee. we must never forget that because he, the entrepreneur, can lose everything. how dare he do that? it's the workers who risk their lives every day at work. two thirds of the deaths at work are workers and the problem will not be solved by putting an accident meter at the entrance of the factories, much like in the simpsons movie or at the entrance of the amazon warehouses. as if work accidents were only a matter of motivation, the fault of the workers. it is not because workers are dizzy, it is not because they are clumsy that there are accidents and deaths at work - do we need to repeat it? and this is not a fate either. all of this is the result of policy choices that encourage a profit-driven race where human capital is seen as a cost, as a burden. productivity first, and safety, we'll see about that later. the answer is political. we must stop this race for profit, improve working conditions. the labour inspectorates must be given more resources in a very concrete way by doubling the number of inspectors who ensure that the law and safety are respected. and not only must the committees on health, safety and working conditions, or chsct, which macron, with his hat of president of the french republic, had abolished as soon as he was elected, be re-established, but their resources must also be increased. working kills, and that's unacceptable.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me today to speak on this report, in general, and on the commission's report on fair and simplified taxation. fair is a strong and important word. but fair taxation for whom? for the weak? for smes? for social justice? who are we defending in this courtroom? what model should we build for a resilient europe, better protected against crises? i am thinking in particular of our smes. structures that are dear to my heart and so mishandled in recent years. these smes account for 99% of enterprises in the european union and are responsible for two out of three private sector jobs. they are rooted in our territories and they are the economic and social fabric of our societies. they're human-sized. they are our future and we must protect them against geopolitical hazards, but also and above all against the model that is destroying them economically. while stock market profits are exploding, it is still the companies that bear the brunt of the cost of the crisis, despite the warnings and studies that have been issued to denounce this scandal. how will they survive, caught between the hammer of multinationals that escape taxation and the envelope of cyberisation that is levelling the european social model from the bottom up? without radical changes, their margins and their uses will not survive this current sequence. the report recalls that €190 billion is missing from the coffers of european states because of the holes in the racket. these are not the smes' money, but the money of our system for tax optimisation. so let us tackle this unfair taxation which undermines democracy and encourages the transfer of dirty money. there are solutions.
president. - mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr von der vring, for his excellent report. the power to tax people is essential to the existence of the national government. that's right, "national government". paying taxes is a necessary evil. if you ever want to be in a short line, get in the line of people who feel they are undertaxed. but it is necessary to pay for public services and to fund a social safety net for the most vulnerable. paying taxes connects the citizen with the government. the european union is not a government: there is no national government, no federal government, not even a supranational government. the european union is an international organisation to which countries have transferred certain powers under the guise of the common market. taxation is the responsibility of national governments. it is good that the eu's role in taxation is limited. the commission has only been given a coordinating role when the common market is at stake. but the eu is over-ambitious and is systematically trying to take over powers. and that is what we see today in a resolution which has a seemingly noble purpose, namely to tackle tax evasion and to speed up the settlement of tax disputes. unfortunately, as is so often the case in this house, a kind of christmas tree is hung with wishes. the harmonization of the criteria for tax residence is unacceptable, since it affects the freedom of member states in tax matters. there are also suggestions to circumvent the unanimity rule in tax matters. the resolution also calls for the adoption of a new directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. for these reasons we will not support this proposal.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, in recent decades, while multinationals and the wealthy have benefited from multiple and generous benefits, exemptions and various instruments of aggressive tax planning, the tax burden on workers' incomes and indirect taxes have been increasing. micro and small enterprises have also been hit hard by unfair tax policies. this is also a matter for the european union, and it is an undeniable phenomenon, as is the complacency with tax havens inside and outside the european union which allow profits, income and property of multinationals and large fortunes to be parked, which it is urgent to eradicate and which the report virtually ignores. the report does not contain the necessary answers to the demand for fiscal justice advocated by its title, rejecting supranational tax harmonization which takes account of the fiscal sovereignty of each state. what is lacking is the introduction of measures at national level which translate into measures of cooperation between states where necessary. a fairer tax policy, linked to the budgetary dimension, requires taxation to evolve in order to secure investment and to support the financing of the social functions of the state, by taxing workers, as well as micro and small enterprises, and by obliging the wealthy, multinationals and large economic groups to a higher and more appropriate tax burden. it requires tax authorities with robust means, taxation of profits where they are generated, taxation of financial transactions of multinational companies in the digital sector, luxury goods and large fortunes, contributing to economic recovery and relief for households.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur and agree that the subject is extremely important, especially in these challenging circumstances. the covid-19 pandemic has already had a severe impact on the functioning of the european and global economies, leading to a reduction in tax revenues and, of course, in debt and expenditure. the result of such negative trends is an increase in government debt, which can also lead to, of course, long-term macroeconomic consequences for the european union and the member states. small and medium-sized enterprises, which form the so-called backbone of the european economy, are particularly affected. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the tax base of the member states, in particular the impact of the measures on the tax base of the member states. on the other hand, the costs of tax-compliant smes account for as much as 30% of their tax burden. for large companies, on the other hand, they make up two percent. the citizens are aware of the problem and are demanding an immediate solution. when we talk about taxation, we have to be aware that we will never find that satisfactory level, but without taxes, states simply cannot function. i welcome the commission's proposal to promote fair taxation of businesses and citizens, increased transparency and trust in society, fair competition based on coordinated and digitised reporting systems. on the other hand, i also call for caution when we talk about value added tax, because it is an important and specific tool for the public budgets of all the member states. we are aware that many finance ministers have had to balance in the past almost two years, that it was not easy, that there were many challenges, that it was necessary to meet both small and medium-sized enterprises, the economy in general. we've had a lot of unemployment, challenges, especially in the republic of croatia, in tourism, which gets most of its budget from the tourism sector, so please think about that. vat is indeed a tool that ensures stability and public finances.
mr president, when preparing this debate, i thought, what a mess the vat is. and i was last year approached by a small business owner, she organises one-off events across europe and she faces a different nightmare every time. endless forms in german or in spanish, piles of documents to send around and high consultancy costs. for a one-off event in rome, this amounted to eur 11 000, 10% of her profits, and this i dare to say is the single biggest barrier to the eu’s internal market. and at the same time, the mess enables fraud. some eur 50 billion, we know or is estimated, is lost each year due to cross-border vat fraud. so we need to tackle also this crisis, this vat crisis head on. and i congratulate luděk niedermayer and other shadows for drafting a report that does just that. his proposals can unleash a boost of economic activities for smes and tackle the outbursts of fraud in vat. and there’s more contributions in this report, but let me single out one, which i hold dear, and that is the eu tax observatory. what we need in order to have an informed policy debate is fact-based independent research. this is what we’re lacking. the eu tax observatory can help there, so we need to make it permanent. to come back to where i started and president i will be quick – i want to tell the conference organiser that a problem will be addressed with this report. i am more confident in doing so.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report starts with a relentless observation: the tax burden has shifted from wealth to income, from capital to income from labour and consumption, from multinational companies to smes, from the financial sector to the real economy, with a shift in the tax burden from the most mobile to the least mobile taxpayers. he lists proposals to reverse this situation and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this and on the working atmosphere, which seems to have been very good and very constructive during the various negotiations. vat, in fact, reflection on the question of smes... all this is in the right direction, but i think that today the context has changed. europe has changed in less than a week. we are now talking about europe, defence, the need to get out of fossil fuels as a matter of urgency, inflation, the economic crisis, social crises. i believe that if we are to be able to help the economy without making the debt problem even more difficult, we will have to break a number of taboos once again, including the tax taboo we are discussing here. we need a serious, robust list of tax havens, perhaps new forms of solidarity tax. and then to break the last taboo, which prevents us from moving forward from a fiscal point of view: the question of unanimity.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we hear about a report on withholding tax, it may at first sight seem anecdotal, a little technical, at any rate anything but political, especially when we consider the scale of what needs to be done in the area of tax havens. and then we listen to pedro marques, we read his report, we realize and we understand. he reminds us on this occasion - and we remind him on this occasion - of a robbery worth €140 billion, according to the latest estimates, the biggest robbery in europe. the victims are the states, we the citizens; the parties involved are the lawyers, the banks; the name of the game is dividend arbitrage. the first type of pattern: cumcum. it's simple: to avoid paying dividend tax, foreign owners of listed securities dispose of their shares at the right time. just when they have to pay the tax, some banks collect it for a commission and then give it back to them. the second type of fraud is cumex. this is the jackpot, because not only do the owners of the securities not pay taxes, but they also get a refund of imaginary taxes that they never paid. without the whistleblowers, without a consortium of journalists, we would not have known about this whole situation. and it is precisely to combat this type of fraud - and many others that we probably do not know about - that withholding tax makes sense, that we understand its usefulness and that we also understand its political dimension. so i thank pedro marques for his consistency on this subject. thank you for these highly political proposals. we now expect the commission to take this into account and follow the recommendations of this report, including on the exchange of information and on the question of the effective minimum taxation for dividends.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president of the commission, i first of all regret the absence of mrs von der leyen. but i am happy to be able to convey to you, on behalf of my fellow french citizens, questions about the transparency, or rather the opacity, surrounding your actions. covid-19 has created a world of rights-free emergency cover. transparency, especially when it comes to the health of our children, is fundamental. and so far, this cannot be said to be the virtue of the commission. billions of euros for billions of doses of vaccines ordered from 'big pharma' while they are still in the clinical trial stage and their efficacy is in question. the scandal of the purchase of the remdesivir drug - which i do not forget - by your commission should have alerted you. one billion euros for gilead laboratory, for 500,000 doses of this treatment, while at the same time negative results were published for it. in your global vaccination strategy, you sent rejected or expired astrazeneca vaccines, thousands of which had to be destroyed by nigeria. will you shed any light on these failures? why are entire pages of these vaccine purchase contracts hidden? these grey clauses relate in particular to the absence of laboratory liability in the event of undesirable side effects. why such clauses of irresponsibility? why did you hide the price of the doses? who's going to pay for the unwanted side effects? why does the european commission insist on not passing on to the european ombudsman the exchanges of sms messages between the ceo of pfizer and the president of the european commission? to mrs von der leyen, who is absent: do not ask the member states today to consider a vaccine obligation when we are unable to answer all these questions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have listened to you very carefully, commissioner: we want, we must, we need. for three years we have been waiting for the commission to deliver on the promise of its president and to come forward with a strategy - really a strategy - for sustainable textiles. this industry employs millions of people worldwide under mostly exploitative conditions. the production methods use and pollute vast amounts of water. the figures are mentioned in the debate. much of this injustice is only fueling the glut in the richer nations of the world. a new example: each european woman and man consumes on average 26 kilograms of textiles a year, of which 11 kilograms are thrown away. the commission's efforts to achieve the sustainability objectives set out in the green deal must be made concrete. we need a right to decent work along the supply chains. we need a legally binding responsibility of european companies to prevent environmental crime in production. we need to limit the total quantity of textiles that can be imported into the eu at reduced customs duties. we need to promote recycling in the textile sector - in concrete terms, in a binding way. so do not continue to fall behind the will of the people, behind progress. in the european cities of fair and ethical trade, ghent and malmö, the demand for in this sense clean textiles is particularly booming. if the eu commission finally acted, it would also serve to protect businesses and workers who produce under better and fairer conditions inside and outside the eu.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the big change in sustainability is affecting all sectors of production, as well as the way we live, move and work. and that is why the manufacturing sector must also be supported, the textile industry must be supported in this transformation, and i say intentionally supported, because it is a matter of putting together public strategies and also of having the appropriate private initiative, in short, of working together to correct wrong behaviour and choices that are no longer sustainable and, at the same time, to take advantage of all the opportunities that this sector can offer. it is a sector - and that is why, commissioner, we are very sorry that the commission has not presented the strategy that was promised. i said that this is a sector of great value, not only in terms of production volume and weight in production, but also as a way of enhancing our creative capacities, we think of how many young people, how many young talents in the creative and artistic fields work in fashion, and also as a commercial value, because there are very, very significant volumes of consumption and distribution throughout the european market, as well as, of course, outside europe. so we know the sustainability issues related to the materials that are used and the harmful substances, it was said, and quoted by colleagues earlier, that are used in production processes, and then they cover the whole part related to disposal and recycling under the banner of the circular economy. we know these issues, but i want to touch on two aspects which often take a back seat but which, in my view, are equally important. and speaking of the end of life cycle, especially in fast fashion, there's a whole huge volume of, let's say, products that are harvested poorly and disposed of poorly, but there's also a need, a great opportunity to give an outlet to the whole range of ngos and volunteers that these garments recover and bring into the market of donation and solidarity. this is an important chapter for europe, if we say that social solidarity is also a distinctive feature of our economy. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. finally, due diligence, which has been cited. i think that as europeans we must be responsible for everything we consume, even if we do not produce it here, and for each product, for each commodity we should ask ourselves where it comes from, how it was extracted or produced, what chain of control is there in the whole process of diffusion, of arrival in europe, and then also how they work there: in that product, i'm talking about textiles, they have worked children, they have worked women workers, slave women, for example in bangladesh, who live locked up in some sheds and can't even go home at night. i think these questions are part of our european responsibility. the textile sector must become an example, even of due diligence.
madam president, commissioner, ensuring socially fair and ecologically responsible supply chains cannot be an exception, and many voluntary initiatives have been pioneering: fairtrade standards, the sustainability pact, oecd guidelines, un guiding principles. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be given the opportunity to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. the european union remains above all a normative power. it has a duty to set high environmental and social standards to shape the globalisation of tomorrow. after two postponements and more than one and a half years of preparation, the commission presents its proposal on the duty of due diligence of undertakings. this is a real step to change globalisation. we must not compromise any more. we must ensure that all businesses - large, medium and small - fulfil their part of the contract in the service of respect for fundamental rights, social progress and environmental protection. the textile sector deserves special attention. we need a strategy of our own to ensure that the clothes we import, that we wear, are not the result of forced labour, child labour or environmental destruction. and this strategy must go hand in hand with the creation of an instrument prohibiting the import of goods, especially in textiles, produced by forced labour. it is a question of credibility in defending our values and it is the only way to stop condoning chinese practices with the uyghur minority.
madam president, i want to talk to you about barsa. barsa, who died in the ruins of rana plaza after spending her life producing cheap clothes for pennies, exposed to over 8,000 toxic substances - chlorine derivatives, dyes, phthalates and pesticides. like barsa, 60 million women workers are exposed to toxic and dangerous chemicals on a daily basis. i say workers because 80% of the textile workers are women and it was in the textile sector that the first women's strikes took place in many countries. on the other side of the world, in chile, i want to tell you about rosa. rosa lives with her family in the atacama desert, where 39,000 tonnes of fast fashion waste from western countries pollute the air, soil and groundwater. fast fashion is responsible for 10% of carbon emissions, 20% of water waste, 500,000 tonnes of microplastics in the ocean and more than 12 kilos of waste per european per year. barsa and rosa don't exist, but they could have. and it is precisely because the tragedies are so real that the european union, a major consumer of textiles, must finally put in place a sustainable strategy based on the duty of vigilance for the entire textile value chain. a strategy for the planet, for social rights and for women's rights, so that men and, therefore, especially women who work for "fast fashion" or who pick up the waste of overconsumption are never ignored again.
author. madam president, culture is the memory of the people, the collective consciousness of historical continuity, the way of thinking and living. this sentence by milan kundera reminds us that every time you attack the culture of a people, you are trying to destroy it. we saw it when the taliban blew up the buddhas of bamiyan. we saw it again when daesh destroyed the temple of nimrod, the shrines of mosul or the lion of palmyra. on 3 february, the minister of culture of azerbaijan announced the establishment of a working group on the heritage of nagorno-karabakh. it is true that since the armed conflict in autumn 2020, nearly 1,500 monuments have come under the control of azerbaijan. among them, 161 armenian churches or monasteries, 345 tombstones, 591 stelae. so there would be grounds for their protection. but there is, in fact, cause for alarm about what the azerbaijani minister intends to do. on 15 march 2021, president aliyev travelled to tsakuri, in the hadrut region; in front of a 12th century church, he promised to erase the armenian inscriptions on it. other churches have already been destroyed. the pretext was to do justice to the culture of the caucasian albanians. if you don't know what it is, don't worry, no reputable historian can attest to it. if you are wondering whether there is really anything to worry about, know that between 1997 and 2006, 89 armenian churches, 5,800 statues and more than 22,000 graves, including those in the armenian cemetery of djoulfa, were razed by azerbaijan in the nakhchivan enclave. baku denies any destruction and insists on the bad trial it would be given. azerbaijan claims that armenia bears responsibility for the destruction of azerbaijani heritage in the first nagorno-karabakh conflict. it is possible, and if so, it must be condemned. but then why is azerbaijan preventing unesco from doing its job and sending a mission of experts to the site, as proposed since november 2020. it is, however, the role of the un organisation to intervene within the framework of the 1954 convention for the protection of cultural property in the event of armed conflict. today i call on the minsk group co-chairs to intervene with azerbaijan. i call on the european union to use the privileged links of the eastern partnership to obtain clear assurances from baku that the armenian heritage will be preserved. i call on unesco not to be intimidated, but also on other actors on the ground, such as aliyev, to finally act. let's listen to what sigmund freud taught us: everything that works for culture works against war.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, while all our eyes are rightly focused on ukraine, another european country is suffering martyrdom, unfortunately far from the cameras and the diplomatic agitation. this country is armenia, this people is the armenian people, cruelly let go by everyone in the fall of 2020. armenia continues to suffer today. in nagorno-karabakh, the territory disputed with azerbaijan, azerbaijani troops are destroying the armenian cultural heritage of this region, with the aim of driving the armenian population from this territory. i was in yerevan a short while ago and i saw firsthand the suffering of the armenian people in the face of this continuing war. we were rightly moved by the destruction of the mausoleums in timbuktu by the islamic state. but who cares about the cultural cleansing that threatens the borders of the european continent? monasteries, churches and tombstones, 1 500 armenian cultural monuments are threatened with destruction. such acts have already taken place in the past in nakhchivan, where in 2006 azerbaijan had the necropolis of the ancient armenian city of jufa razed. these acts threaten to be repeated today, when it seems that azerbaijan has just created a working group whose activities will consist in erasing the armenian "fictional inscriptions" from the religious or historical monuments of nagorno-karabakh. if all the destruction of cultural heritage is to be blamed, wherever it takes place, throughout the world, this threat obliges us in particular to this brotherly, christian and european people.
madam president, commissioner, one war must not make another one go away. even today, in armenia, in nagorno-karabakh, families are waiting for the return of prisoners of war illegally detained by azerbaijan, abused, used as bargaining chips. military personnel and civilians are regularly targeted by azerbaijani soldiers, in violation of ceasefire commitments. yesterday, the village of khnushinak was hit by mortar fire, and this morning, khramort. but it is not only the living who die. president aliyev also wants to kill history, like the taliban in bamiyan, like daesh in the levant. since the end of the war, dozens of monuments, churches, khatchkars, have been deliberately destroyed in a foolish denialist attempt to erase the millennia-old traces of armenian presence on these lands, which the azeri government very officially declares to be fiction. the ultimate violence which, by depriving a people of its right to decide its own destiny, also seeks to rob it of the very trace of its existence. violence which affects us all, because this priceless heritage is also ours. it's a treasure of mankind. our resolution today affirms the urgency of a unesco mission to verify the protection of armenian heritage now. if this resolution is not implemented, the european union must suspend its funding to azerbaijan, as no support is due to a state that violates international law and its own commitments. europe has now realised this and must finally be present alongside armenia in a concrete way.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr president, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, our unprecedented response to the russian invasion of ukraine has created a feeling of unity throughout europe. the images of suffering and desolation from ukraine must encourage us to go further in sanctions, in aid to that country and in strategic autonomy. the senseless brutality of the russian attacks on civilians must not go unanswered. tougher sanctions are needed to cut off funding to the regime and to coordinate the reception of refugees to avoid a humanitarian catastrophe. but let us be honest, and i say this also to the groups which are campaigning today to go further: why do the next steps seem to be more difficult for europe? why is the cost of our engagement with the ukrainian people so high for europe today? this is because europe does not yet have all the tools of its power, and this is not a new observation. this parliament my group in particular has consistently supported the geopolitical ambition of the european commission since 2019; but it would be naive to think that we will achieve this without a profound revolution in our internal organisations, our economy and our community strategy. the european power is demanding energy independence. yes, the urgency is to diversify our supplies, but in the long run we cannot replace one dependency with another. this programme linked to the green deal must also be reviewed and, certainly, accelerated. we have seen that europe-power demands food sovereignty, and we also have a resolution to vote on this subject in the european parliament today. we need to continue our transition while ensuring mass production, to meet protein needs and also avoid world hunger. europe as a power also requires strategic autonomy from an industrial point of view. we need to invest heavily in the sectors of the future and secure our supplies of raw materials: this is also an opportunity to create millions of jobs and to revitalise our economy. finally, europe-power is a demand for european defence, closely linked to nato and our own ambition. the socialist group recalled that, to make our strategic compass operational, we know that 5,000 soldiers in a rapid intervention force will not be enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are ready to work on a fund for european strategic autonomy, mr president-in-office, to share the costs and consequences of this war and to keep the reforms on track, if not to prolong and extend them. at that price, but without the status quo, we will be able to fulfil our sole duty: to protect our european citizens and defend our allies, whatever else is going on in the world.
madam president, while the russian invasion is being accompanied by an escalation of armaments and sanctions by the european union, the united states and nato, the people are paying for it in lives, refugees, very expensive fuel, energy and food. the bargaining and the opposition in the european council to the involvement of the united states in the energy embargo on russia, in joint orders, in the guarantee of the gold-plated sufficiency of the already very expensive imported natural gas, does not bode well for the people. on the contrary, the eu's green transition strategy, the energy exchange, anticipates the anti-people terms of such agreements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. these are lucrative agreements for the groups, with the basic condition that the people pay handsomely for their profits. now let us intensify the struggle for the abolition of indirect taxes, green taxes on fuels and energy with a ceiling per kilowatt hour, for power and economy with a planned use of all forms and sources of energy for the needs of the people, so that energy ceases to be a commodity!
madam president, two weeks ago, just before the versailles summit, i spoke modestly in strasbourg to this house to remind it that, in matters of european defence, we do not need to reinvent the wheel, or the tepid or the hot water, as we like, and that everything exists. all the tools are at our disposal. while welcoming certain initiatives, such as the abundant and welcome use of the european peace facility to deliver arms to ukraine, i still find that the conclusions of the versailles summit are very far from what was expected. there is a lot of complacency, but above all there are a lot of declarations of intent. i will take just one example, which is very important because it concerns capabilities, our military equipment, which is something that everyone agrees that efforts should be made on today. point 11 of the versailles conclusions: 'we invite the commission, in coordination with the european defence agency, to present an analysis of defence investment deficits by mid-may'. why wait until mid-may? i shall relieve the commission of this task: it is all in the annual report of the european defence agency. the 2020 report lists six priority areas for action. better, the document of the european defence agency refers to the conclusions of 14 november 2016. if you compare the conclusions of the november 2016 council with those of the versailles summit, you will find many differences. so now, enough of the declarations of intent, enough of the complacency: we must act. we can't afford to lose another six years.
madam president, it may be difficult, costly and painful, yet we have to make everything possible to assist ukraine in defeating the empire of evil. first, by imposing further sanctions and thus stopping financing of the russian war machine. then, to assist in combating the aggressor. last but absolutely not least, to bring all perpetrators of war crimes and crimes against humanity – each and every one, not only putin – to justice. god bless ukraine.
madam president, while everybody was looking at ukraine, spain has recognised the sovereignty of morocco over the western sahara. spain is ignoring the right of self-determination and international law. pedro sánchez is dancing to the tune of an autocratic regime and is opening a crisis with algeria. the council needs to be paying attention to this. why have they done this? perhaps because of ceuta and melilla, perhaps because of the control of immigration that they want to give to morocco. why is the commission ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would ask you to adhere to the agenda, otherwise i shall have to interrupt you. as you know, we have a policy that applies to everyone, no one excluded.
but it’s not right to be looking the other way on the affair of western sahara. yet again, spain’s nationalistic pride is dragging the union away from international law and democratic ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i think we can go further because the honourable member is not adhering to our agenda. as you know, the rules apply to everyone, and so i regret to have to take your word. i'm sorry, but it is. we have made a rule for ourselves that applies to everyone and that we respect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the unacceptable invasion of ukraine by russia will bring about a sea change in the european union. the council of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow will have to deal with the great question of a europe which must be politically stronger to defend its values, but which must also aim at self-sufficiency. self-sufficiency of the defence: the compass is therefore a good step forward in the european union's single defence as an instrument of foreign policy. industrial self-sufficiency: we need european microchips. food self-sufficiency: we cannot be subject to the whims of moscow and other powers. energy self-sufficiency: we must make progress towards the single energy market, with a gas price ceiling and single stock purchases, to allow europe to be free and not be forced into blackmail by either russia or other countries. that is why we need strong action also from an economic point of view, we need to postpone the stability pact, we need a recovery with bonds to have more money and we need the central bank to continue with quantitative easing.
madam president, commissioner, we owe the ukrainian people, those men and women who have been fighting for 27 days against the brutal aggression of russia to defend their land, to defend their homeland and to defend the fundamental values that are ours, immense respect. so our message to the european council is simple, finally: to welcome with dignity these millions of refugees who knock on our door and guarantee the right to education for their children and the right to social assistance and to a decent job for their parents. beyond the sanctions to be checked or added against the regime of vladimir putin, the european union must apply the same method, in substance, that which has worked well for the management of the pandemic: i am talking about group purchases, that good spanish idea presented to the council in october, if i remember correctly, and to which i have referred several times in this forum. the commission is also proposing an agreement on the capping of energy prices for next winter. this is the only way to help european households keep their heads above water. in europe, since last january, the price of gas has more than tripled. this is unbearable. i conclude, madam president: europe must show solidarity both with the ukrainians who are paying the price of blood and with all those european households which are today on the verge of poverty.
madam president, 18 billion is the amount we have paid to vladimir putin for the past month, since he launched his aggression against ukraine, for the mere purchase of fossil fuels. that's $18 billion that's financing his war. our answer must be based on an accelerated phase-out of fossil fuels. but in our country, in france, an energy giant like total still does not understand that profits cannot be made at the expense of the climate and human rights. we need a quick and definitive way out to stop funding the current war and to avoid future conflicts due to climate change. but where are the major works for renovation and energy efficiency, or for interconnections and renewable energy? where's the ban on private jet flights or empty flights? where is the much needed aid for solar energy in algeria? where is the call to industry to replace the 64% of gas it consumes with heat pumps or alternative solutions? no, the solutions you are proposing today - the long-term extension of the schist gas contracts like those of engie, the construction of multiple gas infrastructures or the permanent storage of gas - only move the problem, to the detriment of the very peace we claim to defend.
thank you, dear colleagues. thank you once again, prime minister, for being with us. we look forward to having you here quite soon again. that concludes the debate.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the need for an urgent eu action plan to ensure food security inside and outside the eu in the light of the russian invasion of ukraine (2022/2593 (rsp)). since we now want to move towards normalcy, at least as far as parliamentary work in the plenary is concerned, i would point out that you can use your voting machine to request spontaneous reports and use blue cards after you have inserted your voting card. i therefore ask you to bring your voting card with you at all times. the instructions are in the chamber for those who have forgotten them in the meantime. if you wish to register for a spontaneous debate, i would ask you to do so now and not wait until the end of the debate. this gives us an overview of the number of members who wish to speak. i would also point out that the plenary sessions will continue to be held from the central podium. this does not apply to spontaneous speeches, blue cards and statements on the rules of procedure. these are carried out on the spot. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one of the dramatic consequences of the war organized by russia against ukraine, which we are only seeing today, is the question of food, of our agriculture and our food. this aggression by russia against ukraine will have - we already know and we can see in part - significant effects on agricultural and food markets, because the two countries, the russian aggressor and the ukrainian victim, together account for almost 30% of world exports of wheat and barley, and are in particular key exporters of maize and vegetable oil. we also know that russia has traditionally played a central role in the world fertilizer trade, which has benefited our european agriculture economically. we also know that for more than 60 years now, food security and agricultural production have been at the very heart of our common agricultural policy. this common agricultural policy, i remind you, is the first of the european policies we set up six decades ago, with a simple objective that we must never forget. the nurturing function of our agriculture is essential. the project of european autonomy cannot be exempted from this project of food self-sufficiency and a production capacity which must incorporate new requirements, the ecological transition in the first place, but always keep this simple objective: to feed europe and to contribute to feeding the world. we know today, the un and fao have stressed, that there will undoubtedly be a huge increase in the number of people suffering from hunger as a result of this war and its agricultural consequences: 8 to 13 million people could be affected worldwide, according to fao. in this context, europe has a dual responsibility: to ensure and extend its own production, to guarantee this project of autonomy and sovereignty, which passes through food; i am thinking in particular of north africa and the middle east, and even africa more generally, to feed themselves and to avoid hunger, famine or food difficulties. this dual responsibility was recognised by the heads of state or government at the informal summit held in versailles on 10 and 11 march. we have included in the versailles declaration - i think this is an important point which has not been sufficiently emphasized - the agricultural and food question among the objectives of reducing our dependencies and strengthening our autonomy. for europeans, it is a question of price, it is a question of autonomy, it is a question of food security; for the world, it's about hunger and basic food. during the debate which took place in the council the day before yesterday in your presence, mr commissioner, the ministers for agriculture, under the french presidency, unanimously welcomed the emergency measures which the commission has put forward to support the union's agricultural production in the short term and to increase its strategic autonomy, to its own benefit and to the benefit of the world, in the medium and long term. the agriculture ministers and you, mr commissioner, have stressed that we must not only guarantee the union's self-sufficiency but also strengthen our capacity to show solidarity and to strengthen our capacity for autonomy as quickly as possible in the field of basic products - i am thinking of fertilisers and proteins. we have said and we have said for many months: today is the time to act. among the measures you have mentioned and which you will certainly present, commissioner, emergency measures, market measures and the mobilisation of the common agricultural policy reserve are among the tools which must be mobilised quickly and probably even more. based on this experience, ministers had already discussed a few weeks ago an emergency plan to ensure food supplies and food security in times of crisis. it was a debate that took place in december; the urgency and the imperative of this are even more evident today. we know that the russian aggression against ukraine is already having a lasting impact on food and agriculture. europe must rise to the challenge, adapt its tools, keep its goal of ecological transition, but above all, always keep in mind that we must feed europe and contribute even more to feeding the world. this will be our imperative and our responsibility as europeans in the weeks ahead. thank you in advance for this debate and thank you to the european commission for the measures already taken and those that are to come.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, the russian invasion of ukraine has shown us also the importance of ensuring food security at all times, both within the eu and more globally. the objective enshrined in our founding treaties, some 65 years ago, is today as important as ever. for the global food system, the loss of grain exports from ukraine means that up to 25 million tonnes of wheat must be substituted in the current and the next season. this is indispensable for overall world food needs, which are also affected by a likely reduction of russian exports. combined, ukraine and russia are responsible for over 30% of world wheat exports. the strong price increase on cereal markets puts global food security at risk, affecting vulnerable people in food deficit countries. we must shield vulnerable countries, notably in africa, the middle east and the european neighbourhood region, from pressures on food availability and prices. in recent days i have spoken with ministers from ukrainian government who have described the situation facing the farmers. they have spoken of destroyed land, of lost crops and livestock. we had a discussion with the ukrainian agriculture minister, roman leshchenko, during agrifish council meeting on monday, and he told us that ukrainian farmers are fighting at day and working to provide food at night. he also reminded us of the uncertainty of sowing and harvesting in ukraine may continue for several years and that this puts pressure on global markets. i also spoke with deputy minister of mr taras dzoba, who said that russia is taking ukrainian soil and using it as a weapon, a weapon against its own people and a weapon of starvation. in the face of this weapon, the european union will not stand down. we will step up. we will defend our neighbours, defend the international community and defend ourselves. the versailles declaration of the european council called upon the commission to take urgent action to present options to address rising food prices and the issue of global food security as soon as possible. today we have adopted the communication on safeguarding food security and reinforcing the resilience of food systems. the communication sets out actions in three areas. first, it presents our immediate action to safeguard food security in ukraine and around the world. second, we have addressed the challenge of food stability in the european union food system with a range of measures to support our farmers and maintain affordability for our citizens. finally, we confirm our agenda to make our food system sustainable and resilient in the years to come. security, stability and sustainability. these are the words that define our response. first and foremost, we will stand by the people of ukraine to address the serious impacts of russia’s invasion of ukraine and food supplies in their homeland. to support the farmers of ukraine, the commission and international partners are working in ensuring that necessary inputs like seeds and fertilisers can reach ukraine and that transportation and storage facilities are maintained to enable ukraine to feed its citizens. one particular problem is supply of diesel. i have spoken with the polish prime minister. mateusz morawiecki, and he assured me that poland can provide diesel for ukraine from the strategic reserve. the commission has rapidly mobilised eur 93 million in initial humanitarian funding for ukraine and moldova, of which 90 million has already been disbursed to humanitarian partners. together with member states, the commission will also continue working with international partners to coordinate policies and assess the risk to global food security. we will therefore reinforce our humanitarian aid assistance to the regions most affected by food insecurity and assist them diversify their sources of food supplies. we will ensure that trade can continue and avoid restrictions that prevent food and fertilisers being brought where most needed. and we will strengthen our cooperation on transitioning to a sustainable food system across the globe. the second area addressed in our communication is the short—term actions to maintain food system stability in the european union. in the eu, we are largely self-sufficient for almost all agricultural products. however, the european union is importing feed grains and oilseeds from ukraine and fertilisers and natural gas from russia. arable farmers feel the costs of high input prices and the livestock sector, pigmeat and poultry in particular, feel the strong impact of feed price increases. thirdly, i am pleased to underline that our european food security crisis preparedness and response mechanism is up and running and will increase cooperation to mitigate food security risk and monitor the situation. a second meeting of the mechanism is taking place today. to improve our monitoring capability. the commission also proposes that member states communicate data on their private stocks of essential food and feed to have a timely and accurate overview of their availability. let me be clear, currently, thanks to the work of our farmers and the support of the common agricultural policy, food security in the european union is not under threat. however, our food system is facing challenges. for our citizens it’s not a question of availability, but affordability. while there is enough food, in the eu prices are rising – food inflation reached 5.6% compared to february 2021 – and we must protect lower income citizens and vulnerable families. we must remember that in the last three weeks, our population has grown by more than 3 million people. that is more than 3 million extra mouths to feed every day. the commission calls on member states to use their social policies to protect vulnerable citizens from food insecurity. member states can also implement reduced rates of vat on food and use the fund for european aid to the most deprived. for farmers it is not a crisis situation, but a critical situation, especially for a number of specific sectors and smaller family farms. let me briefly outline what this communication holds for farmers. firstly, the commission has adopted exceptional support measures of eur 500 million to directly assist those farmers most affected by the higher input costs and the closure of export markets. the commission will submit its proposal to use the crisis reserve for this support package to both the european parliament and the council. member states can exceptionally complement this eu support by up to 200% with national funds. in addition, the commission will allow member states to pay increased levels of cap direct payments in advance, to address the cash flow difficulties that farmers are facing. we have also adopted an exceptional temporary derogation to allow the production of any crops on fallow land this year, while maintaining the full level of greening payments for farmers. in view of the particularly difficult situation in the pigmeat sector, the commission will open a new private storage aid scheme to stabilise the market. member states can also take measures at national level. the temporary crisis framework for state aid has been put in place to allow member states to grant direct aid to producers affected by the crisis and to energy—intensive undertakings such as fertiliser manufacturers. finally, some member states have started to use the specific flexibilities to existing import requirements related to pesticides for animal feed, provided that safety is ensured. we must act with these measures in the short term to address food security and affordability concerns now. let me remind you that we do not currently face a food security threat in the european union. it is simply prudent that we support our farmers to produce more food sustainably while they can. that is why the commission is acting with these short term measures. let me say one word also on fisheries, which is of course equally part of our food system. the eu fishery, aquaculture and processing sector is also directly affected by the disruptions of the market. contrary to agriculture, the european union is not self-sufficient when it comes to seafood. we are very much import dependent, including as regards imports of raw materials for fish processing. the sharp rise in marine fuel prices makes most fishing fleets unprofitable. the fisheries sector will benefit from some of the measures i just mentioned, including the temporary crisis framework for state aid. let me say this clearly: fundamentally, the transition to sustainable agriculture as envisaged in the green deal and the farm to fork strategy is our only path to food security. this is strongly recognised and reinforced in our communication. we must also ensure that our food system is resilient to external shocks like the one we are now experiencing. this is why the farm to fork strategy is an important part of our response. it sets the path to reducing our dependence on inputs like fertilisers, without undermining productivity. this will require a greater use of knowledge sharing and innovation in areas like precision farming, organic farming, nutrient management and agro—ecology, which must be facilitated through cap strategic plans. on the subject of the cap, the commission will address the russian invasion of ukraine in its letters of observation to the cap strategic plans, which will be adopted next week. i have called on the member states to use their strategic plans to strengthen the sustainability and resilience of their agricultural sectors, reducing energy, pesticides and nutrient dependence and prioritising actions that increase yields. on sustainability, the commission will support member states who, for example, use funding to boost sustainable biogas production, improve energy efficiency, foster bio—economy solutions, convert into organic farming and protein crop production, and develop their knowledge and innovation systems. in conclusion, honourable members, i am confident that while we face a significant challenge, we can overcome it. but we need to act together within the european union and with our international partners. i know i can count on the loyal cooperation of this house to face this crisis together, to address the challenges we are confronted with, and to preserve our long—term strategy, making our food system more sustainable and resilient.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the amount of the loan is eur 43 billion. this is the weight of the commission's special plan to deal with the chip supply crisis. with 500 million euro, which is already provided for in the cap as a crisis reserve, and is therefore farmers' money, the commission now wants to solve the food crisis, which is clearly and clearly our fault. so this means that a missing chip is exactly a hundred times more important than an empty plate, and i wonder if the citizens of the european union will see it that way. the commissioner said that the crisis reserve was activated, but that could only be a start. it's probably gonna take more money. it is good that our farmers can grow on the ecological priority areas, but it is a drop in the bucket. it is good that we want to be flexible on imports, but what we import will eventually be lacking in other countries. we must anticipate this supply crisis. we must ensure that the internal market works, that there are no more things like hungary, where exports are banned. we had a meeting yesterday in the agriculture committee with the ukrainian minister of agriculture. and although there is war in ukraine, we must do everything possible to ensure that the farmers in that country can produce and grow there too. you need, as you said, fuel, pesticides, fertilizer. we must now buy these means of production and try to deliver them to ukraine immediately - sowing will begin in a few weeks. we need green corridors from the eu to ukraine. so we need a real plan. what we do not need, commissioner, are legislative initiatives from the commission which further endanger food safety. they can wait until we're through with this crisis. i'm afraid that's going to take a few months. so we have to act now. immediately and decisively.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the tension and uncertainty we are experiencing in europe today is unprecedented in half a century. and yet, i want to send a message of reassurance to the europeans today. the european union is prepared to deal with the effects of this war and to ensure that there will be no shortage of food. and this is because we have been preparing for a long time. who would have thought that 60 years after the creation of the common agricultural policy we would be in this situation? the cap has undoubtedly been one of the european union's greatest achievements. during the covid-19 crisis, we have already seen the resilience and capacity of the european food sector, despite the nervousness of some at the beginning who were trying to stockpile food. however, covid-19 has already put a great deal of pressure on the food sector and the distribution chain. they have gone to great lengths to ensure supply throughout the union and now they need all our support. the agricultural, fisheries and livestock sectors are faced with high fuel prices and the difficulty of importing feed and fertilisers. this is not a new debate, ladies and gentlemen. we have been talking in this house for several years about the necessary measures. the european green deal and the farm to fork strategy are intended to help us produce sustainably, reducing our dependence on oil, gas and fertilisers. the war in ukraine only confirms the decisions we have already taken and obliges us to speed up the process and to strengthen the sectors affected. it is time to assess the impact of the war on policy and to adjust it to ensure that production is maintained, but also that farmers, fishermen and herders, maintain their incomes. some farms will soon have trouble feeding their animals. we are looking forward to this commission proposal to secure the feed. the great challenge for our agriculture will be to cut our dependence on the fertilisers we import from russia and belarus, which we can hardly do without in the short term. we must intensify the search for alternatives. at the same time, we must ensure liquidity for farmers and livestock farmers with the flexibility already provided by the common agricultural policy. let us use the crisis reserve, but at the same time let us think about the future. we must use all the mechanisms available in the common organization of agricultural markets to stabilise prices, prevent speculation and ensure a decent price for both producers and consumers. and besides the hauliers, the high fuel price also affects the fisheries sector and both need to find support. as i said at the beginning, we are making a great collective effort, but we have all the instruments to deal with this crisis. others don't, let's not forget that. putin's irresponsibility not only obliges us to show solidarity and to guarantee food for ukraine and for the refugees, but we must also be aware of the global consequences. we cannot simply resign ourselves to putin's brutality derailing the second un sustainable development goal: the eradication of hunger. ladies and gentlemen, there are no shortcuts to a challenge of this magnitude. looking the other way doesn't get us any further. just the steady pace, the unity and the confidence of doing the right thing.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the russian aggression in ukraine is dramatically exacerbating the already tense global food security situation. the head of the un world food programme expects a real catastrophe of hunger in the third world later this year. these are alarming statements. we in the eu have a productive agriculture. our farmers produce the highest quality food. in the present situation, we have a special responsibility to make the most of our opportunities. but we must not lose sight of the long-term viability of the project. we should not, therefore, be tempted to turn back the clock. instead, our farmers need perspectives and innovative solutions to produce more with less. bringing these solutions to the field should be our most urgent goal now. this is even more true today than it was before february 24.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. helping ukraine must be our first and really most important action. our full support is due to ukraine, and we must help now, with seeds, fuel and whatever technology we can provide. but the other important thing is the fight against the threat of world hunger. the countries that no longer receive grain from ukraine will starve. russia will use its exports to countries that are friendly to it as a weapon. we'll have to see. russia is also attacking the grain store of europe, and there is also a fight for food reserves. but are we really giving the right answer, commissioner? we have to rethink our whole agricultural policy and what we do with our grain. 60% of the grain goes to the trough, 20% to industry and the fuel industry and only 20% is used for human consumption. can we really give an answer for the future? can europe remain the meat-packing capital of the world? can we feed people with this? i'm not going to. i think we need to rethink that. we must really give priority to the production of grain for the poor. the first thing we have to do is not look at ecological priorities, but we have to think about the fact that we will no longer allow the use of biofuels. the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis are not going to stop. i would therefore urge all those who are now questioning all the green measures here to: we need sustainable agriculture! we need more greening to become independent of fertiliser imports and also independent of soy imports. that must be our task, not to turn the wheel back to a policy of the 70s, 80s.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must recover our food sovereignty and energy independence so that we can be free from the blackmail of putin's russia and all the other hostile countries. these are the two great challenges which the war in ukraine requires us to tackle with the utmost urgency. the european union is facing challenges for which it is not prepared, after years of wrong policies dictated by the false environmentalists of the italian and european left. our farmers must be helped to do their job, which is to produce food and feed for all. the exact opposite of what europe has done in recent years. brussels has slaughtered our farmers, filled them with constraints and bureaucracy. he accused them of being the main polluters. in recent years europe has culpably sacrificed our agricultural and food production on the altar of savage globalisation. europe must make a big mea culpa for the mistakes made and must change policies quickly. we need a fundamental change in the farm to fork strategy and the cap and we need real money to help our farmers, who are struggling with high bills and rising commodity prices. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. enough with your attacks on the made in italy. enough with your crazy, synthetic meat and dairy-free cheese. the tragic war in ukraine shows that there is no more time to lose. we all have a duty to defend our agriculture and to recover our food sovereignty as soon as possible.
on behalf of the left-fraktion. mr president, nature is essential to our existence. nature is irreplaceable. nature is indispensable to our food supply. these are the scientific conclusions of the ipbes. it is contradictory and irresponsible for the european commission to sacrifice this very indispensable nature under the guise of food security. once again the commission is pumping millions of euros into the livestock industry. areas that are meant to be restored by nature, she wants to replenish with livestock feed. the climate and biodiversity crises will not wait for russia to lay down its arms. you're not helping food production by making it less sustainable. 'it is an illusion', commissioner timmermans said last week. but a week later, that is exactly what the commission is doing. feeding mega-stacks is at the expense of people, animals, climate, nature and the environment. europe should now focus on the reduction of the livestock industry and on sustainable food production directly for people. only then will you achieve real food security. i therefore also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr. president, i have to ask you... for nearly a month, the war in ukraine has presented enormous challenges to ukraine and to europe as a whole. the humanitarian situation is dire and food security is already in turmoil. most of the ukrainian farmers will be unable to do their jobs, which will cause a severe food shortage. in the westernmost province of ukraine, transcarpathia, many small farmers have started farming in the shadow of war, but food shortages are already being felt. the food problems need to be addressed and quickly addressed, as in transcarpathia, in addition to the 1.2 million population, local authorities have to provide food for the approximately half a million people who have taken refuge from the war in transcarpathia, and whose numbers are increasing in the light of the tragic events. the majority of war refugees continue their journey to the european union, but many remain in their home countries, so there is a need for a continuous food supply. the eu should provide significant assistance in delivering food, fuel and medicines to ukraine and to areas where there are currently no hostilities. and it should also support those countries, neighboring countries, that are hosting ukrainian asylum seekers. it is very important that the most needy, those in financial difficulty, also receive help, but the most urgent is that there should be peace and stability in ukraine as soon as possible.
madam president, commissioner and minister, welcome back to the parliament. we do not know the full implications and the impact of the russian invasion into ukraine, but we know for sure that we have to avoid a food crisis in europe and in our immediate neighbourhood at any price. this is why we have to do the following: firstly, increase production in europe as much as we can so that there is enough agricultural products here in europe, so that we can come up for the eventual supply shortages in ukraine, so that we can care for ukrainian refugees who come and are hosted in eu member states. and we have to also make sure that people in our neighbourhood have enough agricultural products at their disposal. we also have to make sure that the internal market for agricultural products functions and commissioner, the european commission has to provide a comprehensive assessment of the farm-to-fork measures, its consequences, because the enemy now is vladimir putin, the russian federation. it is not european farmers. and as herbert dorfmann said, what the european commission presented today is a first step. it is a good first step, but we have to be ready to do more if needed. support the farmers.
president, commissioner, thank you for the communication on food security in the world, which describes the seriousness of the situation in a good way. first of all for ukraine itself: i'm very glad that the communication provides emergency aid and assistance to ukraine. secondly, for food importing countries: i would like to ask the commissioner to give us the information we need, to give us the knowledge we need and to give us the emergency aid we need, and to ask the european union to help us in this respect. and then, thirdly, for the european union itself: we're going to look at how we can be less dependent on russia, on natural gas, on fertilizer and you name it. i have long advocated that we should use as much organic manure as possible instead of manure, such as animal manure, but also human excrement in sewage sludge. the european commission is finally seeing that we need to use this. i would urge the commission not to stop at the research, but to take real action now - today. for example, for the use of animal manure, these criteria - the renure criteria - have already been drawn up. we can put it on tomorrow.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the war in ukraine has immediate repercussions on the world's food supply. the countries north of the black sea supplied nearly 30% of the world grain market. the people of the mediterranean are worried because they know that the price of bread is going to rise very sharply. the agricultural system set up by the world trade organization has collapsed. this war demonstrates the vulnerability of its logic. in the medium term, we therefore have a duty to completely revise these neoliberal policies. in the short term, the urgent need is to use cereals to feed people. europe must give priority to the use of land for food. the priority is therefore not to produce agrofuels, agro-gas or animal feed. we must also give financial support to importing countries to avoid a default with catastrophic consequences at all costs. european farmers face two challenges: to feed thousands of people while accelerating the fight against climate change and the collapse of biodiversity. the european commission must not panic and call into question the farm-to-table strategy. these guidelines will help us to reduce our dependence on russian fertilisers and brazilian soya. today they are even more important and relevant than yesterday. they bring us closer to food sovereignty by strengthening our autonomy and making us more resilient to external dangers.
madam president, thank you. let us be careful, commissioner, that the european sanctions in response to the war in ukraine and the sanctions against russia do not lead to a real food crisis. when we take sanctions, i always ask myself: do we assess their costs and their impact? today, in the short time i have, i would simply like to take one example: the sanctions that were imposed on belarus almost two years ago. what was the result? has the system and regime of belarus collapsed? no, i'm not going. but what was the main sanction against belarus? the embargo on potash, the main resource of belarus. as a result, the price of potash fertilizer in 2021 has increased threefold. since the beginning of the year, this fertiliser has increased by a further 40%. in the end, did belarus lose money? no, i'm not going. it would even seem that he is earning more, because he has reoriented his market, because there is a global shortage and prices, i repeat, have tripled. on the other hand, our farmers - i hear the talk about replacing natural fertilisers and i agree entirely, but it takes time - are now paying three times as much for their synthetic fertilisers. our consumers see the price of this fertiliser reflected in the prices of the materials they consume. so i simply say: when we take sanctions, let us try to assess their impact. it is always difficult to measure the political effects on the country in question. i don't know of any country that has collapsed because of sanctions. i do see the effects on the consumer and on our farmers. excuse me, but in the example i took from the potash, it's a total failure.
madam president, commissioner, minister, you will notice that the microphones work better in strasbourg than in brussels and that the house in strasbourg is better. when we talk about food sovereignty, we must not forget that 70% of the seafood we consume in the european union is imported. in other words, food sovereignty over these products is a conquest for the european union. why help the fishermen? why help farmers? well, it's very simple: every time a fisherman gives up going fishing - and this is the case now - fishing boats stay at the dock because they can no longer be paid properly - every time we increase imports. when we increase imports, we will eventually target fish, seafood that could feed populations elsewhere in the world. at a time when we fear that hunger will increase in the world, we europeans cannot afford to have our fishermen stay on the dock. fishing is at the heart of our diet, and that is why we must commit ourselves to it.
madam president, commissioner, the consequences of economic sanctions and trade restrictions in response to the war in ukraine are already being felt in the agricultural world, with soaring prices for raw materials such as wheat, soybeans, rapeseed and maize, as well as for fertilisers and oil, which affect the food security and food sovereignty of nations. to cope with this crisis, countries must ensure their ability to supply themselves, but above all to be independent. it is therefore necessary to review our approach to food security in order to reduce our dependence on imports of cereals, oilseeds, maize, protein crops and fertilisers. we understand the concern of our citizens about the immediate and future availability of sufficient, nutritious and quality food. for all these reasons, we must act quickly to avert possible shortages in europe, but also in developing countries, which could also create social and political instability and generate new waves of migration towards our continent. with my colleagues from the id group, we have proposed to the european commission that a series of measures be taken immediately to prevent market disruption and to support the sectors most affected by the crisis, such as pigmeat and seeds. we must act quickly to produce more to guarantee our food independence, by providing funds for our farmers and for our livestock farmers.
madam president, russia's attack on ukraine is not only endangering the lives of ukrainians, it is endangering the livelihoods of many others for a long time by threatening plantings and harvests in ukraine, but also by cutting off a region which today produces 30% of the world's wheat. in the meantime, farmers and fishermen in our countries are in extreme difficulty because of the rise in the price of fuel and all raw materials, which directly threatens the continuation of their activity. but we are talking about living conditions, and today we must reiterate our support for farmers in the face of the suspicions still being voiced against them, which we are hearing again here. this also requires, commissioner, a review of our policies in this area. i am thinking in particular of the 'farm to fork' strategy. how can we pursue this strategy, which the european commission's own study group says will reduce european food production, raise prices for consumers, lower farmers' incomes and increase our dependence on global imports? it would be folly to continue in this way. mrs noichl, how can you accuse those who dare to bring this debate to the table, which is necessary in the present situation? those who endanger our sovereignty, those who make us vulnerable to russian attack, are the ones who want to reduce european production when we need to increase it.
madam president, commissioner, minister, the war in ukraine is a disaster. ukrainian women and men are being bombed, killed, neglected and sacrificed because of a dangerous madman. ukrainians are soon at risk of starvation because their fields have become theatres of military operations. so, europeans, decision-makers, businesses, each at their own level, our responsibility today is to help ukraine feed itself. in europe, with dignity and restraint, let us at least draw lessons from this war: let us put food sovereignty and our environmental ambitions on the same level. let us be determined to finally rebuild a strong, sovereign and sustainable agricultural europe.
madam president, commissioner, we must collectively meet the needs of ukraine and the ukrainian people here and now. we need to feed the refugees, feed their children, educate them, educate them to rebuild their country. we have to send food to ukraine. we must also help ukraine, as was requested yesterday, to harvest its crops. it is important that we put in place the green corridors that have been requested and that we provide all the products to help ukraine eat. this war has consequences for our union and it reveals our weaknesses. this war is a revelation of our dependence on energy. it also reveals our dependence on third countries for animal feed. it is important that we gain sovereignty by investing. we owe it to ukraine and the world.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, spring has come, the trees are in bloom, and the mercury is finally reaching 20 degrees in some places. this is the moment the european commission has chosen to wake up to the rising gas and electricity prices. i must say that i was surprised by your invitation to the states, and i quote you, to 'regulate prices' and even 'tax energy companies that have made exceptional profits'. with a little advance notice, i'd almost believe it was an april fool's day. has the european commission finally realised the absurdity of its energy market, which leads only to one thing: the explosion of prices for people and profits for multinationals? so why wait until the end of winter for these recommendations, given that prices had started to soar long before the war in ukraine began? well, i've read all this, and i think i've found the answer. in the annexes, commissioner, you state that 'the competitiveness of the markets and, i quote, the general objectives of the european union's energy policy must not be called into question'. in short, no free and undistorted competition prices may well continue to skyrocket in the future. it was too good to be true. in fact, only italy has so far introduced a 10% tax on the big energy companies which have increased their profits. but there is something that can be done. in europe, the commission is talking about 200 billion in surplus profits for the energy companies. in france alone, mr beaune, total made a record profit of 16 billion, while people pay more than 2 euros for a litre of petrol. so stop playing around: make total pay and block the prices of petrol, gas, electricity, but also of all basic necessities.
madam president, minister, commissioner, we are here today to talk about repowereu and energy prices. there is a profound link between the two, which has already been mentioned by several of my colleagues, since, long before the war in ukraine, we were already seeing the surge in energy prices and, to be more precise, the price of fossil fuels. today, ambitions are beautiful, and words are sweet. there's talk of phasing out fossil fuels completely, starting with russian gas. we talk about increasing energy efficiency or saving energy. but in practice, things are a little different. first, there is no embargo on russian oil and gas yet. secondly, when the commission proposes to tax the extra profits of oil and gas companies, the member states are discussing and, certainly, prefer to support the industry in the face of this surge in prices, thus subsidising fossil fuels. depending on the options on the table, we would be prepared to pay up to €100 billion in subsidies to fossil fuels; the 100 billion is the two years of investment needed in a country like france to guarantee the transition, or the amount we have promised the countries of the south to guarantee their own transition. is there no other way? the worst thing is that the decline in oil prices, and even gas prices, in the markets in recent days is not reflected in the prices at the pump. it is therefore more expensive for people, and only italy has, at this stage, opted for taxing the profits of its energy companies. the commission now wants to make the storage of gas, whose price is rising and will continue to rise, sustainable, and which we will have to sell and sell, thus locking ourselves up in these fossil fuels. what are we waiting for to really make a contribution to those who are destroying our planet? the real solution to rising energy prices is climate justice, climate action that starts with those who can afford it and supports those who can't.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, we all want a strong, independent and sovereign europe here, but we must not lie to ourselves either: the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have only a few billion left in our european budget. so, redeployments, leverage and whatever else you can think of to keep fresh money off the table won't be enough this time. let us be consistent and create safe, a new fund for europe's strategic autonomy, just as for the recovery plan, to wean our states from hydrocarbons, to ensure agricultural independence, to strengthen our armies, to europeanise all the strategic sectors for our future: chips, batteries and semiconductors. commissioner, minister, nobody here wants europe weakened by a flood of dependencies. if we really want a europe that protects and takes responsibility in an increasingly unstable world, then we will have to act courageously.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, the present situation is obviously a terrible crisis for european households, whose fuel bills are exploding, and it reveals the dependence of our continent on russia, which we are paying with our honour in the crisis situation that ukraine is experiencing today. of course, we must act urgently, and many of the measures you have announced, commissioner, are obviously necessary. however, to move forward, we will have to start production again, and that will take time. you have spoken of this point of view, commissioner, of a massive deployment of renewable energy. i fear that we have not yet grasped the need to base our energy mix of tomorrow on all controllable energy sources. every time we install a wind turbine or a solar panel in europe, we need to import gas to compensate for its intermittency. how is it that this very simple equation has not yet been understood? it sheds a very stark light on the russian funding of many of the so-called environmental organizations that have helped, in recent years, to destroy our energy mix. we must urgently break out of the naïveté. this also means that we can rely on nuclear energy. let us say it again: it is part of what allows us today to produce a decarbonised energy, which guarantees our independence and sovereignty.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the question of the energy charter treaty is of course directly linked to the debate we have just had. in 1994 we tried to create a stable framework for energy supply within the european union with other countries, while trying to integrate russia as a major supplier of fossil energy sources. the importance of this experiment has been clearly demonstrated in recent weeks: with the russian aggression against ukraine, the question of energy security in the european union has come to the fore. and of course, we have to ask ourselves: is this 1994 treaty - which russia left in 2009 - still fit for the future, or is it a lump in our bones, a millstone on our necks? i think there are three very central questions that bring us a little bit closer to answering this question -- future-proof or leg-bump. firstly, the 1994 treaty puts a focus on fossil fuels - on energy, investment and technology in fossil fuels. you can understand a little bit more: in 1994, there was no green deal, nor any commitment that we would stop using russian gas in 2027 - all this did not exist yet. the focus is therefore perhaps understandable, although not yet fully comprehensible, because renewable energies were already available in 1994. so, the obvious focus on fossil fuels can no longer be future-proof. we must also see the commitment to the paris agreement on climate change more clearly guaranteed in such a treaty. the second point is: will this treaty undermine what we want - more investment in renewables? and then you can say clearly, yes, there is no obligation for sustainability goals in investments. and worse, there are lawsuits from investors, for example against the closure of a coal-fired power plant. and we want to get out of the coal electrification. how can we approve of a treaty which criminalizes measures to reduce coal-fired power stations? i don't think this is the time anymore. there is also a bit of a question whether this right to regulate for more sustainability, for more environmental protection is being called into question. and the third, and related, is whether this form of investment protection, this old isds system, where investors can sue states for missed profit expectations, is still acceptable at all. we have said in parliament: no, we want a new system of investment protection with obligations for investors and a much more restrictive application. you can't find that. we now have 88 cases where investors from eu countries are suing eu countries so the bilateral suits are increasing. and the european court of justice says that too: it is out of date, it is illegal. if you look at these three systems, and you see that since 2017, there's been a little bit of reform discussion, but there's no final results on the table yet, there can be, from my personal point of view, only one consequence: that we leave the energy charter treaty and say we want to make energy supply sustainable and not be subject to the sword of damocles of a unanimous decision by the contracting parties of the energy charter treaty community. it will not happen that all 54 members say: we want to promote only green energy and we want to throw away investment protection. so where are we today? what about the reform efforts? can we get access to all the documents? can you plan your exit without long-term repercussions? can the contract be modernised so that there is no 20-year grace period? i think we don't need a lump on the leg for our energy policy anymore.
president of the council. mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank you for putting this subject on the agenda, on which i will return. i had the opportunity, before the french presidency of the council of the european union, to engage and express myself, as minister for european affairs, with my colleagues responsible for the economy and energy in france. you have made it very clear that the provisions of the energy charter on the protection of investments in the energy sector no longer correspond at all to the challenges of today. the priorities of this modernisation process, which you have mentioned, are precisely those relating to adapting the charter to the issues of climate change, decarbonising the economy, promoting human rights and international labour standards; the issue of social and environmental responsibility is also essential. as you know, the main response that the european union, collectively, has made to the current energy crisis is to invest in renewable energy, hence the union's position of wanting to remove the protection provided by this charter to investments in fossil fuels. this process of modernisation has now started almost three years ago, in 2019. the aim is to adopt a new text, with the necessary adjustments, in june this year. you ask me where we are; i would like to recall some of the elements of this process. a total of 11 rounds of negotiations have been held so far. the last meeting of the group on the modernisation of the charter was held a few days ago, from 1 to 4 march. these negotiations covered a wide range of issues, such as the definition of investment or economic activity in the energy sector, or, more specifically, the social responsibility of enterprises. i want to talk very briefly this morning about the definition of economic activity in the energy sector. the position of the european union, as i have just said, is to exclude the protection of future investments in fossil fuels; that is very clear. in this connection, the delegations are continuing their discussions on the latest proposal of the secretariat to implement this principle of phasing out investment protection in this area. this is because each contracting party has different climate targets and energy loops - that's the difficulty of these talks. in the next two cycles, already planned for april and may, we will have the opportunity to look at these aspects in more detail and - i make this very clear - to assess whether or not this process can succeed, in the light of our objectives and their ambitions. we shall then see whether this compromise is realistic or not. if a compromise can be found and if it is in line with our ambitions, there will be an extraordinary meeting of the charter conference in june to confirm the agreement reached, if necessary. i am very clear: if the outcome of the negotiations on the energy charter is not satisfactory for the european union, we will have to return to the other options we put on the table, including withdrawal from the energy charter treaty, which would have to be coordinated. that would obviously be the best option. i would like to return to this point, mr president: i had the opportunity, not as president-in-office but as french minister, with my colleagues in charge of the economy and energy and with the support of a number of member states, to write an open letter to say precisely that if the objective of modernisation could not be achieved, we should consider quickly the end of this charter and the withdrawal of the countries from the european union. i want to emphasize that the issue of the war in ukraine was also discussed during the last meeting. we cannot of course ignore the dramatic situation we are in, including the energy situation - we have just discussed this in the house. several contracting parties, including the european union, but also japan, the united kingdom and switzerland, have collectively and very strongly condemned russia's unjustified military aggression against ukraine, which is a contracting party to the energy charter. finally, the council and the commission are in regular contact on all aspects of these negotiations, in which the european parliament must be involved, in accordance with article 218 of our treaty. the council informed parliament in 2019 of this decision to open the negotiation process. at the beginning of each successive council presidency, a ministerial intervention is organised in the parliamentary committees, and the council naturally remains at the disposal of parliament, open to all transparency and cooperation. in the context of this article, i am personally at your disposal for a regular item on the next negotiating rounds with the european commission.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, with the modernisation of the energy charter treaty, the commission pursues two main objectives. first, to reform the investment-protection and dispute-settlement rules in order to ensure that the goal of protecting and encouraging investments does not affect the ability of the eu and its member states to pursue public policy objectives. and second, to make sure that the energy charter treaty is in line with the eu’s sustainable development objectives, namely environmental protection, labour rights, climate change and energy transition. the contracting parties of the energy charter treaty have agreed to organise an ad hoc charter conference in mid-june with a view to agreeing on a broad package of amendments to the energy charter treaty. before that conference, the commission and the member states will take stock of the negotiations and assess if the eu’s objectives have been met. on your specific questions, the current energy crisis does not change the eu’s position in these negotiations. the need to bring the energy charter treaty into line with our climate and sustainable development objectives is stronger than ever. as always, we keep the european parliament informed beyond the regular feedback on the modernisation of the energy charter treaty in the inta and itre committees. the commission also informs in detail the members of the inta monitoring group after each round of negotiations. as regards the definition of economic activity, the contracting parties objected to the original proposal by the eu to remove the protection for fossil fuels investments from the agreement. however, a more flexible approach – of carrying out fossil fuel investments in line with the paris agreement and the enshrined principle of collective but differentiated responsibilities and capabilities – has now been accepted by all contracting parties, including the eu. the contracting parties are currently working on the modalities of this carve-out, as the eu has proposed a carve-out of the protection for fossil fuel investments for the eu territory. other contracting parties may propose a carve-out for their territories as well. as regards investor-state dispute settlement, the commission is in the process of improving the ect provisions by pushing for full transparency, disclosure of third-party funding, introducing reform provisions on evaluation of damages, and prevention of frivolous claims. the commission has not proposed negotiating a truly lateral investment court system within the energy charter treaty context, since the eu aims to create a multilateral investment court at united nations level. once a multilateral investment court is established, it will be also applied to the energy charter treaty by the eu, the member states and those third parties that agree to it. if the eu cannot achieve its objectives, we will have to consider other options, including withdrawal from the energy charter treaty. however, the eu and its member states will subsequently be bound by the sunset clause of the energy charter treaty. it means remaining bound as regards existing investments for another 20 years by an unmodernised energy charter treaty. so we need to evaluate our options carefully.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, with energy prices that were already on the rise before the war and now with the illegal, tragic and insane invasion of ukraine by russia, and taking into account the impact of sanctions, the modernisation of the energy charter treaty (ect) is happening under a different light and with regained momentum. we have to bear in mind that key provisions of the treaty have remained unchanged since the 1990s. it is also today the most litigated investment agreement in the world. provisions are not up to par with modern standards, especially those on the protection of investments. so i support the efforts undertaken by the commission to negotiate provisions that reflect the eu’s reformed approach on investment protection and its firm intention to conclude the negotiations in june. in the event that the negotiation is inconclusive, i would like to strongly encourage the commission to consider and prepare the option of a coordinated exit from the ect that would take into account our current geopolitical context, mitigate the effect of the 20 year sunset clause and alleviate, to the extent possible, the negative impact on the security of our energy supply.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr vice-president, commissioner dombrovskis, the energy charter treaty, as we know it today, is absolutely unacceptable to my group, to the european union and, of course, to the sustainability of our planet. i would like to express my concern about the position of those contracting parties to the treaty who do not share the european union's ambitions in the field of climate change mitigation, sustainable development and the ecological transition, despite also being signatories to the paris agreement. in order to support the modernisation of the treaty, the commission and the council must ensure that a number of conditions are met. the list of protected energy materials has to exclude most fossil fuel investments and include green hydrogen. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources, including the impact on the environment of the measures adopted by the paris agreement, and the impact of the measures adopted by the paris agreement on the environment. in addition, it is essential to ensure that investment protection is granted only to those investors in real assets. investments with purely financial and often - for the most part - speculative objectives must be excluded. and the european union's ability to develop public policies consistent with our commitment to become the world's first climate-neutral region by 2050 must be guaranteed. if these conditions are not met by june 2022, the commission and the member states must prepare for a coordinated exit from the euro and, mr dombrovskis, i ask you, an assessment of the impact of this withdrawal must be carried out beforehand. we must be prepared for that situation. i also ask the commission to uphold the ruling of the court of justice of the european union that the isds provisions of the energy charter treaty are not applicable in the event of intra-community disputes.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr executive vice-president, mr minister mr clément would we accept for a moment that gazprom could attack member states for the suspension of the nord stream 2 project? this is a reality that can happen with the current energy charter treaty. coherence, pragmatism and sovereignty must guide us to exclude fossil fuels from the scope of the treaty, to abandon the old investor-state dispute settlement mechanism, to replace it with a more equitable public system, to strengthen the protection of the right of states to regulate themselves and to work towards a coordinated exit of the european union and the member states in order to remove all the damaging effects of the extinction clause. that said, we cannot pursue the same trade and investment policies today as we did ten years ago. the current energy charter treaty is not only inadequate, it is incompatible with the paris agreement and the implementation of our commitments as set out in the green deal and the climate act. as we approach the fateful june 2022 date, the reality of the negotiations may mean that none of the signatory states to the treaty share our will to adapt. the court of justice of the european union has repeatedly stated that this outdated treaty should no longer apply to disputes between eu countries. so it is time to learn from the failure of these negotiations and to withdraw from this treaty.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, at a time when the war in ukraine is being fought with tragic acuteness over the question of energy sovereignty and dependence on hydrocarbons, it may seem a little ridiculous to talk about a text as archaic and outdated as the energy charter treaty. we have been suffering for 20 years from this text which confers insane profits on the multinationals. for 20 years, decisions that encourage renewable energy and energy price modulation, or those that challenge projects such as gas pipelines, have been attacked by multinationals, who have received hundreds of millions, even billions of dollars in compensation. the commission had told us that it could amend this archaic treaty, which is contrary to the paris agreement, it has been said, but which has even been judged by the court of justice, for once, to be totally outdated and archaic. we'll never be able to modernize it. the truth is that we have to get out of it, quickly, and the sooner the better, because, frankly, given the context, we have other things to do than to stick to these texts from another age, which, moreover, are really the incarnation of neoliberal europe as it was not wanted and as it is no longer wanted.
mr president, mr vice president, mr minister, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my colleagues! hungary is also at the forefront of greening, which is why we support the negotiations on the modernisation of the energy charter convention. however, i ask the commission to exercise due caution in the negotiations. the effects of the current war are already being felt. prices are falling, connections are compromised. in times of emergency, one should not make hasty decisions. i ask the commission to consider carefully the direct and indirect impact of the modernisation negotiations on the eu's energy supply, on the supply chains themselves and, not least, on the wallets of eu citizens. affordability and security of supply should be considered as important aspects in addition to greening. the union may only promote measures which do not disproportionately disadvantage any member state. i think, mr. vice president, that's the most important thing. i am glad that the commission has seen, for example, that the government price and thus the hungarian reduction in the price of gas is not the work of the devil. we cannot allow the cost of war to be borne by our citizens. in times of war, it's even more important to think long-term and with a cool head.
mr president, investment is essential to the implementation of the energy transition and meeting our climate ambitions, requiring a drastic increase in investment in renewables. our economies have been scarred by brexit, the pandemic and now the horrific war in ukraine waged by a callous tyrant. but climate change remains the overarching, existential problem facing the entire planet and every living being on it. the energy charter treaty (ect) aims to establish a level playing field for cross-border investment. however, it was signed in 1994. the world has changed since then and we are now entering a pivotal decade where we need real climate action. the ect should be revised to prioritise low carbon investment over carbon intensive investment, not used as a means to curtail ambition at the expense of society. we have committed in law to climate neutrality by 2050. we should ensure all legal instruments and obligations are in line with this and this means dramatically updating the ect.
mr president, many of you have already referred to it: the world has fundamentally changed. today, it is painfully clear once again just how bad our dependence on fossil fuels is. the focus today is, of course, on russian gas. but it would be a fundamental mistake to change one dependence to another dependence on the same fossil fuels. because fossil fuels are both polluting and expensive, and they come from geopolitically unstable regions, but also from autocratic or outright dictatorial regions. the same applies to the energy charter treaty. this convention dates from 1994 and has remained unchanged for 30 years, as if nothing had changed in the world. the energy charter treaty allows fossil fuel companies to undermine government climate policies or collect billions in fines, all at the expense of the taxpayer. how cynical can it be? the negotiations to deal with the energy charter treaty have actually been dragging on for four years. i honestly don't see any positive outcome. so we have to start drawing conclusions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind. commissioner, i think you have room-wide support to step out of it. we have to take the hit with the bull, and we have to study that well, of course. but we'll have to draw a clear conclusion. i think that's when we actually arrived.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i must tell you that for people like me who have been calling for the end of fossil fuels and our dependence on gas for years, the debate we have had since this morning should make me happy, and, i will not lie to you, there is a certain bitterness in my heart, because it took a war for us to realise the geopolitical and environmental damage of our dependence. it's really sad. could we for once today anticipate by leaving the energy charter? i think the message is quite clear. why would you do that? because we simply will not continue to compensate investors who have been sending us straight to the wall for years and who, in addition, make money on climate change. the question of modernisation, in my view and in our view, is going to take much longer than we expected, we have known this from the beginning. so please, this time, listen to us: let's anticipate and prepare this orderly exit.
good morning, everyone. welcome to this start of a very long series of important debates. i’ll start with a couple of announcements. first of all, the political groups and the non—attached members have notified me of appointments to the two new special committees, covi and inge 2, and to the pega committee of inquiry. the list of the members appointed to these new committees will be published on parliament’s website and annexed to the minutes.
the ppe group has notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees. those decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
the next item is the debate on the request for urgent procedure on refugees in europe: care (com(2022)0109 – c9-0057/2022 – 2022/0075(cod)). one month ago today, putin ordered a criminal invasion into the sovereign and independent country of ukraine. millions have been forced to flee their homes in search of safety. almost 6.5 million people are internally displaced in ukraine and a further 3.5 million – 90% being women and children – have taken the long path away from their homeland into the unknown. this is a humanitarian crisis at the heart of europe. our effective support will demonstrate the extent of our solidarity with all the brave ukrainians fighting for their homeland but also for the values that underpin ours. as we said yesterday, we have to do all we can to help them, and that is why we enact today the first set of extraordinary measures to provide emergency support to people fleeing from war in ukraine. the increasing number of people forced to abandon their homes and the neighbouring countries receiving them will urgently need more resources. i am proud that the european union has already done so much by welcoming millions of ukrainians into our countries, homes and hearts. i want to commend all citizens of the european union member states that have responded with european cohesion to all those. during the covid pandemic we showed that the european union can swiftly react and adjust to the demanding circumstances. and faced with war on our continent, we have to keep showing it also today. on this debate, i would like to inform members that it will be with one round of political group speakers. also i would like to remind you that your speeches will continue to be made from the central lectern, except for catch-the-eye, blue cards and points of order. i also ask you kindly to keep an eye on the speakers’ list and to approach the lectern when your speaking time is imminent.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam chairman, my name is novakov. i am ethnically bulgarian, from a bulgarian family, with a bulgarian mother and father. your name is ferreira, of portuguese descent, with portuguese roots. what makes us both european is not just the flag and the anthem. what makes us both europeans is european solidarity. because this alliance was built from the wreckage of world war ii. and yet, in his dna, there are no bombs, no shells, no tanks. peace, prosperity and trade are in his dna. i think that this aggression, this war that we see in ukraine, is a chance to show the human face of the european union. to raise a whole generation of europeans who will defend the european union. and this will be the strongest part of our army. because that is the european union's greatest strength: to help those in need, those who are fleeing for their lives. and i am proud that this parliament has accepted by an absolute majority, with no votes against or abstentions, that we use that dormant money of the european funds to help the peoples and countries that are taking in ukrainian refugees, 90 percent of them mothers with children. i am reminded of the thought of the brilliant bulgarian politician and european, atanas burov, who said that great nations will not fall victim to petty psychology, because they are great nations and their standard is great. i'm proud that with this vote, we made a difference and we stood on the right side of history, not falling victim to petty psychology, but taking the side of those who will win.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i cannot believe that i have to stand up to address war and its atrocities on our continent. never had i expected in my political life that we would have to deal with such a tragedy in our european house. care is a very good title. to ‘care for’ means provide for us, to look after, to ‘take care of’ means look after, keep safe. that’s what we need to do for our ukrainian friends. all these elements came together in the commission proposal for a regulation regarding ‘cohesion’s action for refugees in europe’ of 8 march this year, in particular helping the member states in the front line. that the commission moved swiftly, barely two weeks after the russian invasion and that the parliament is also moving very fast with an urgent procedure underpins this debate. moreover, the instrument chosen, a draft regulation, is legally our strongest instrument, is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all member states. the possibility of 100% co-financing to respond to this ugly war and the usage of payment appropriations from the 2014-2020 programming period and from react-eu is the right way to approach matters. however, depending on the magnitude of the humanitarian crisis and how the war evolves, we already have to see which financial means could be made available post-30 june this year. what we need to do is that the uprooted ukrainian friends find a place to stay, find work and find a school for their children. in order to become self-sufficient, language training should be encouraged, as well as child- and medical-care provided. if the eu is a place with a heart, now is the time to show it. the care proposal puts us on the right track.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, since the launch of the russian offensive on ukraine on 24 february, more than 3.5 million people have fled the country, the vast majority of whom have sought refuge in the european union. the temporary protection directive has been a gesture that honours and enlarges the european union. this is a measure that the greens/efa group has called for in the past for other crises and other conflicts, and we are pleased to see that it is now finally being implemented. that decision has likely saved lives in the past. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. with this draft care regulation, the european union will quickly release €10 billion. this money comes from the cohesion fund and the fund for aid to the most deprived which had not been used for the period 2014-2020. the money will be used to welcome these refugees, particularly in the countries bordering ukraine, which have the largest number of them. we must collectively ensure that all refugees have the basic needs of a place to sleep, enough food, access to health care. it is important that the many children who have entered the european union can go to school. all this, of course, comes at a cost, which the care regulation is intended to cover. there is urgency: that is why the greens/efa group supports the rapid adoption of this report and why we have not tabled amendments. the adoption of the care regulation should, however, lead us to think about long-term solutions to guarantee the reception of refugees, in particular if the conflict in ukraine were to continue, and, more generally, of all those who flee war, who flee oppression and seek refuge in our union, wherever they come from.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the new ipcc report is particularly alarming. it shows, not surprisingly, the effects of global warming on our environment and reveals the obvious: it is your policy and the economic model you are promoting that are causing it. the degradation of ecosystem biodiversity is already irreversible and is set to intensify as the climate warms. the whole planet is subject to the effects of climate change, which you seem to see without ever questioning your choices. of course, such conclusions concern all of us. but what solutions do you propose? more and more punitive ecology without ever exposing the real causes. more and more programmes that are binding and disconnected from the daily lives of our citizens. you have given the keys to production to countries that apply environmental standards at a discount. you have encouraged a consumerism that demands ever more raw materials. you have signed free trade agreements without regard to the concerns of europeans and the impact on our production standards. you are locking yourself up in this excessive liberalism which is blowing up the carbon balance of shipping, whereas our industries, in the past, ensured us autonomy in many areas. and above all, you have led us into a war over energy and food without realizing the grave consequences for the daily lives of our citizens. in the face of the increasingly punitive and infantilizing policy promoted by this parliament and your friends in the commission, it is urgent to give common sense answers. your business model is obsolete. liberalism must give way to localism. uncontrolled globalisation, which has made us dependent on the outside world, must give way to a system of short circuits and self-sufficiency. coal and wind turbines must be put on the back burner to rely on nuclear energy, which is clean and efficient. only such a common sense policy will finally enable us to revive our economy while protecting the planet. the rest will only serve to feed your ideological fantasies.
madam president, they are choking the planet in the name of their vested interests and their historic investments in fossil fuels. to put it simply, they are lying. mr vice-commissioner, we can take these words of the un secretary-general, antonio guterres, for granted. europe accounts for 16% of historical emissions, africa for just under 7%. even today, the richest 10% are responsible for 45% of greenhouse gas emissions. our european companies continue to invest in fossil fuels rather than renewable energy, on our territory and especially outside: total in suriname, in nigeria or, with the abominable eacop project, in uganda, shell in namibia or malaysia, or eni in angola. every year, our banks are funding a little more investment in fossil fuels. the solution is climate action in justice. it's the elevation of our goals here and now. it is asking the private sector to join our actions. and finally, it's really helping the poorest and least emitting countries.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president. let me say that my colleague and friend paolo gentiloni would have like to be here now, but he is in the full preparation of the economic and financial affairs council (ecofin) and we will make sure that your messages here today reach him tonight so that he can make good use of them tomorrow, when the ecofin in luxembourg will discuss this very issue. paolo and i strongly believe that this debate today is of great importance and will support us to come up with the right solutions. we are committed at the commission to implement quickly the historic agreement of the oecd and the g20 on fair corporate taxation. it’s a watershed moment in reforming international taxation, and it’s an example of a multilateral success spearheaded by europe that we can all be proud of. as you know, the implementation of the two pillars of the global agreement in 2023 will make sure that our tax system reflects the new reality of our economies. it will level the playing field between businesses and ensure that all companies, including digital ones, pay their fair share of taxes in the right way. as this parliament knows very well, the oecd agreement has two pillars. today we discussed the second pillar, establishing a 15% minimum effective corporate taxation rate. the first pillar on the distribution of taxation rights amongst jurisdictions to ensure fair taxation will be subject to a commission proposal later this year. our main message today is that we urge the council to adopt the minimum taxation rate now and not to delay this due to work on the other pillar. in our view, the reasons to do so are compelling. by establishing a level of 15% minimum effective taxation, we put a floor on the race to the bottom on corporate tax rates, thereby ending 40 years of unfettered tax competition that was detrimental to public finances and to all of us. this isn’t just necessary to preserve the global reputation of the eu as a leader on fair taxation. it isn’t even just an imperative because we simply want fair taxation and a fair business environment in europe. an early agreement on minimum effective tax rate for corporates will place social justice at the core of our global tax system, and that is a core value for europe itself. and as i said, in this transition we’re in, in the industrial revolution, the climate crisis, the core element that links everything together is social justice. adopting this minimum tax rate also makes economic sense, especially now that we need to finance our economic recovery. according to the estimates of the oecd, a global minimum tax rate of 15% would generate worldwide around usd 150 billion in additional tax revenues per year. even a minimum level of tax on income within europe, where other jurisdictions have not exercised their primarily taxing rights, will allow member states to protect their tax base and, as such, put a floor on tax competition. this is why our proposed transposition dates for europe mirror the implementation deadline agreed by all global partners. in fact, not acting comes with enormous risks. if the eu and its member states fail to implement the income inclusion rule that is key for the minimum tax rate on time, the eu will suffer an immediate loss of tax revenues as the taxing rights will be transferred to the jurisdiction of an intermediate parent company that did implement this rule on time. even at the more technical level, all elements are in place for a quick agreement in council on the minimum tax rate. the commission’s proposal follows closely the oecd model rules. the few adjustments primarily aim to ensure compliance with eu law. there is no gold plating compared to the oecd agreement. the council is moving towards the commission proposal to apply this minimum effective tax rate to the large businesses with a group turnover of over eur 750 million that have the greatest capacity to exploit low tax rates globally. all eu member states support the need for a directive and the political need for a continuous european leadership on this issue. the french presidency worked in record time to present a compromise text. unfortunately, not all member states could support it at the time, despite their overall support to the proposal but the common will to act is there. making one pillar dependent on the other is legally questionable under the case-law of the eu court of justice. the political imperative and the expectations of our citizens are even higher. we need to urgently adopt the eu directive on minimum taxation. honourable members, of course we do see that we need to work on both pillars of the oecd agreement. the commission would not object to have a council statement accompanying the agreement on this directive, mentioning the political link between the two pillars. in fact, the french presidency already circulated draft proposals on this, but these drafts are equally clear about the political commitment to the distribution of taxation rights under pillar one, so also pave the way to agree politically on the minimum taxation rate. i believe that all these reasons are strong encouragements to the council, to simply act on this and support this minimum taxation rate. i want to thank parliament once again, not just for your own upcoming opinion on this proposal, but also for scheduling this debate today. this shows that you are also committed to this drive to make corporate taxation fair and simple, and that makes sure they all here that in luxembourg.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i must admit that i was a little surprised for the epp group when this item was put forward by the left of the house. why would you do that? because we in parliament are not yet ready to say: it is up to the council. the council may also not act until the european parliament has delivered its opinion. if i look at the draft report, i am sorry to say this bluntly. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. i think it is extremely worrying that this parliament - at least in the light of what has been written so far - still thinks that it can go on and on and on. no, we should implement what the commission has said now and be credible, also in the international arena. but i also wonder, commissioner, why this had to be proposed in two parts. it is interesting that the council is also criticising this, because they say: yes, we do not yet know what is in the other part. it would have been right if we had not now - for elections that are coming up in a short time, a short-term success is not possible - proposed the easier part and the more difficult part, which is pushed a little ahead. it would have been good if the commission had proposed the whole oecd package at once, so that we could seriously discuss it in parliament and in the council. that is why i say quite frankly: this debate is not necessary. it would have been better if we had used the hour today to work on mrs lalucq's report or to ask the commission to finally submit the second part.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. to make matters worse, this failure occurred in a global race to the bottom. we finally decided to blow the whistle on recess. it started, as has been said, with the oecd agreement on the minimum taxation of multinationals, signed by more than 130 countries, to which the commission - which is to be welcomed - responded very quickly with a directive. we are working on this directive right now in the european parliament, but as usual there is a deadlock on taxation issues from two countries in particular, namely estonia and poland. so, dear estonian and polish governments, you have your reasons for not liking this agreement. we have our own! on the social democratic side, we would have liked a higher rate. markus ferber might have liked another agreement, but this agreement is the result of a historic compromise. so why deny us at european level what you have agreed to sign at global level? and why especially now, in this particular context when we must show responsibility and solidarity?
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, this international reform of corporate taxation is historic as has been said. this minimum tax of 15% will enable us to combat tax havens and unfair competition more effectively. and it is important to note that this reform was unanimously supported by the 27 member states, which was unthinkable just a few months ago. europe must now take or maintain the lead by swiftly implementing this agreement and the commission's proposal for a directive, which is faithful to the oecd agreement. the french presidency of the council is now working to get this agreement unanimously and to move forward as quickly as possible. that is the reason for this debate today, in the context of the ecofin council meeting scheduled for tomorrow, which you mentioned, mr vice-president. in this last line of negotiations, we, like our colleague aurore lalucq, call on all member states to show consistency and to support the council's compromise. there is a strong expectation from european citizens for high ambition in the fight against tax evasion. the european parliament - it has also been said - will do its utmost to ensure that europe is on the ball and that all multinationals pay a minimum tax in every country where they operate. it is a question of justice and fiscal fairness.
madam president, do you know how much mckinsey, which does highly paid consultancy work for the french state, has paid in taxes in france over the last ten years? the answer is as simple as it is shocking: zero. not a penny of it. this state scandal is yet another example of the tax evasion practices of lawless multinationals. in the face of this organized theft, the french presidency of the european union dares to tell us that the problem will be solved with the international minimum rate of 15%. so either our finance minister is a liar or he has no understanding of international taxation, because in the state, the agreement, which is otherwise very insufficient, will only make mckinsey pay a few crumbs of taxes, all in the united states. so yes, there is an urgent need to act against tax evasion, but the worst thing would be to give the illusion that we have solved the problem while mckinsey and co. continue to plunder us. beyond this discount deal, i want to say to tax evaders: we will get your money back, and we will follow you to hell if we have to.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, this text could not have come at a worse time. in the midst of the crisis, with energy prices soaring in europe, you want to contribute to the rise in the price of carbon in the ems market and to place a significant burden on european businesses and households. when we talk about the stability reserve, we are expected to work for stability. but here we don't have the same priorities. you talk about stability of the emission quotas in circulation, while we talk about price stability. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council. what better definition of punitive ecology? no one could have imagined that this technical matter would not become political. it is also transversal. it is linked to two other crucial texts in the climate package: the border carbon tax and, above all, the revision of the ets market. and the worst is yet to come. the latter text calls for the creation of a separate carbon market, called seqe 2, for buildings and road transport. in practical terms, this would be to tax all fossil fuels used for heating and transport. despite your assurances of compensation, the rise in energy prices will only be more brutal, especially for the most vulnerable. we dare not believe that parliament and the european governments will make this mistake. the priority today is to do the opposite of what you advocate. we must act to balance and even lower the carbon price, if necessary by injecting rather than removing emission allowances from the market. the stability reserve was created to absorb shocks and failures. this is an opportunity to put it to good use by remembering the yellow vests.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this debate and for your worries and orations, and i am pleased to hear that most of you are in favour of the agreement. honourable members, the commission very much counts on the support of the european parliament to finally adopt the long overdue revision of the hired vehicles directive. most importantly, this revision will result in meaningful change on the ground and thus contribute to a more flexible and efficient road transport. the commission welcomes the agreement as it will significantly increase the flexibility for undertakings to use the hired vehicles registered in other member states or for own-account purposes. it is thus an important step in the implementation of the first mobility package. this agreement will increase the use of hired vehicles, which will also benefit the achievement of the eu climate goals, since such vehicles are ever more environment-friendly. the revised directive will therefore also have an important environmental impact. we can be proud of the results achieved. once again, i would like to express the commission’s thanks to the parliament and of course also to the presidencies who have worked on this file and made the political agreement last year possible.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner sinkevičius, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your speeches and for your overwhelming support for this project. the end of this debate makes it clear that there is a need for a gradual opening up of the market for the rental of vehicles for the transport of goods, and that it is also appropriate, in a future review, to speak of a fully open market, which will allow the full potential of this sector to be maximised. i would like to end with a caveat which i think is important to remember. the proposal guarantees the freedom of member states to apply no restrictions on the use in their territories of a vehicle rented and registered in another member state. if there is a market distortion in a particular country, they may do so, but with the appropriate limitations referred to in this directive. we need to know whether the existing differentiated taxation will have any impact on the growth of this market. what are the effects of the application and enforcement of this directive? it will be essential to know and assess whether and how member states are applying the rules and complying with the limitations reached by this agreement and whether or not they will have adverse effects on the development of this market. only through careful analysis, accurate evaluations, and impact studies can we make better legislation in the future. we are here, if that is the case, to ensure that this legislation is also favourable to the single market, but also allows for the better development of these companies in our member states.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 5 april 2022.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr manuel pizarro, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the future of fishing in the channel, the north sea, the irish sea and the atlantic ocean in the light of the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the eu (2021/2016 (ini)) (a9-0042/2022).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like first of all to thank the rapporteur, mr pizarro, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for this important report. i cannot agree more that the impact of brexit on the eu fishing sector goes well beyond the geographical area of the united kingdom and affects our fisheries relations with other coastal states in the north-east atlantic. i also agree that the relationship between the eu and the uk remains a cornerstone for fisheries governance in the north-east atlantic. looking at our relations with the uk, we knew from the start, that this first year of implementation of the trade and cooperation agreement (tca) was going to be challenging. however, i am pleased to highlight the successes that we have achieved in 2021. in this exceptional year, we have successfully concluded two rounds of consultations on fishing opportunities, first for 2021 and, in december, for 2022. we have set up the specialised committee on fisheries and we have already started working with the uk on the many substantial issues which need to be addressed. furthermore, despite the numerous challenges we have made substantial progress in addressing concerns relating to licensing. seamless access was ensured for the majority of the eu fleet and we will continue to work extremely hard to ensure that all fishermen who are entitled to a licence shall obtain one in full respect of the tca, and notably the stability of access enshrined in our agreement with the uk. we have channelled eu funds to the fisheries sector by adopting the brexit adjustment reserve for the short-term adaptation and the european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund for long-term structural adjustment. your motion for a resolution strongly calls on the uk to act in line with the letter and the spirit of the tca. you are particularly concerned in this regard about those measures which the uk takes in its own waters, and that might diverge from the conditions in eu waters. important examples here are technical measures or marine-protected areas. let me reassure you that the commission carefully scrutinises each notification that we receive on uk measures. the tca sets out clear principles and conditions to be followed by both parties, and the commission will not accept any breaches of this international agreement. at the same time, we should also take care that we do not needlessly and prematurely escalate situations. yes, we have not always seen eye-to-eye on everything and for some issues this continues to be the case. but we have, nevertheless, been able to work together constructively and pragmatically on various issues in the interests of sustainable fisheries management on both sides of the channel. and this is very important to set the tone for our close cooperation in the years to come. and it is one important contributing factor to the overall relationship we have with the uk. therefore, i fully endorse your resolution’s call for an implementation of the tca based on good faith. this will also help pave the way for a constructive and cooperative relationship after 2026, when the transition period ends. i also note your call to get the specialised committee on fisheries up and running. i can now announce that we will hold the third meeting of the specialised committee on fisheries, the first meeting of substance, later this month. work is already underway to prepare this meeting with the working group that took place just last week. i can assure you that the european parliament will be kept informed of this very important work in line with the provisions of tca. honourable members, brexit has impacted the existing structures in the north-east atlantic and we will need to adapt accordingly. that said, the principle behind our international engagement remains the same. we remain committed to cooperation on shared stocks, whether these are shared with the uk or with the other third countries. our ultimate aim remains the same: good cooperation with the uk and norway for shared stocks, as well as good cooperation with coastal states on widely distributed stocks in the interest of sustainable fisheries management across the whole north-east atlantic. in the north-east atlantic fisheries commission, we will work closely with the like-minded contracting parties to achieve sustainability goals and to ensure the fair competition for our operators. the eu will also continue promoting ambitious control measures in order to close any loophole for illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing activities. on our cod fisheries in svalbard, we have been working intensively to find a solution with norway. such a solution should ensure that our fishers can fish their full historic quota, as in the decades before 2021, and it should not cause prejudice to our rights in international waters. norway is hopeful that a diplomatic solution could be found soon, and i am firmly convinced that this would be in the interest of both parties. we will continue to deploy all necessary efforts both on a technical and political level to make this happen.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, thank you very much to the commissioner, mr sinkevičius. fisheries have always been at the heart of the uk's relations with the rest of europe. it was one of the key issues in the 2016 brexit referendum and, moreover, access to waters and fisheries resources was revealed as the latest stumbling block in the negotiations on the agreement with the european union. the granting of licences and the fixing of fishing opportunities have unfortunately been beset by problems since then. the uk and the eu must now work together more closely to avoid this fisheries divorce. it's bad for both sides. we fulfilled the agreement in good faith, in a constructive spirit. let us not seek artificial divisions. as the resolution we are voting on tomorrow shows, the dynamic of divergences on technical measures is worrying, since it may hinder european fisheries or impose disguised restrictions. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, my friend manuel pizarro, for including in his excellent report, which we are debating today, a number of recommendations to the commission and the member states, many of them put forward by my group, the ppe group. i am particularly concerned about the uncertainty that will prevail after 2026, when the so-called 'adaptation period' will have ended. the european union must ensure that the fisheries sector has a stability horizon without further cuts. if this were not the case, fisheries would be a major source of discord which would affect the rest of the agreement. first, to trade. i don't want anyone to call themselves a fraud. this parliament will not allow fishing to be the currency of our relations, neither with the united kingdom nor with any other country.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. as part of the brexit deal, european fishermen will have to give up as much as 25 percent of their quota in british waters. in return, our fishermen should be given stability and a future. but this is far from always the case! we must prevent our fishermen from becoming the pawns of international relations. all fishermen, whether european, british or norwegian, benefit from the good management of our shared seas. the european union must therefore continue to engage in constructive dialogue with our neighbours in the north sea. at the same time, we must not let ourselves be run over. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not affected by the current crisis. i also think that we should not accept any further transfer of fishing quotas. it is time to stand up and i call on the european commission to do so.
for the greens/efa group madam president, brexit remains an event that has produced only losers. my colleagues have already mentioned the many consequences for european fisheries. one of the keys to coping with this is sustainability. the eu must not use brexit as an excuse to delay the necessary actions to move towards a more sustainable fisheries. only sustainable management of stocks will ensure the sustainability of fisheries activities in the long and medium term. for example, good management of haddock stocks has led to an increase in tacs, which fully compensates for the decline linked to brexit. on the contrary, unsustainable management would lead to decreases in catches and would only worsen the situation of fishermen. in france, small-scale fishing and vessels of less than 12 metres were particularly affected by the confusion and uncertainty surrounding the allocation of fishing licences. there is now a great deal of uncertainty about the period after 2026 as access to british waters for european vessels will no longer be guaranteed after that date. the fishermen have already suffered a lot from the consequences of brexit. we are counting on the commission to launch negotiations now for a multiannual agreement which will prevent them from suffering any more. let's keep moving towards a more sustainable fishery.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, many of the concerns, uncertainties and difficulties reflected in this report are timely. the fisheries relations developed between the european union and the united kingdom should be balanced and stable, allowing for continued reciprocal access to the waters, resources and markets of the parties concerned, in particular to serve the interests of the member states and their fisheries, aquaculture and processing sectors. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the fishing industry, which is a very important sector in the fisheries sector. mutually beneficial relations and, on the basis of respect for the sovereign rights of each state, the management of its territorial waters and the resources available therein should be promoted. the commission has also proposed that the united kingdom should be allowed to participate in the negotiations on the fisheries agreement with the european union.
madam president, commissioner, the impact of brexit on fisheries extends beyond the geographical area of the united kingdom and has important implications for the whole of the north-east atlantic ocean area, as well as for the european union fleet operating in other parts of the world, such as the waters around the falkland islands, greenland and svalbard. the geopolitical landscape has changed with brexit. also the governance framework, with changes in the balance of power and relative positioning of all neighbouring countries that share fish stocks in the area. with the uk's departure, the european union has lost its bargaining power over major fishing nations. the result is that some take advantage of the weakness of the european union, which must be reaffirmed as the guarantor of its fishing interests, in order to avoid any unjustified or unilateral limitation of access to water or resources for european union vessels in the region. the united kingdom, contrary to the spirit of good cooperation, is also discreetly but systematically discriminating against fishermen in the european union by unilaterally introducing new fishing rules. it also refuses to grant access to european union vessels which have traditionally docked there. all this leads to restrictions on the access of european union vessels to uk waters, contrary to the trade and cooperation agreement. access to uk waters and access to the eu market are intrinsically linked, and this has been the focus of the eu during the brexit negotiations. the european union must be very firm in defending this principle and, where appropriate, act.
madam president, commissioner, brexit cannot call into question an overwhelming biological truth: the waters of the atlantic form a coherent ecosystem. their fisheries resources must be managed in a sustainable manner through the agreement and trust relations that are appropriate for all coastal countries and with the rigor that the existing scientific data on the state of stocks permit and require. there are scientific bodies, such as ices, and governance bodies, such as the north-east atlantic fisheries commission, and we are also united by a common history, procedures, international treaties in force, a culture of respect for the rule of law, respect for the independence of the parties and, i hope, the desire to maintain relations with the united kingdom in terms of agreement and concord. it is therefore essential that the european fleet does not suffer any reductions in quotas after the transition period ending in 2026, that scientific collaboration is strengthened, that objective data on the state of stocks form the basis of a long-term fisheries management system in the area and that we put in place, with the experience gained in recent years, new mechanisms to deal with the destabilisation that brexit has produced in the european fisheries sector that faces the atlantic.
madam president, commissioner, the report we are about to vote on again emphasises the catastrophic consequences that brexit will have for european fishermen: the consequences of the application of the agreement, since our fishermen will lose 25% of their valuable activity in british waters - no other economic sector will be affected to this extent - but also the consequences of the non-application of the agreement by our british partners, who have used every possible bad faith in the past months, for example to not issue fishing licences to vessels that were entitled to them under the agreement that had been signed. this should be a wake-up call to the challenge we face today, to ensure that we can enforce this agreement after the transition period ends in 2026. we want to have a loyal cooperation with the british, but that cooperation must be in good faith and must be in accordance with the commitments that each side has signed. i would like to say that the work we have done here to defend european fishermen, the fishermen of our countries, who are now being hit hard not only by the consequences of brexit but also by the crisis triggered by the exponential increase in energy prices, makes perfect sense in the moment we are living in, because fishermen are one of the essential supports of our food. at a time when we are experiencing the reality of food insecurity in europe and the world, we must reassure them of our confidence and our appreciation for the work they are doing. far from those who would attack them, and sometimes even criminalize them, we know that we owe part of our resilience to the turbulence of the world to european fisheries. we will need them to avoid the global food shortage which threatens to affect europe and the countries around it.
madam president, commissioner sinkevičius, today i want to talk to you about jérôme, sophie and estelle, three nordic citizens who are very much involved in the fishing industry, three european citizens directly concerned by the report we are voting on. jerome is a fisherman by trade. against all the storms - the pandemic, the rising energy prices, a missing license - he continues to fish. sophie is a shipowner. despite an uncertain future, a missing license, she continues to modernize her fleet. estelle is a little woozy. she was shaken by the supply cuts, but she kept investing in her establishment. jerome, sophie and estelle know very well that our british neighbours do not respect the agreements and do not respect the agreements. but they also remember that the european commission promised on 24 december 2020 to help them. commissioner, today, as in the last 465 days, i solemnly say to you: do not forget jérôme, do not forget sophie, do not forget estelle. they are the future of our fishing in the channel. they are the future of our food sovereignty. thank you for them.
mr president, the conflict in ukraine has brought its share of horrors which are shocking the whole world. the scenes of devastation and desolation are increasing, the number of victims is constantly increasing. the people are hard hit, mainly women and children fleeing the war, leaving their devastated homes and separated from a husband, a father who remains to defend their country with weapons in hand. it's unbearable to see such scenes. such tragedies on the european continent are intolerable! in the face of these atrocities, european solidarity has been shown, often spontaneously, with great humanity. our people have truly mobilized. we must welcome and encourage all initiatives at all levels to help all these unfortunates. notable countries include poland, which hosts 2.5 million refugees, hungary, the czech republic, and romania. these are examples of the best that a true europe of nations can bring. these countries should be helped, but they are not. it's the opposite. it is astonishing that, in the face of this wave of solidarity, no european aid has reached them. but even worse, in another area, the court of justice of the european union and the european commission have imposed sanctions on hungary and poland, which are accused of violating the rule of law, a very questionable notion in my opinion. it is not the same subject, but it is shocking to note that in the face of this wave of solidarity, poland and hungary are not supported by the european commission. the commission is now withholding eu funds for these countries: €7 billion for hungary and €39.4 billion for poland. how can it be that at the same time countries which are otherwise exemplary in their solidarity with millions of refugees are being sanctioned by our european institutions? not only should these countries not be punished, but they should be helped and praised. the commission has found the means, with varying degrees of speed, to get through the health crisis, to finance arms for ukraine and to sanction russia. it could and should also take steps to help poland and hungary, starting with lifting sanctions and allowing them access to eu funds. unless the commission does not agree with these political regimes? and we are - i must say - particularly outraged that the left and the liberals in this european parliament are putting pressure on the commission not to release the €39.4 billion for poland. the socialists and democrats, renew, the greens and the left in this house dared to write to the commission on 24 march. i find that truly unworthy. the european commission should release these funds from the recovery plan and provide additional aid. protect these millions of refugees. protect this very vulnerable population that is plagued by all kinds of dangers.
mr president, there are those who died under the bombs and who will never grow up. there are those who were born in darkness and have not yet seen the light of day. there are those whose schools were bombed, those who were separated from their parents, those who were forcibly taken to russia, and there are those who fled. they are the children of ukraine. europe has opened its arms to them, but we must ask ourselves every day whether we are doing enough for the children of ukraine. let me tell you: we need to do a lot more. much more for those who remained in ukraine and who everywhere lack everything. to bring much more humanitarian aid, because they eat dogs in mariupol. putting much stronger pressure on moscow to allow the evacuation of civilians, and first of all mothers and children. much more support for moldova, which has the highest number of refugees per capita: 100,000 for a small country of 2.5 million people, half of whom are children. i have just returned from moldova and i ask the unhcr what it expects so that all refugees receive support, when it is the moldovan families who have opened their doors to them and are sharing with them what they have. i ask donors what they expect to support chisinau, which is doing its best. i ask the member states of the european union not to leave the poorest country in europe to do the work alone. a final word about the children of ukraine and their mothers. some of these kids were born with gpa. some of these mothers are surrogate mothers. i hear people say that this is possible in ukraine. to these turtles, i simply say: to be for life is to be for all life, whatever it may be. i hope that these mothers and children will be welcomed in europe as they should be, with warmth and humanity.
rapporteur. – mr president, as you said, i was appointed rapporteur for the commission proposal on the revised guidelines for trans-european energy infrastructure. but it was almost one year ago, and it took us one year of negotiation to achieve an agreement. first in the parliament, what was not easy, then with the council and the slovenian presidency. but i would like to thank my colleagues, shadow rapporteurs for their hard work, involvement in the process until the last all—night trilogue in december. it was very, i think, very productive and very interesting. we had a different position, but we find agreement. and secondly, i have appreciated the pragmatic and efficient approach of the slovenian presidency. thank you, madam ambassador tamara weingerl—požar, you contributed very much to this agreement. and last but not least, i have to thank commissioner simson and your teams of commissioner simson for availability of advice and all expertise. i wanted to say that it is the first revision of ten—e policy and pci guidelines since its creation in 2013. and we have made a number of substantive changes in the regulation – i just mentioned the main. first of all, the governance process has been strengthened with a better stakeholder involvement. we discussed this very intensely about governance but it was changed. the second, the most important change is the mandatory sustainability criteria that have been introduced for all types of project. we have also extended the scope of the regulation in order to include some projects with third countries. these projects of mutual interest would have to demonstrate that they bring benefits for the union and not for a single member state. new categories of projects include hydrogen infrastructures, certain types of electrolysers, as well as smart gas grids to integrate low-carbon gases into existing gas network. concerning the electricity, there are two major changes. the eligibility criteria for smart electricity grids have been simplified to enable more projects of common interest in that field. and we have introduced an amendment allowing new sub-category of projects to apply for pci status and financing in the regions with low levels of offshore renewable electricity. the projects will consist of direct connections of the offshore wind farms to the national power systems in so-called radial form. this is an important addition for member states and sea basins where offshore wind farms are at the planning stage. the final text of the revised regulation is a result of bargaining based on the commission’s proposal, which, as you know, excluded from the start – and this is, i think, very important – further support for gas infrastructure in the framework of projects of common interest. and here i must say, in my draft report, published in march last year, i warned that the commission may be over-optimistic in estimations of the level of connectivity and supply resilience for these natural gas networks, and that probably there are not yet enough interconnections in a lot of the smaller gas markets, for example in south—east europe, and connectivity still poses a problem between some member states and the rest of europe. in the draft report adopted by the itre committee we have included a definition of ‘security of supply’, meaning also ‘energy security’, and we have stated that it cannot be achieved without reducing strategic energy dependencies, it was very important. and we know that in the tragic reality of war in europe and the dramatically low level of the union’s energy security proves that, since years, the eu has made serious mistakes in assessing the needs, including in terms of trans-european energy infrastructure. and i think that the commission now seems to recognise it and it’s probably too late to reopen the ten—e regulation but we understand that the commission is already preparing an instrument to foster gas-network interconnection and lng terminals in a desperate attempt to reduce the union’s dependence on russian imports.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me begin by saying thank you and congratulations, both to the rapporteur, mr krasnodębski, and the shadow rapporteurs for their relentless efforts in reaching an ambitious political agreement. it was done with incredible speed, just within one year from the adoption by the commission. and this speed was important. once the proposal is officially adopted and in force, we are one step closer to a climate-neutral europe because we will have a forward—looking framework for planning the infrastructure we need to deliver on our energy and climate goals. as the one and only instrument for cross-border infrastructure planning in the eu since 2013, the existing ten-e framework has been very successful, both for completing our single energy market and the broader energy union. it has advanced energy interconnections across the eu. it has made our energy markets more secure, better integrated and more competitive, and it has made our energy systems more sustainable by boosting renewables. despite its success, its ambition does not go far enough. our decarbonisation goals have changed and for this we need a more integrated energy system, rapid electrification while doubling the share of renewable electricity production, decarbonisation of the gas sector, and a hike of uptake of innovative solutions. when this agreement was reached in december, the world was a different place. in the geopolitics of today, it is even more relevant. over the past years, the eu has diversified energy sources and strengthened its security of supply. we have more interconnectors and more lng terminals across the eu, which has helped us to diversify gas imports. even so, we are still dependent on russian gas. so, with our repowereu strategy, we are determined to phase out russian gas well before 2030. this means ramping up the production of green energy, something that the revised ten-e regulation will help us to do by speeding up offshore projects development, by bringing forward new projects in hydrogen networks, electrolysers and smart gas grids, and by accelerating the permitting of grid projects to allow more renewables. of course, we know that a limited number of outstanding gas projects still need to be finished to achieve a fully resilient european gas infrastructure. this is the case especially in the south-east of europe, which has been historically dependent on one supplier. these projects will continue to be implemented under the fifth union list of projects of common interest (pci), which will enter into force by mid-april. they will not be negatively impacted by the new ten-e regulation. the european council has tasked the commission to come up with a more detailed repowereu plan by the end of may. as part of this, we will identify, together with the member states, if there are any other cross-border infrastructure gaps in europe besides what is already in the fifth pci list. any additional needs will be identified, including cross-border gas infrastructure projects. these could then be addressed outside the ten-e pci framework. so i can tell you ten-e is not simply about the physical infrastructure of our energy system, it’s a route to our future cause and it’s a protective shield for the energy that powers our union.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we see this even more clearly in the light of vladimir putin's war in ukraine and the dependencies he has managed to lock us into: the way we organise, plan and finance our energy infrastructure is key. it is the key to our ability to face the great challenges of our time: peace and, of course, the fight against climate change. the revision of this regulation was therefore necessary and urgent in order to give substance to our climate commitments, to those of the green deal. unfortunately - and i am sorry to be the wrong note in this debate - the text put to our vote today, the fruit of the trilogue negotiations, does not live up to the challenges. why?firstly, whereas antónio guterres only yesterday denounced as dangerous radicals those countries which continue to invest in fossil fuels, this text grants acquired rights to gas projects. this text authorizes gas and hydrogen blends, a ploy to continue and maintain public investments in fossil fuels, such as lng terminals, which we were talking about earlier, not to mention the gas exemption granted to cyprus, let alone the one granted to malta for a project that was partly linked to the murder of the journalist daphne caruana galizia. finally, by integrating co2 transport and storage into the projects financed, given their exorbitant cost, given the small amount of funds actually available, we reduce even more the sums we can spend on energy efficiency and achieving 100% renewable. we must stop wasting europeans' money on infrastructure that is already outdated. another project awaits us, the gas package. the key to all the challenges will be to plan, plan and organise the exit from gas production and consumption by 2035, as the scientists recommend, and to do so with their contribution and that of civil society, in full transparency, in order to counteract the weight of the fossil fuel industry lobbies. all is not lost, so let us react!
mr president, this is a lost opportunity, because instead of using this regulation to really change our energy towards more renewables, we keep investing in gas infrastructure, staying vulnerable both to the climate and the geopolitical front. russian imports of oil, coal and gas are a huge share and they have not stopped – not even decreased – after the ukraine invasion. the eu must be energetically independent, but the only path towards energy independence is to reach higher energy efficiency, wider deployment of smart grids and more renewables. with the entrenchment of incentives in some member states, only the eu can really lead the way, and so far we are failing.
mr president, to make the energy transition work for people and business in europe, we need more european cooperation. sustainability, security of supply and affordability are the main criteria, and we, the epp group, believe in these three aspects, and they are necessary. i think we should highlight that there is a sharpened focus in this regulation on the needed infrastructure to deploy a robust european backbone for the production and transport of renewable and low—carbon hydrogen, that is actually needed to make the shift, the transition, possible. ten—e is of utmost importance for creating a hydrogen backbone in europe. we managed to include electrolysers that have at least 50 mw capacity provided by a single electrolyser or by a set of electrolysers that form a single coordinated project. we don’t sing ideology here, we develop the needed infrastructure for what we want to achieve for the 2030 goals. this project will enable a cumulative pathway to the larger—scale projects that we all aspire to develop and need in order to decarbonise our economies. in this regard, it’s also important to mention that we allow transitional for dedicated hydrogen assets converted from natural gas to be used to transport or to store a pre—defined blend of hydrogen with natural gas or biomethane. that is what industry asked us to do in order to make it possible to achieve the 2030 goals. and at last, it’s rather cynical that you are also always referring to the situation in malta. i think it’s important that malta is adopted to the grid and it was very impressive that the caruana galizia family called on the eu not to fund this gas pipeline project that will link to a power station part—owned by the man on trial for her killing. but it was epp and us together then lately, asking the commission to vote for us, before we vote for a statement that no eu funding from cef will go to this project as long as it is directly or indirectly linked with criminals. they confirmed, and it’s in the text, so that you should acknowledge.
mr president, commissioner, this revision of the regulation, our s&d group, has been calling for it since the last mandate and i have called for this revision because it is important to achieve our 2030 objectives, the climate objectives, the objectives we have all set ourselves in order to live in a better world. and i want to tell you that i asked for these things for a few obvious reasons. first, we wanted to have, and we want to have, an energy market that is functional. unfortunately, this price crisis has shown that we are far from having a functioning european energy market and i believe that the next measures that the european commission and you, commissioner, will announce will be in that direction. and there's something else: security of supply. i was saying that security means having the energy we need to heat ourselves when we need it, and above all not having to make any european citizen choose between heating himself or buying food or medicine. and we're not there. we're not on the right track. it's good that in this regulation we have something that is directly related to the use of hydrogen and increasing access to renewable energy sources, especially offshore. but at the same time, the conflict in the war in ukraine has shown us that we need to have security of supply, diversification of sources of supply and, in the absence of trans-european networks, this objective is difficult or impossible to achieve. these are the things i wanted to stress and i ask you, commissioner, to come up with those measures so that these things can be solved now, so that we can be better prepared for the coming winter. (applause) thank you very much.
mr president, everyone seems to finally understand how important it is to fund our european energy independence. that doesn’t mean stop using gas today, of course, but we can’t repeat the same mistakes made in the recent past. relying on more gas through different suppliers only creates new dependencies, draws away funds from investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency, and locks us into fossil infrastructure for decades. the final text, for example, allows for the melita and eastmed gas pipelines to become pcis and so to pump eu public funds into future stranded assets. last week, the european commission presented an entire greenwashing proposal. well, considering the position taken on gas infrastructure subsidies, it sounds quite hypocritical. the narrative that more gas imported from the us, qatar or other third countries will reduce the bill of the european citizens is a fairy tale. we have the solutions and we just need to use them. just for example, in sicily, on 1 april, the electricity generated by wind and sun has covered all the energy needed in the island.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support this report, but the european union can do much more. 40% of the energy in europe is spent on housing, and right now when people are building new houses, they're installing gas boilers simply because they're cheaper than, say, heaters. once they install gas boilers, they're not going to throw away that investment for five years, they're going to be using gas for many years, and since they're using gas, they're going to be less profitable to install solar panels. and so today we're creating new gas producers that we don't have. that is why it is not good for the european union to invest only in renovation, as it has done so far, but we must give subsidies for smarter solutions at the time of new construction. in this way, we will help people cut down on electricity, help every family have a warm and comfortable home, reduce greenhouse gases and reduce our energy dependence on russia. so let's be smart and change europe's energy policy for the better!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about renewables we must not only think of solar panels and wind turbines, but also of the networks that will transport green energy across the continent. because if the european union is serious about achieving climate neutrality, it will require at least 50 billion euros of investment in upgrading the electricity grid and at least 65 billion euros in developing a hydrogen transport and storage network, and this by 2030, practically tomorrow. this regulation is a step in the right direction: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the energy efficiency of the community's transport infrastructure. we would certainly have liked a more courageous measure, and it is true that there are still too many exceptions. but overall we do not think that we should impede this process and, while we ask the commission for greater ambition, we will not oppose this regulation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation we are about to adopt is very important, both to ensure the security of energy supply and to prepare an infrastructure adapted to combating climate change, an infrastructure geared to the future which provides us, for example, with the transport of hydrogen. however, as the present reality shows, we still need natural gas and we cannot depend on russia for its supply. we need more gas transport links, links like the pyrenees pipeline, which will allow transport to the centre of europe from the existing terminals in portugal and spain. this is currently our best bet to secure strategic independence from russia. i would therefore like to leave my appeal to the european commission to find solutions for financing and rapid implementation of these links.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached at the trilogue is a positive agreement, and i am also thinking of the projects of mutual interest between the member states and third countries which were introduced during the trilogue, a very important aspect also with africa, and so we will support it. however, in a few weeks we have entered a new era, because of the war of invasion of russia in ukraine, and i think that today we must explore - with the greater ambition that has been called for - all the possibilities and the space that the regulation provides to solve the infrastructure problems that have emerged and to overcome those deficiencies and those gaps identified in our security and in our european energy supply. the next list of projects of mutual interest will therefore have to have a vision, reflect these new elements and situation and guide the projects along certain priorities. i shall indicate three of them by title: total detachment from russian dependencies and attention to not creating new dependencies on raw materials, energy sources and countries of origin; priority to infrastructure for new sources: i think of hydrogen, renewable energy and renewable gas, which are still too small a share. and finally, leveraging the capacity of mutual cooperation with countries and continents like africa, because that can increase renewable energy capacity for them and for us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ten-e regulation is of paramount importance in achieving europe's ambition to build a more integrated and resilient energy market. the talks resulted in an ambitious agreement, for example on smart grids and infrastructure for hydrogen production. however, there are still gaps in the dominance of fossil gas in our energy system. so let's try to minimize the use of public funds for fossils, because it's the opposite of our climate and geopolitical ambitions. this revision of the ten-e is necessary, but it is overdue. it should have been done two years ago. it delays our response time. in the future, we need to make our legal tools more responsive so that they can be operational more quickly. let's try to get a head start and not a tail end.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, the energy crisis that all member states are experiencing must change the priorities of the 2023 budget, with massive investments enabling us to achieve energy independence. the unprecedented rise in energy prices is affecting all european citizens and our businesses, and in particular smes. increased energy independence is a major challenge. moreover, projects of common interest relating to energy must be implemented in the short term, as the crisis seems to be a matter of time. as part of a general reflection, food sovereignty also calls for several avenues of reform, such as the rehabilitation of strategic food stocks or the possibility for member states to redirect part of the aid per hectare to the farms that need it most, in view of market prices. secondly, with the nextgenerationeu borrowing strategy now an integral part of the mff, a number of questions arise. repayments should start before the end of the current mff, but this is an assumption, as the timing of the new own resources is still uncertain. the commission estimates that after 2028 the maximum annual repayments will be eur 18 billion, which means that the new own resources will have to contribute to the budget up to this amount. in the event of insufficient own resources, a possible contribution by the member states to cover this liability cannot be excluded. secondly, the enlargement policy with the western balkan countries does not seem to me to be appropriate. the european union has expanded too quickly with countries that do not meet european standards, involving budgetary transfers between member states. the pre-accession aid instrument should also be reviewed. finally, the nomenclature of the budgetary structure of the neighbourhood needs to be revised, as it is difficult to understand why it is reduced to two lines, one for the southern neighbourhood and the other for the eastern partnership. a country-by-country breakdown, on the security and development themes, seems to me necessary in order to ensure better control of european funds, which are investments outside the european union for about €17 billion a year. a global approach is therefore needed to this area, since the european union's role is first to help its citizens, especially in times of crisis, before it wants to spread its influence throughout the world, notably through the ivcdci - europe in the world programme.
madam president, i thank the two speakers: first you, madam president, for having made this exercise possible, and then you, madam president, for having agreed to this democratic exercise which my group had strongly supported. i think it's necessary. first, we were making the long-term observation that our continent does not yet have the tools to guarantee its autonomy. we had already made this observation here in this european parliament in 2019, in particular with the commission. my group supported the commission's guidelines at the time, which we thought were good. the war in ukraine has also confirmed the need to work on our internal reforms, on our transitional objectives, on strategic autonomy and on our reforms, including institutional reforms. so my question is quite simple, madam president: does the commission intend to review its priorities agreed at the beginning of the mandate in 2019? and my second question is also quite simple: will the commission present a comprehensive plan to strengthen our strategic autonomy? do you plan to introduce some additional reforms or revise a number of priorities in light of the covid crisis and the war in ukraine?
one of the important pillars, as we have seen, is the rule of law. you know, we didn't discuss it, but it was one of the fundamental priorities of this mandate. we can see that it is being called into question, and we remain convinced that we will be strong outside the european union if we are strong, including on our values, internally, in the european union. my question was also simple, as a complement: what do you intend to do with hungary and poland?
mr high representative, when you came to our parliament for a hearing in 2019, before i was confirmed, i asked you to prepare a first white paper on european defence. the strategic compass has just been adopted and i would like to extend my warm congratulations to you. but, as you yourself said, we are only at the beginning of the story. but history is accelerating, and so must our defense. so i would like to ask you: when do we really go from words to deeds? when do we really build our resilience? when will we really have a functioning european staff? when will the rapid reaction capability really be up and running? and also, can you give us your opinion on the amounts allocated to the european defence fund, to military mobility and to the european peace facility, which we have used up in one month more than we had planned for a year? did we not think too small and too slow?
thank you, mr high representative. i have another question. at the versailles summit, i was surprised that the commission was asked to assess the european union's capacity gaps when - as you said earlier - such an analysis exists. it has been conducted for years by the european defence agency. all member states have such a system. so what we are waiting for is not a further state of affairs: it is to know what will be done concretely to fill these gaps, and especially when we need equipment for csdp operations.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the situation of women in afghanistan, of those women and children who are living in hell at home. afghanistan, with its vast, arid mountains, with its men with piercing eyes in turbans and with its endless fields of poppies. we grew up or we grew old with afghanistan at war, with the ussr, with bernard kushner, with commander massoud and the taliban on television and then, this summer, with the americans who fled overnight from this land of war. this sudden return to the customs of another time reminds us of our inability to implant women's rights in distant societies where many fundamentally reject our way of life. what have the americans been doing there all these years? did they really believe that by changing the regime, they could change the whole of afghan society? they left afghanistan in ruins. they left this country in the hands of the taliban. "when the houses were locked from the inside, the american soldiers beat them with batons, forcibly removed the veil from the women", wrote emmanuel razavi, a senior reporter this summer. so i think of all those afghan women who are ultimately paying for our arrogance to believe that we can impose our way of life on the entire planet. it's a failure for all of us. two trillion dollars have been invested in afghanistan by the united states over the last 20 years, of which 500 billion to pay the interest on the debt. france lost 90 men and 700 were wounded. who knows if another billion euros could change this country? who knows if 1,000 more amputees could change this country? i see some of my colleagues are organizing a flash mob tomorrow in solidarity with these afghans. do you really think a flash mob is going to change this country? the urgent need is to deal with the millions of refugees who are arriving here in europe, especially with the men who come with their customs from another century and who try to impose them on our daughters, our sisters, our mothers, and even on these afghan refugees. i will end with this various atrocious fact of november 2021, an afghan migrant... (the president withdraws the speaker.)
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has repeatedly demonstrated that it stands by the afghan people, through its financial support and its assistance programmes. in return, the taliban have continued to flout the conditions we set, including on fundamental rights, in particular the rights of women and girls, who are now deprived of education and unemployment. the taliban regime was the one that failed to meet the conditions set by the eu for continued aid: the permission for girls to return to school. a new school year has just begun and girls are forced to remain in their homes, or worse, are condemned to forced marriages. it is clear that our union has been able to keep its promises, unlike the taliban, who have forgotten and flouted them. access to education is a fundamental right. it is essential that the european union responds strongly and makes the return of girls to school in afghanistan a red line. we must do everything possible to ensure that afghan girls and women have the right to live in dignity and the right to live freely.
in writing. the debate on the catastrophic situation of women in afghanistan, following the clear deterioration of the most basic rights, is representative of the mismanagement of resources for humanitarian aid by the european commission. on 27 august 2021, i questioned the same commission on the management of european funds after the taliban takeover, given that the european institutions had just urgently repatriated their staff and evacuated local representatives. on 12 october 2021, the commission president announced a package of additional assistance measures to the afghans of one billion euros. on 5 january 2022, mr lenarčič, the european commissioner for crisis management, answered my question by saying that there was no need to worry about the use of humanitarian aid and that it would be allocated in full compliance with international humanitarian principles. and now we're debating whether the taliban will deprive girls of schooling or of flying without a male guardian... so i ask myself, is the european union indirectly funding this blatant backsliding in women's rights and gender equality in afghanistan?
madam president, the eu-china summit could have been an opportunity for a strategic breakthrough for the european nations. however, this is a disappointing result. first, because the chinese don't want to follow our crazy escalation of sanctions against russia. they do not want to, because they know that in reality, they will eventually benefit. while you are trying to make us believe that economic suicide is the best way to build a strong europe, the world is looking at us with dismay: neither africa, nor south america, nor asia are on our side. despite a costly policy of collaboration, despite our claim to dictate global morality, we often find that the door is closed. the strategic challenge for the coming years is: will europe still matter tomorrow or will we now be a vacant lot between beijing and washington? to answer this question we must maintain the diplomatic power of the european states and adapt our economic policy. maintaining our diplomatic power means remembering that our strength lies in the diplomatic traditions of the member states and their military independence. in our diplomatic traditions, there is the weight of experience. when we sanction a country, it inevitably imposes counter-sanctions. only minds disconnected from reality can hope for something different. we're in an endless climb. the brussels project is to organise pressure on china to align itself with our policy towards russia. of course, this project is unlikely to be realized. we should have instead negotiated with china for new markets and supply chains for our economies. we have not done so because we are obsessed with one thing: getting closer and closer to the positions of the united states. if we really want to trade with china, we must return to a conciliatory attitude towards it, otherwise we are dependent on every american communication campaign to block our markets, constrain our diplomacy, vassalise our armies. yes, we must negotiate with china in the interests of the nations. the european union refuses to do so, preferring once again an ideological worldview.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, we must be realistic: china is a global power that we have to deal with, but that does not mean we have to give up our values. we 're very different from them . just think of the positions on the war in ukraine that emerged from last friday's summit; beijing is doing nothing to stop russian aggression. but also on the issue of hong kong, taiwan, up to the respect of the rights of minorities, as in the case of the uyghurs: china is not a democratic country. we must demand respect for the principle of reciprocity and fair competition: it is not possible for our companies to be excluded from public procurement in china, and it is not possible for chinese companies to follow rules which differ from those in europe in terms of the protection of workers, health and the environment. the chinese project, xi jinping said, is a hegemonic project that we cannot accept passively; the silk road is a very dangerous project which must be stopped in its most disturbing aspects. in recent years, china's presence in africa and south america has disrupted commodity markets, harming european companies and citizens. to stem this trend, the rules of the world trade organization must be rewritten, but that is not enough. in light of covid, war, energy and raw materials crises, we may also need to rethink the eu-china investment agreement. we need a legal framework that is secure for our businesses and for those who operate in europe. in short, we must defend europe's interests more strongly in this conflict. i'll close with a chinese proverb that says: "to have principles, you must first have courage". we must have the courage to defend our values and our ideas.
madam president, i think we should congratulate ourselves and you, mr high representative, on the fact that the summit has taken place and that the channel of dialogue with china remains open, especially at this time. we need to restore détente and dialogue. the european union and china have deep differences, but we need each other to tackle the big challenges ahead: climate change, peace - now, arguably, the most important - and respect for the integrity of states and the international order, which has been blown up by the russian invasion of ukraine. china cannot turn a blind eye to the barbarity of bucha. i think it is very important to send a clear message to the chinese authorities of the responsibility they have to help end the war and to warn them of the consequences of not doing so. we must put on the table, as you have rightly said, all the problems we have to deal with. in trade policy, we must strike a balance in economic relations with china, ensuring reciprocity and a level playing field, equipping ourselves with the necessary effective instruments, without lukewarmness, with ambition. nobody wins by freezing the dialogue. i trust that china will take the steps that will allow the conditions to be created for its recovery. no intimidation of anyone, least of all of any member state of the union; no sanctions on anyone, least of all members of this parliament.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, we have not received any support from beijing against the invasion of ukraine. but how could it be otherwise? so why would a regime that puts uyghurs in camps, intends to vassalise its neighbours and considers us as strategic adversaries help us stop a regime that slaughters ukrainians, intends to vassalise its neighbours and considers us as strategic adversaries? ideas matter, and so does the nature of political systems. so it is time to assume the balance of power that is imposed on us: to no longer depend on russian energy, therefore, but also to no longer depend as much on the chinese production apparatus; time to stop being bullied, attacked or bought without reacting; time to remind our elites of the minimum duty of loyalty they owe to our countries and institutions; time to warn our former leaders who went to serve huawei that they will sooner or later face the shame of those who went to serve gazprom. in the face of putin or xi jinping, our principles and strategic interests converge, they do not conflict. and the best way to deter china from ever invading taiwan, well, is to make putin lose in ukraine.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a new word has entered the political language, a german word that untranslated means that everything is on the political test: zeitenwende. the eu-china relationship is also about to undergo a change of pace. china continues to avoid condemning russia's war crimes in full and to relativize the aggressive war, which is illegal under international law. china is opening up its markets to russian companies, becoming a war profiteer. the eu must not fall for china's double strategy of blinking to the right and turning to the left. we must therefore reduce our dependence on chinese technology and speed up the adoption and implementation of the chip act. we need to crack down on human rights abuses and environmental damage in supply chains. we must get rid of the chinese strategy of wanting to take the lead in global standardisation by having our own effective and democratically legitimised standardisation strategy. this change of pace means that we need to become strategically autonomous from authoritarian states in our supply chains that trample on our values.
mr president, dear high representative, dear colleagues, i am convinced that we all in this room want china to be our partner and to continue a dialogue on key areas, including deepening our trade and investment relationship, especially in this severely aggravated atmosphere of war on the european continent. unfortunately, the reality is different. there are many concerns, which require us to be vocal on what is happening in a country which is a permanent member of the un security council and at least supposed to play a constructive role in putin’s war in ukraine. but no. forging closer ties with moscow and adopting an ambiguous position in its war is particularly worrying. together with enduring human rights situations, the brutal crackdown against uyghurs in xinjiang, unjustified trade measures against lithuania, sanctions against members of the european parliament and direct interference in our society force eu to take a different approach towards china. we cannot turn a blind eye anymore.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, this summit has unfortunately not been a success for the european union. beijing's ambiguities are too much to bear, and the mistakes of the past are too much to bear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the lack of a european market for the supply of electricity. in 2021, we imported goods from china for twice the value of what we exported. to achieve the goals of the green deal, we will penalize our companies and make china even richer. with the war in ukraine, china will increase its influence on russia and will also benefit from our justified sanctions, hiding behind a facade of equidistance and helping moscow to circumvent them. we risk a new cold war and a new world order, in which europe and the west risk being the weakest. we must therefore use all our weight to make it clear to china that we want to bring our industries back home, we want to shorten value chains, we want to counter the new silk road with strategic investments inside and outside europe. i mean, we're not willing to give up on that prospect.
mr president, more than three decades since the end of the cold war, the free world once again faces a struggle: a struggle between freedom and democracy on the one hand and oppression and authoritarianism on the other. as i stated multiple times in this chamber, it is time to stop closing our eyes and falsely believe that dialogue and economic interdependence will help us to transform non—democratic regimes. today, from ukraine to xinjiang, we see the true cost of this. as the eu—china dialogue showed, the chinese side is unwilling to be a responsible global actor and use its leverage to stop putin’s aggression. it cannot, and will not, because of its own crimes and oppression across mainland china and hong kong; because of its coercive behaviour against third countries; or because of its design against the free people of taiwan. it’s time to spell out to the chinese communist party the consequences of these actions. particularly today, we need to speak about the costs for the complicity in putin’s aggression, including any future steps china might take to help russia avoid sanctions or lessen their impact. how we respond today will determine the world in which we will live tomorrow. russia and china claim that their friendship knows ‘no limits’. we should not underestimate this, but we should make it clear to both that our determination to defend freedom and democracy knows no limits too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, confucius said that to see what is right and not to do it is to lack courage. today, china under xi jinping cannot ignore this maxim of its greatest philosopher, to which other colleagues have also referred. more than a month after russia's dramatic invasion of ukraine, beijing has yet to clearly condemn putin's actions, instead implementing a policy of wait and see and an ambiguous equidistance. if we do not want to see a dialogue between the deaf, the union must insist that china play an active role in stopping the conflict, because this conflict is in no one's interest. not only that: europe must be clear that there will be countermeasures if china ends up helping putin in this massacre, including the recent terrible acts we have seen. one thing is certain: the european union must continue to show its determination in the face of international law and fundamental freedoms. it is the spirit which has inspired the work of our colleagues in the european parliament, even today under the sanctions of the chinese government. we therefore hope for genuine cooperation to stop the war: but it is up to beijing to show that it is on the side of peace and therefore against this unjust aggression.
mr president, mr high representative, unfortunately the eu-china summit was a deaf dialogue. beijing is refusing the outstretched hand of brussels to work together to find a solution and pressure putin to stop this barbarity. europe came with its questions and china with its answers, a china that often boasts of being a peaceful state and of having a strategic culture of defence rather than aggression. she will have to answer to future generations of chinese people for her support of putin. as for us, the european union, in the face of the unsustainable images of boucha, we must weigh the extent of our past mistakes. in recent years, we have been lacking in firmness towards russia. that is why it is so important today to stand firm against china and its aggression towards taiwan, as well as the human rights violations in hong kong and tibet and the monstrosities against the uyghurs. in the face of this new bush barbarity, i expect our eu representatives to keep up the pressure on beijing to stop supporting putin's war and finally leave taiwan in peace.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr president, honourable members, mr boutcha and mr irpine have confirmed the criminal, profoundly immoral and inhumane nature of the russian invasion of ukraine. to fail to act on these crimes would have been an insult to our values and a denial of our humanity. yesterday, europe once again demonstrated that it could decide, in the name of its fight in ukraine, in the name of our freedoms, in the name of democracy. since the beginning of the war we at renew europe have been calling for an embargo on coal: you have come halfway. i hope that the member states will follow these recommendations. we also welcome very much the proposals on the ban on access to ports, the ban on transactions for new institutions and targeted embargoes. but we already know that this will not be enough. we know that other images will soon flood social media and haunt our consciences. in kharkiv, in mariupol, we will discover brutality, barbarism - with unbearable proportions - we know it. that is why my group proposes that we go further already, to prepare the next steps and thus prepare the minds of the capitals for the inevitable. but it is also our duty to trigger new levers in the near future, including the effective exclusion of swift from all russian banks and financial institutions, a temporary embargo on oil - we have been asking for this since the beginning of the invasion - and also on gas. we know that it is difficult, that there may be, sometimes, technically insurmountable topics, but at this stage of the horror we must prepare for it. another aspect often overlooked in our discussions is the need to convince third countries to follow the european sanctions. given our trade links and sometimes the money we invest in them, i am quite surprised that some countries are not more supportive than europe. the diplomatic efforts must be continued and european diplomacy must continue to be persuasive. only by weakening the putin regime economically, financially, commercially will we force him to enter into real peace negotiations for ukraine. the message is to go a little further, ladies and gentlemen.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all appalled by the images of the mass killings of civilians in butcha. and i wanted to first of all have an emotional thought for their families and their loved ones, although, of course, no words can erase their pain. our parliament must take an oath here: we will not forget the hundreds of bodies that have piled up in the streets of boucha. i also think today of the entire ukrainian people who are suffering unspeakable atrocities but who continue to resist heroically in the face of the russian aggressor. i say this with all seriousness: there is a person responsible for this situation, vladimir putin, who will have to pay for all these war crimes, for the rape used as a weapon of war, for the massacre of irpin, the destruction of mariupol, for the mass killings of butcha. in the face of barbarism, our duty is always to oppose the law. the competent international courts must be called upon to investigate and prosecute these acts of sheer inhumanity, which cannot go unpunished. the european union must react with the utmost firmness to putin's excesses. additional sanctions must be taken to force him to end his insane war adventure. we've been saying for a month, we need to hit these oligarchs in the wallet even harder. only then can we weaken him enough to force him to negotiate. and for that, you don't take one yacht, you take all the yachts. we must not take one villa, but all the villas. we don't need to take a few million, we need to take all of them. so, mrs von der leyen, i repeat our request: why do you not demand from european tax havens the list of all russian oligarchs who hold assets, under pain of massive sanctions? the european union must also do everything in its power to ease ukraine's economic burden as it faces the risk of bankruptcy. the ukrainian people cannot be condemned to suffer the hardships of austerity and structural adjustment, which are added to those of war. we must also make a clear and unconditional commitment: let us cancel the ukrainian debt! it took a war as bad as this one to realize our dependence on fossil fuels. and instead of replacing one polluting energy with another, let us finally accelerate the development of renewable energy, the only guarantee of our energy independence. our continent is living in dark times. let us live up to the moment, according to the one and only compass that must guide our mandate: humanism, peace and the protection of peoples.
madam president, thank you for pointing out earlier that freedom of opinion and expression cannot be confused with the right to deny facts, with denial. in europe, there are those, and there are many, who thought that vladimir putin would never attack ukraine, as if 140,000 men massed at a border, it could be a bluff. the problem we had was not the quality of the information we had, because it was public. the problem we had was our inability to think the unthinkable from the comfort of our europe in peace. in europe, there are also those, and i hope they are ashamed, who did not want to deliver weapons to ukraine because they thought that the ukrainian army would collapse in three days. some of them changed their minds, but they wasted time, a crazy time. today we must continue, we must accelerate. for while the fighting may be less intense in the west, the hell of donbass is far from over. we must not accept it. we must not get used to it. and then there are those, and sometimes they are the same ones, who are waiting for further escalation by the russian military to increase the sanctions even further. some of them have told me that we must kill a few to make more. so i ask them to tell us what happened in butcha, the streets full of dead civilians, hands tied behind their backs. i ask them to tell us how they feel when they see before their eyes the evidence that massacres are being committed in ukraine by the russian army. i ask them to tell us what they are going to do and when - oh my god, when are they going to stop financing vladimir putin's war machine by continuing to import russian oil and gas? what are they waiting for? that putin himself turns off the tap? if they did not understand what happened yesterday, at least they understand how to act today, at least they let europe show courage and dignity.
madam president, mr high representative, my dear colleagues, 'yes yes' was what a russian opposition journalist told me this weekend, now a refugee in berlin, where he runs a very, very, very popular website in russia. 'yes yes', he said to me, 'but what can i answer to those of my countrymen who tell me: 'but the europeans, the westerners are hostile to us, because they take these sanctions against us, who will suffer from them.' he asked me this question after the publication of this address to the russian people signed by the presidents of four of our main political groups. i said to him: 'but listen, it's very simple. tell them that the punishment we are going to suffer, we are going to suffer. we are suffering too, but we accept to take them and suffer because we cannot remain silent in the face of the aggression that ukraine is suffering. and he was grateful for my answer, and he said, "yes, very well, i'll quote you". - thank you. - thank you. that's great. but at the same time i was thinking to myself, "am i really sincere? are we willing to suffer for it for so long? other and i knew that, yes, we accept a little, but not totally, but not completely, but not as much as the russians will suffer, and certainly not as much, of course, as the ukrainians suffer every moment, they, from the war, not from the sanctions. so, ladies and gentlemen, i have signed, with about ten other members, a small amendment to tomorrow's resolution. small amendment asking for the words 'as soon as possible, as swiftly as possible' to be removed from the gas embargo. we have governments. they will see how long it takes. but we in parliament must express our indignation and our desire to see the strongest and most complete sanctions imposed by an absolute and overwhelming majority. we are the voice of the european nation. we'll take it to moscow, and certainly to kiev.
madam president, today, more than ever, the world needs multilateralism, and so does innovation and research. many of our challenges know no borders: the pandemic, war or climate change. and in the same way of thought, no man or lab is an island. this is why working together is more important than ever in order to achieve great things and at greater speed. this is why protectionism and nationalism must not shut the door for collaboration. it is reciprocity and a mutually beneficial outcome that have to underpin our international cooperation. and it is programmes like horizon europe that are an excellent example of world-leading programmes. it is our doorway, in a way, to likeminded partners around the world, and i would like to join colleagues like martina dlabajová and others who called for such corporations. i think that now, together with the european commission, we must ensure that the chips act and the ai act are further opportunities to pursue european excellence in this area. thank you for your leadership, madam commissioner.
madam president! madam president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. fellow workers! first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner very warmly for all the initiatives that are being taken to support ukrainian scientists, both those who have fled to europe and those who have stayed behind. these are very important and necessary actions. good work, commissioner. that's a good job. the union aims to play a leading role in international research and to stimulate scientific excellence by enabling the best scientists to work together. such cooperation should be based on reciprocity and on equal terms. values such as freedom, integrity and autonomy in science also play a key role. the fact that all member states without exception have signed the bonn declaration on the freedom of scientific research is a clear manifestation of this. sadly, we see today that these values are sometimes challenged. we must defend them with all our might. certain steps have already been taken. for example, the commission presented guidelines this year on how to deal with foreign interference in research organisations, higher education institutions and the european union. that's a good move. however, there is a need for a broad effort to protect these values and to ensure mutual and equal cooperation within the whole of the european union's international research cooperation.
madam president, madam commissioner, the world has changed faster in a way that very few could have foreseen before the pandemic and the war. this change has made the oral question which gave rise to this debate even more timely and relevant. without research and innovation, there is no strategic autonomy. without strategic autonomy, the ability of peoples to determine their own future is undermined. however, strategic autonomy is a starting point and not an end point. protectionism and closure are not the way to go. they open the door to conflict, to inequality, to vulnerability and to suffering for millions of human beings. strategic autonomy and a focus on research and innovation should be the seeds of a global network of multilateral cooperation, which is secure, based on trust, attractive, open, sharing humanistic and sustainable values and priorities and fostering the circulation of knowledge. the european union must continue to embrace cause-based and values-based multilateralism and research and innovation must be the pillars of this geostrategic gamble.
member of the commission. madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, first of all, thank you very much for this exchange. thank you for your comments. i want to say it loud and clear: academic freedom, we stand by it. this is a serious matter and one which is also close to my heart. to your first question, mr ehler, i would say that this is a subject worth considering. as for your second question - how to respond to an invitation, which is always a positive one - i would like to say that i am open to the question. it seems to me that, while remaining within the legal framework of our cooperation, we have the opportunity to exchange regularly with the itre working group. we have been transparent when negotiating the association agreements and have created a web page where you can find all the information. what i am proposing now is to say that my team and i remain very committed to full transparency when the european parliament has to be kept informed of what is happening in the framework of the association agreements. my answer is that i remain at your disposal to study the matter and see what could still be improved. now i would also like to confirm, dear members of the european parliament, that in the face of the global challenges we face, the solution will not come from a retreat into oneself. climate change is a global problem and we need to mobilise the european and other countries' scientific community as much as possible. this is why horizon europe is an open programme. however, this openness must not jeopardise our technological sovereignty or our fundamental values, including academic freedom and institutional autonomy. we will continue our efforts to ensure that all european researchers continue to be guaranteed a working environment that respects these values, so that they can express their talents in the best conditions. this is also true for ukrainian researchers; we're on their side. i shall particularly monitor the implementation of the various support measures in their favour. as you know, yesterday we announced €25 million with a new marie skłodowska-curie action for ukraine. we want to offer the possibility to ukrainian researchers who are forced to flee their country to have conditions in which they will be able to work on their project for the next two years. i also know that the european parliament has a pilot project which this time is not just for ukrainian researchers, because any researcher in danger must be protected. what i would suggest is a real step-by-step approach. we now have the new marie skłodowska-curie action, we have a pilot project: let us keep this subject in mind and, if necessary, we will go further. finally, i would also like to say that the international reach of horizon europe is based on our cooperation with countries, but above all on cooperation with countries that share our values. your message today was clear: remain open, but not without conditions, not without respect for the fundamental values of academic freedom or the guarantee for researchers to work in good conditions. i thank you very much and i am sure that this debate will not be the last on this subject.
in writing. we are facing huge global challenges today. one of the european union's roles in dealing with them must be to build international relations and cooperation in the spirit of humanism and the promotion of universal values. it is the shared values of democracy and peaceful co-operation that provide the framework within which innovation and research must be further developed. it is science, innovation and technological progress that are the key ingredients for the development of individuals and societies. for the european union to play its role effectively, internal consistency is necessary as regards the objectives and direction of cooperation with third countries. here i would like to stress the importance of developing the eu's strategic autonomy, which will strengthen the union's competitiveness. scientific research in strategic areas such as energy, transport, health and the environment is absolutely invaluable for the future and competitiveness of the union. while strengthening the european union's research potential, we must also keep in mind the promotion of democratic values. we have to keep these two elements connected. therefore, the autonomy and freedom of scientific research should be further promoted.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 2.11 p.m.)
author. madam president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the bodies of butcha, the martyrdom of mariupol, the women raped, the children tortured, the civilians executed - this is the real face of putinism. the face of an evil that for 20 years our leaders have refused to see, name and fight on our borders and in the very heart of our cities. today, the war in ukraine is forcing us to open our eyes. the moment is so grave and so decisive that it would be suicidal to conceal the truth. and the truth is that for years european political forces have chosen the side of a regime whose mission is to weaken, destabilise and shake up our democracies. the truth is that a far-right international has found in putin its patron, its financier and its model. the truth is that french, austrian and german political leaders who spend their time lecturing on patriotism have chosen to serve a foreign tyrant who is hostile to the principles and interests of our nations and of europe as a whole. the truth is that we have too often bowed our heads to these patriotic trinkets and that we must now look them straight in the eye and confront them relentlessly. the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that in france a candidate for the presidency owes millions of euros to oligarchs close to the kremlin and is in debt to the enemies of european democracy. yes, the truth is that marine le pen sold herself to vladimir putin, a long time ago, and that she may, tomorrow perhaps, become president of france. this truth must not be lost by any trick. in the aftermath of the invasion, the national assembly attempted to destroy 1.2 million of the tracts. why would you do that? because they contained a photo of her, smiling, shaking hands with vladimir putin. but there are other pictures. there's the kissing with rogozin, there's the hugging with narychkin. yes, you know, narychkin, the head of the svr - the russian foreign intelligence service - who was humiliated by the tsar in this surreal scene shortly before the war. this is the man who has been running the le pen family, aunt or niece, live for the kremlin for over ten years. and there are no longer any servants of russian interests around le pen, those who have been in this chamber, those who are still there, messrs schaffhauser, chauprade, mariani, lebreton. these close ties with moscow are by no means a french specialty. they are found in all the european far-right parties afd, lega, fpö, vox : no wonder these so-called sovereignists never had a word to condemn the russian attacks on our sovereignty. not a word to denounce the cyber attacks on our hospitals in the middle of a pandemic. not a word to condemn the murders of opponents on our soil by the russian services. not a word to stigmatize the attacks of wagner's mercenaries against france on the european continent. the party of the foreigner, as they say, is them. the collabos, as they say, are them. don't be surprised, it's a tradition. joseph de maistre once published his counter-revolutionary brilliant from st. petersburg and the cursed of the french collaboration lectured on jewish france in sigmaringen. whether in russian or german, our far right is always speaking the same language that is foreign to democracy, that of the autocrats. my dear colleagues, the truth is sometimes painful, but we have no choice but to tell it to the end. to be credible in our fight against putin and his european affiliates, we also need to clean up our own ranks, left and right. the social democrats have gerhard schröder, the conservatives have françois fillon, the liberals have esko aho. but nowhere else but on the far right has this corruption, this submission to the putin regime become a political and ideological project. then we can't praise anymore. our states and institutions must urgently ban foreign funding and anonymous donations to political parties and foundations; to impose full transparency on the funding of ngos and associations that feed into public debate; highlight and break the links between the russian oligarchs sanctioned by the european union and european politicians. our democracies have sinned for too long through weakness, laziness, indolence, corruption. barring putin's way in ukraine and his minions in our own countries is one and the same fight. the fight for freedom and democracy in europe is, i do not think, any more sacred or urgent today. let's take it all the way.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, the european far right calls itself nationalist and patriotic. the trouble is, the nation she's defending is vladimir putin's russia. june 2013: marine le pen visits russia, the first of a series of visits to moscow that she will make with enthusiasm. one of the men accompanying him sums up the journey. he envies the russians, who have a real leader. she returned to crimea in april 2014, just after the annexation of crimea. marine le pen has no soul states and recognizes crimea as russian. the kremlin is rubbing its hands. in an exchange of sms that was hacked by activists and made public, two members of the russian presidential administration congratulate each other: she did not betray our expectations, we will have to thank the french in one way or another. i want to make it clear that this exchange has never been denied. the reward will soon be two loans totalling €11 million, which i know have not yet been repaid. in 2017, marine le pen is received by vladimir putin. you'd think she'd be ashamed of it today. well, not at all. the photo of his handshake appears in the widely circulated pamphlet supporting his candidacy for the presidency of the french republic. and his agenda is a black and white alliance with russia. two days ago, she was saying that vladimir putin could become an ally again after the end of the war in ukraine. in fact, marine le pen is wrong and we are wrong: vladimir putin has never ceased to be her ally, as well as that of the entire french far right. eric zemmour, the newcomer to the political scene in my country, had made the trip to moscow in september 2015 and also met with relatives of vladimir putin. he'll return several times, as will his followers. he dreams of a french putin and considers the russian president a democrat. it is true that for eric zemmour, ukraine does not exist. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am ashamed of those of my countrymen who have become cozy and enslaved to a dictator and a war criminal. i was ashamed of them, but they were not ashamed of anything, they were born before shame.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are not at war, but we are not at peace. the invasion of ukraine has painfully served us to understand how much putin's totalitarian strategy affects us. it serves to complete a puzzle of which destabilisation of the european union by hybrid threats and industrial disinformation is a part. putin's agents have worked to break up the european union, also through ethno-nationalist parties in catalonia, with puigdemont and his entourage. with leaders hiding in this european parliament today to escape justice. the false europeans, the false patriots, act against the interests of the people they claim to defend, the flags they claim to defend. some, by the way, are hiding these days because putin's lies and bombs offend, as never before, even the convenience-blind. the european parliament has approved two reports and they ask us to look deeply into the case of interference and hybrid threats in catalonia. this investigation needs to be brought to the surface to find out exactly what the kremlin operatives were doing. ladies and gentlemen, we need this in-depth investigation, because it is several years of disinformation, lies, hybrid threats, russian-backed sabotage to break democracy in a member state of our european union. and it can be a precedent.
madam president, it is not normal that just a few days ago the leader of the largest parliamentary group in this house gave credence to fake news that attempts to link putin to catalan independence. or do they not know that it was the european commission itself which acknowledged in a written reply that the alleged european report on which these fake news are based does not exist, mr zarzalejos? let's investigate, yes, investigate all you want, mrs pagazaurtundúa. it has not been catalonia that has been cooperating with the putin regime, doing business with him all these years; it has been some of the big european states that have been feeding that regime. putin is leaving ukraine with mass graves and some are taking advantage of these deaths to legitimize their obsession against catalonia. it's immoral, it's immoral, it's immoral, it's immoral, it's immoral, it's immoral, it's immoral, it's immoral, it is immoral, it is immoral, it is immoral, it is immoral. putin is a good student of franco, because spain has also been full of mass graves for ninety years, and those who do not want to open these graves and those who do not want to cut with francoism are the allies of the european people's group the pp gentlemen and the allies of their allies the vox gentlemen, thanks to whom the pp governs in four autonomous communities. in the conflict between catalonia and spain, it is the right-wing that represents an authoritarian political culture, which today putin embodies like no one else in the world in the war with ukraine... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker).
there is a city where extreme-right parties lie together and where the russia-led international investment bank has recently moved its headquarters. this city is budapest. marine le pen, éric zemmour, vox party leaders and others have often taken pilgrimages there. in march 2021, viktor orbán called for the creation of a new european right-wing force for his type of people. those who he says want to protect their families and homelands. there is a country where zelinskyy is portrayed as an enemy, where doubts are publicly voiced about russian responsibility in the invasion of ukraine and where ukraine’s suffering does not evoke that much empathy. this country is hungary, and there is a government who does not protect european and national information from western spying. indeed, hungarian diplomacy has practically become an open book for moscow through the hacking of the fidesz ministry of foreign affairs network, which the government had direct knowledge of, but failed to alert their european counterparts. budapest could become the entry point for russian disinformation, russian money and the connecting thread between extreme-right organisations.
for the greens/efa group madam president, the situation is well known: four years ago this parliament launched the article 7.1 procedure against the hungarian government, but it has been twelve years since an autocracy took shape in the european union. and the inaction of the european institutions is such that it can be considered that this has partly helped to legitimize this autocracy and above all to feed it financially. the feeding of anti-european political choices, the feeding of public policies based on an extreme right-wing ideology, the feeding of corrupt oligarchs who have regularly embezzled european money, this is documented. but since 2018, the council has not played the game. the article 7 hearings of the hungarian government were not transparent and even less regular. only the finns and the portuguese have done so. we have just received confirmation that there will be another on 30 may, under the french presidency. but now a higher step has to be taken, that of recommendations, and i dare say, this was said just before me, perhaps it is time today also to talk about sanctions, even if this has never been seen. it's time to act. i have always said that, whatever the outcome of the elections on sunday, the article 7 procedure must continue, because the dismantling of rights and freedoms, the rule of law and democracy in hungary is immense. it has permanently destabilised laws, structures and society. twelve years of misinformation has had devastating effects. during these elections it was understood that a part of the hungarian population sincerely believed that the opposition, aided by europe, would bring the ukrainian war to the heart of hungary. a part of the population sincerely believes that the opposition, helped by europe, will change the sex, the gender of children in kindergarten, from an early age, and they really believe it. it seems like fiction to us, but to them, it's become real. the question for governments in all member states today is therefore whether they are validating this fact. do they accept an autocracy within their european union, a space of intoxication with disinformation, a space of intoxication with hatred of europe and a space of intoxication with complacency towards the putin dictatorship?
madam president, mr secretary of state, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, viktor orbán tells us that his electoral victory is so great that it can probably be seen from the moon, and certainly from brussels. so yes, we have been seeing it from brussels, from strasbourg, for 12 years now. twelve years he cleverly built his system to ensure his re-election: opposition banned from airtime, tailor-made electoral cutting, misinformation. further proof, if need be, that once the far right reaches power, it stops playing the game of democracy that it claims to defend. so you on the right of this house, the friends of le pen, of zemmour, yes, you are playing. and you, who are playing the apprentice autocrats, we will stand firm to the end, in this house, at the polls, in hungary, in poland, in france too. because your lies, your destructive schemes, our democracies will always prevail.
madam president, madam commissioner, it seems to me that our debate is marked by an ambivalence which some people are trying to exploit. of course, the principle of non-refoulement prohibits a state from sending back outside its borders someone who would be in danger in the country to which they are being returned. but the principle of non-refoulement does not mean that it is forbidden to control one's borders. the principle of non-refoulement does not mean that it is forbidden to send back, for example in turkey, when that state is trying to exploit our vulnerability in terms of migration, people who obviously will not be in danger if they are sent back to that country. today, this confusion is causing the humanitarian tragedy that some say they want to avoid. i went to the island of evros, i met those who are now trapped by what some call an eldorado and which turns out to be a dead end. behind the beautiful statements here is the obvious complicity with the trade of the smugglers who, on our naivety, build the dreams on which they prosper by creating so much misery. and we must be clear today: if we continue down this path of absurd criminalisation, if we continue to explain that a border guard has no right to guard a border, if we continue to make it seem that we have no right to refuse entry to people who clearly have no right to come and settle illegally in europe, we will only cause the humanitarian catastrophes that we will later lament, and cause the deaths that are mourned around europe, the mediterranean sea and the borders of our continent.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to quote a few sentences from a text which was published two days ago, i believe, by the ria novosti agency, that is to say, the most official organ of the kremlin. it reads: "denazification is a set of measures against the nazi mass of the ukrainian population. we need to do a full cleanup. in addition to the high ranking officers, a significant part of the popular masses who are passive nazis, collaborators of nazism, are also guilty. the duration of denazification can in no case be less than one generation. ukrainian nazism, you know? nazi ukraine is no less a threat to peace and russia than german nazism was to hitler, etc., etc. mr. putin's kremlin, that is. that's what you just heard, that is quotes from the regime's mein kampf. because i am not exaggerating, this text is the mein kampf of mr putin's regime. so what do we do about it? well, never forget that russia is not that. never forget to reach out to russia and say: "we mean you no harm. we want to build a continent of peace and stability with you.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam commissioner, the aggression against ukraine has demonstrated the importance of european solidarity. the conflict in ukraine is still marked by violent and intensified fighting and the number of refugees continues to increase. millions of ukrainians, mostly children and women, are fleeing ukraine and seeking refuge in neighbouring countries. many ukrainians have lost everything. our duty is to ensure that everyone has shelter, food, access to education for children, access to health care, including reproductive and sexual health, including psychological support. as you said earlier, commissioner, we need to do more to deal with the scale of the humanitarian crisis that is ongoing and that does not seem to be coming to an end. after unlocking a first aid package two weeks ago, we welcome this new commission proposal to respond to a crisis whose evolution and scale remain uncertain. this will allow the mobilisation of funds available through react-eu to help member states hosting the largest number of refugees fleeing war. in future too we will have to live up to that, the european union must welcome refugees, not only ukrainians, but all those seeking refuge in the european union. this crisis must be an opportunity for us to rethink our migration policy and put respect for fundamental rights and respect for the right to asylum back at its core. and of course our political group supports this funding.
mr president, europe does not want roma and travellers, so it rejects them in unsuitable areas. in france, according to data collected by william acker, mobile populations are exposed to environmental nuisances: sewage treatment plants, seveso industrial sites, such as lubrizol in rouen, or polluting mills such as hellemmes-ronchin. in hellemmes-ronchin, just last weekend, the reality of exclusion was brought into sharp focus. a fire broke out and the fire brigade was unable to respond because of the anti-trailer devices at the entrance to the site. but lives were at stake. this is how travelers live. that's how they sometimes die. so these people are organizing and fighting for their rights. in hellemmes-ronchin, women in the da so vas association are fighting against the pollution their families are exposed to. sue-ellen, pruna, mercedes or malicia are all asking for justice. we must hear their voices and those of all the roma and travellers in europe. europe must defend the basic rights of roma and travellers, starting with the right to live in a healthy environment.
mr president, i would also like to add my voice to the urgency of this subject. the debate here, the emotions, show how serious and important this is, but the main thing to emphasize is that there are 10 to 12 million roma living in europe, who are our fellow citizens. they are europeans with huge social problems, and we simply have to deal with them, it is our duty. we are representatives of the european citizens and we cannot ignore the fact that such a large group of our citizens often live on the edge of poverty, that their children have difficulty in getting an education. the statistics that my colleagues have already mentioned, 85% of roma children are at risk of poverty. this is such compelling information, such compelling numbers, that it's not an academic debate. that debate has to take place, and it's good that it's happening here today. and it is mainly a challenge to you, commissioner, to the commission as the executive body of the european union, to do your utmost to ensure that we do not just have strategic frameworks for roma, that we do not just have strategies that are described in many papers, but that we actually do something. and i know that it is very difficult, i know from my own country, how often it is difficult to get european money for roma projects. but we must do our utmost to improve the situation of the roma. my time is up, but consider this an appeal and a plea to the commission.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the fact that you are mentioning the name salvini here shows what attitude you have. salvini is one of the biggest racists we have here in europe. if you accept what salvini has done, you belong right there in those chains.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. europe is in an unprecedented defense against attack. we are defending security, we are defending the freedom of europeans and we are defending the values that europe stands for. and among those values is that we uphold human dignity and freedom in europe. this also means that we, here in the assembly of european citizens in the european parliament, are concerned that minorities also have rights of freedom, also enjoy the rule of law and on the international day of the roma and sinti, especially the roma and sinti , in the field of education, in the social field, in participation in all areas of society. that's what we're defending here. it is sad to see that in this debate, in this european parliament, the forces which are supposed to have been supported in the past by those who are now attacking europe are the same forces that are now questioning the rights of the roma and sinti in this debate. it is a matter of the utmost importance that human dignity and the right to freedom continue to be given priority. it was important for me to speak on this debate because on 2 august, in the shoah, in the holocaust, in the national socialist criminal state, thousands of roma and sinti were murdered in the genocide of roma and sinti. it is 2 august, which is european remembrance day, and i recommend to all member states that they make 2 august also european remembrance day to commemorate the crimes of national socialism against the roma and sinti.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, citizens outside europe who are listening to us, who are watching us, are asking: but why is europe so stupid? but why is europe wasting time? but, above all, why is europe throwing away money, lots and lots of money, on so many initiatives that have produced zero results? all that money spent and nothing. why would you do that? because the roma have had years to decide to be included in society, but they have decided, they have wanted, they have chosen not to be included in the european community, in our countries, in our structures. and then it takes a little common sense, it takes a little justice. and justice would like to think that today, in a brave move, europe decides to take the money allocated to the roma and put it at the disposal of supporting ukrainian children and women fleeing war. this is european justice! that is what the citizens expect! we use roma money to assist and to help those children and women who today, as refugees, flee from war by choosing to save their child and their family. the european resources can thus be transformed from a waste into a help, from a waste into an opportunity. i understand that some people see the use of european resources for the roma as an opportunity for electoral patronage, but people can't stand it anymore. i think that, in the face of the desperation of a mother who asks for help to get her son to italy or to europe safe and sound, this kind of help is needed and no other. (the speaker closed by showing the house an a3 picture)
according to the rules, you do not have the right to show that kind of posters.
we have a request for a blue card, but we have already made a lot of use of that right and we have been late enough and also i think that the matter has already been covered. the colleague who is asking for a blue card has spoken and has already exercised his right to a blue card on another occasion.
mr president, commissioner, marginalized communities: that means someone is being overlooked. how can anyone be overlooked in the european union? when you hear about the plight of roma children, it really breaks your heart. there's hunger, there's disease, there's poor access to health care, to education, there's a lack of affordable housing and, of course, jobs. what are we missing? community work with these populations, with these marginalized communities. of course, we lack social and individual work. that's what we need most. but we also have successful examples of communities, of regions, that are engaged in this kind of daily, continuous, individual social work. segregation and discrimination really should have no place in our union. a mayor once told me about the situation of the roma: 'when i was a citizen, i didn't care about them at all. when i was in business, i didn't cooperate with them, and then when i was mayor, i started to ignore them. but i realized that my approach was not working, and we started working with them and my colleagues. and the results are in. let's do the same procedure, please. let's use our programs, let's use our strategies. this debate is just a debate. we don't have any resolution here at all. why are we just talking here and there's no resolution? i do not understand the attitude of this parliament and our political groups, that we tell our stories, our opinions and take no position on them. that's too bad.
mr president, i say to the commissioner: in 2011 the commission did a good job. the eu adopted its roma integration strategies for the coming decade. on paper, the right solutions were there, but in reality we had to conclude that 10 years later, member states throughout europe had done close to nothing to implement these policies. and in 2022, romani people are still subject to persistent, dehumanising discrimination. they face poor access to health care, education and the labour market. this would have been already unacceptable if it was about a few people, but we are talking about at least 10 million romani people in the eu. how can we systematically neglect so many europeans? the new framework sets out minimum standards for 2030. we have to make sure we exceed them way before 2030. and by the way, president, i am disgusted by the exponents of flat-out racism and discrimination in this parliament. we, on the side of dignity, humanity and equal opportunities are worth more.
madam president, i actually had another speech prepared in romanian, but i decided to change my intervention because i saw what the extreme right was saying earlier here in the plenary of the european parliament. they were attacking a group of people, a group of europeans. they were attacking the roma community. this should never happen in this house because, when we speak about europeans, when we speak about roma people, we speak about human rights. we speak about us being together, and we speak about the need to correct what is not working well, but also to look ahead and identify those policies and those directions that can resolve the issues and the problems, not point out and discriminate like they did. and now they have left the house. they attacked and they left the house. this is not the way to proceed. this is not the way to do things. this is why we have to think ahead. we have to establish a concrete plan, an action plan that will resolve all of these issues. we need to act together and we need to show that the roma community has a future here in europe, everywhere in europe, in all member states, and we have to identify the solutions to enable this.
madam president, i am very grateful for the opportunity to pay tribute once again to the marginalised situation of the roma community in the european union, who are constantly being brought to the attention of the european union by the unacceptable discrimination they suffer at all levels in the member states of the european union. i remember recently watching a documentary by the former chair of a committee of this european parliament, mrs nicholsonová, about the completely unacceptable situation of the roma community in the czech republic. and i would particularly like to pay tribute to the representatives of the roma community who have had a seat in this european parliament, from juan de dios ramírez heredia to, in this legislature, lívia járóka and romeo franz, who are raising awareness of the importance of overcoming this discrimination by implementing the european strategy against discrimination against the roma community in the european union, step by step.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this debate. roma are europe’s largest ethnic minority, with a strong 12 million roma population, of whom more than half are living in the eu. many of them continue to confront racism, discrimination, anti-gypsyism and socio—economic exclusion. roma communities throughout europe are found at the fringes of our society, often completely segregated. life in such poverty—stricken communities is particularly harsh. people’s future prospects are severely limited by being trapped in this spiral of poverty and of a lack of opportunities and few, if any, exit routes from such an environment. i will ensure that the commission monitors the implementation at national level and publishes regular reports on the progress achieved. we remain committed to supporting member states every step of the way so that we can deliver on our promise of equality for all.
in writing. the past two years have brought new challenges to our lives, and the eu roma strategy and action plan need to be updated in many ways. the health situation, the post-covid and cancer rates, the lack of prevention, the livelihood challenges of millions of people affected by the war, the rise of racism all require a rapid and unified response. we must ensure the right of access to clean drinking water for all. we need to prepare for the challenges of rising inflation, post-covid and post-war times, because all of these will increase the poverty rate, will increase the severity of the challenges! the commission must therefore be able to react more quickly to the situation, which requires more impulse and more serious thinking. the range of civil society organisations that cooperate should be drastically expanded, taking into account that they reflect all political strata of society, and that good local practices should be brought to the eu level. since 2010, the number of people living in poverty or at risk of social exclusion in hungary has decreased by 1.3 million. we've established an extensive family support system. we've introduced home improvement grants, we've got home improvement grants, we've got baby loans, we've got car loans. i suggest that other eu member states follow the hungarian example and include these good practices as part of their own national roma strategies. the key to successful roma integration is the implementation of successful national roma strategies, but this requires strong political will in the member states!
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, imco chair anna cavazzini, and the members of the committee for this motion for a resolution and the oral question on a right to repair. let me start by highlighting that the commission shares the concerns you express in the oral question and motion for a resolution. the right to repair is one of the key legislative initiatives of the 2022 commission work programme. the rights of consumers to repair products at fair prices will be strengthened with a view to extending the useful life of goods. we have taken good note of the three dimensions that parliament stresses in the motion. first, that products need to be designed to last longer and be repaired. second, that consumers are empowered to choose repairable products. and third, that consumer rights and guarantees provide for longer use of goods. on the basis of its overall objective of the green transition, the commission is already working on each of these three issues. these initiatives will tackle both the supply and the demand side of the problem and will contribute to more sustainable consumption. on the supply side and responding to the first dimension raised by parliament, the commission adopted last week, on 30 march, the proposal for a sustainable products initiative. this initiative aims to extend the lifetime of products, so that it becomes regular practice to design products that are durable and fit for reuse, upgrading, refurbishment and repair. on the demand side and responding to the second dimension, on 30 march, the commission also adopted an initiative on empowering consumers for the green transition. with this proposal, the commission wants to ensure that consumers are provided with better information on the durability and reparability of products. it also provides new tools to national courts and authorities to protect consumers against unfair practices regarding, for example, early obsolescence. finally, and responding to the third dimension and also on the demand side, a proposal for an initiative on promoting the sustainability of consumer goods in the sale of goods directive and through a consumer right to repair is planned before the end of this year. the commission’s services are currently carrying out the preparatory work. a public consultation closed on 5 april and its results will feed into the impact assessment. the objective of this initiative is to encourage goods to be used for longer, more defective goods to be repaired, and more second-hand goods to be purchased. the commission is therefore analysing measures that would promote repair over replacement. in addition to the mentioned proposals, the commission’s sectoral approach on green procurement and the proposal for a data act also contribute to the sustainability and promotion of repairs.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is good that we are talking today about the right to repair, because it is a slogan that sends an important signal for sustainability, but which we as the epp group also want to complement with innovation. you know, i come from the black forest, and the black forest is known for its many craftsmen, mechanics and home improvement workers. and so it's kind of in our blood that we naturally address the question of what parts of products can be replaced and easily replaced. this is an important question, not only for people's technical understanding, but also for the sustainability of production capacity. that is why we are expressly supporting this issue today. we also see that there are more and more repair shops which want to explicitly accept such simple, interchangeable products, which want to deal with offering the user of now often complex digital tools a service which enables them to deal with these tools even faster and easier. and that's good. i am therefore pleased that you have taken such a balanced position. i am sure that we need the right to repair slogan on the one hand, which makes it clear that we want sustainability. but on the other hand we must also ensure that individual technical innovations which may also be of interest to consumers and where repairs may not be so easy are not automatically excluded. we need a single market for consumers which brings innovation and repair into harmony. and i think we're drilling in the right place with our question today. and that is why we are waiting for the european commission to propose.
on behalf of the s&d club. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to have the opportunity to vote on such an important issue today. as many as 77% of eu citizens would rather repair a device than buy a new one. yet, the waste in our environment is piling up, and citizens are forced to buy new appliances over and over again. it is crucial that the consumer knows at the time of purchase how long the product will last and how easy or difficult it is to repair it in case of failure. it's the only way we can give consumers a real choice between sustainable and unsustainable products. my recent survey in croatia showed that 81 percent of citizens consider repairs to be unprofitable. the main reasons are the high cost and the unavailability of spare parts. spare parts must be available for the expected life of the device, delivery must be prompt, the price must be reasonable. to make repairs more attractive to consumers, we need to provide financial incentives, but also a replacement product obligation while the repairs are completed. it's very important, in approaching this problem, to start from the eco-design phase to manufacture in a way that both the consumer and the service provider can easily fix a potential failure. we all remember when we used to change the dead battery on our cell phone ourselves. today, it sticks to the device, so removal only causes additional failure. it is important that the commission insists in future initiatives on the shared responsibility of both the trader and the producer towards the citizen. speaking of design, i've had a lot of people complain to me about how their device broke down right after the warranty expired. the european commission study confirmed the same, and it can't be a coincidence. it is crucial to ban all forms of embedded malfunction including digital malfunctions. a lot of people update their smart device just because they're getting aggressive notifications, not because they know what the latest update actually means for the device itself. in my country, more than 60 percent of citizens have noticed that after updating their device, it slows down or its battery life is shorter. that is why we, socialists and democrats, are in favour of a mandatory guarantee, that it should better reflect the real life of the device. we expect the commission to take ambitious steps in this direction. every crisis forces us to think outside the box. repairing and reusing products creates far more quality and environmentally friendly jobs than throwing them away or even recycling them. also, we are perhaps more aware now than ever of the limitations of resources in manufacturing. that is why irresponsible business practices such as destroying or burning unsold goods should be prohibited. living green cannot be the privilege of a few, but the standard for everyone in the european union. thank you very much.
for the renew group. - madam president! consumer rights and the green transition are two important agendas for both renew in this house and for my party, the left. when we talk about the circular economy and the commission's forthcoming proposal, right to repair, it is crucial that we require producers to use resources in the best possible and most efficient way. we need to get even better at using data to extend the life of products. we must be particularly careful about introducing regulations which undermine the intellectual rights of the company. in other words, there is a balance, an important but also difficult balance. renew's goal is to boost the circular economy while improving products for consumers. you need to be in the driver's seat. without well-functioning businesses, no proper products. without a circular economy, there is no future for us as citizens and as consumers. that is the balance we hope to achieve. i have full confidence that with the proposal now before us we shall reach a sensible solution to this. i think it will be difficult to find the decisive disagreement on these matters in this house, so we look forward to the commission's forthcoming proposals.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dear anna cavazzini, thank you very much for this motion for a resolution on the right to reparation. our single market must be more sustainable, to avoid waste and waste, of course, to protect the planet, consumers and consumers. to do this, we must get out of a consumer society which has become a consumer society. the right to redress must be guaranteed to consumers. to do this, they must be informed and companies and manufacturers must be held accountable, not the other way around. this means mandatory labelling of products to ensure durability and repairability, and access to spare parts. that was voted in this house two years ago. two years ago, too, this house voted to ban the premature obsolescence of products, because it has a negative effect on the planet, on consumers and on consumers. the question we are concerned with and about is not a question of tinkering. repairing is good for local employment, for the sovereignty of the european union, for the european economy, for the consumer's wallet and, of course, it is good for the environment and the climate.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, thank you anna for this fine resolution. in europe we are the world champions in electronic pollution: no less than 12 million tonnes of this waste are generated every year, or 16.2 kg per capita. a mountain of tvs, computers, connected toys, washing machines, phones. the recycling industry in europe is one of the most developed, but it is still far from being enough. we know that much of this waste ends up in nature, not recycled or shipped to other countries where it feeds open-air landfills, also polluting the soil. we send our waste to africa and asia for the sake of our little european comfort, but with total disregard for the environment and the people. this is why we must act quickly: we must oblige manufacturers to make spare parts available and to facilitate repair. these must be available at a lower cost. what about the planned obsolescence that is a scourge for consumers, their purchasing power and the planet? let us therefore encourage consumers to assert their rights and to give priority, as they wish, to the repair of their products, which is 77%. let them make fully informed purchasing choices based on mandatory product repair indices. the right to redress is a right and a right of common sense for consumers.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for your efforts, but it is time for the commission to come forward with a real european strategy for mental health. several instruments already exist and have a mental health dimension. health at work, minimum wage, child benefit, european social fund: we have to articulate them. to be more effective, our approach will have to be global. mental health is determined by individual and collective factors. it must therefore be taken into account in all european policies. this requires commitment from the member states, but also european coordination of initiatives and actions. we need funding, but also indicators to target priority areas, on the model of the cancer inequality register, because reducing inequalities must be a priority here too.
madam president, my group is unambiguously and unreservedly in favour of military support for ukraine. we even want more arms deliveries, faster and more countries to be able to participate in them in the european union. that said, to see a proposal to add a technical, precise and thoroughly examined item to our agenda without prior notice or examination does not seem to me to be the right approach or method. we risk having an uncertain, imprecise debate, hesitations, doubts and reluctance in public. and the only one who could be happy about that is russian president vladimir putin. the group i belong to doesn't see any reason to give him this gift. we therefore oppose the request for an increase put forward by our colleagues from the epp.
madam president, i understand that we cannot vote in favour. however, i would also like to express, on behalf of my group, our support for this resolution, which was also tabled in the conference of presidents, and our wish that it be carried through.
blue-card speech. – mr president, first i would like only to say that i don’t know why someone forgot that in 2018 this idea was repealed by this house by a huge majority. and this was not said by the rapporteur, which is a false thing. in 2018, this idea was repealed. but what i would like to ask you is, where did you see a link between the lead candidate and transnational lists? because when i read the piece of legislation, there is not one word about your lead candidate. i see it in recitals, i see it in the resolution, but not in the text of the law. and so this is false, that to have a lead candidate we need transnational lists. that is false. and i would like you to quote me what is the article in the piece of legislation where this is written?
blue-card answer. – on the first point it is a different file from the file in 2018, because for good reasons you have voted against it because there was no balance between big member states, medium member states and small member states. well, we, especially in domènec’s report, have taken that as the basis for the proposal, so making a balance between the member states so that that argument that you have used, with right reasons, doesn’t exist anymore. second point: the second point is that you cannot put that in that file in the electoral law. therefore, it is in the recital. and in the recital we explain very clearly what the engagement is of this parliament, that we will never designate, nominate, a president of the commission who has not been a lead candidate – lead candidate on this transnational list.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, i will not disappoint guy verhofstadt. this report fits into what i call the 'brexit paradox'. it seemed logical to me that, after the departure of a large and important member state such as the united kingdom, those who advocate the further expansion of the power of the centralised unitary state called the european union should reflect on whether they have gone too far, whether the people of the european union are in favour of the concept and whether there should not be a more balanced relationship with the desire of most european citizens for national identity. the elite in the european parliament, led by guy verhofstadt, and in the european commission, on the other hand, have done the opposite in a kind of panic reaction. the knights of the european state and the european empire have been thrown into a convulsion and have expanded their power and authority in a few years to the point where we can now speak of an irreversible situation: european debts, european taxation, the replacement of the member states by a majority principle, public health, the building up of a military complex, the organization of unlimited immigration and the persecution of member states which do not join in. these cases have been introduced at an accelerated pace in recent years, for fear of arousing public opinion. the european union also wants to introduce its own electoral system as a cherry on top of the cake. it is thus placing under its control the way in which member states have been able to elect their representatives to the european parliament, according to their own political and cultural views. the principle of representatives of the people no longer representing their own people but only the european union is also being established. for people like me who would rather have thought about the direction in which european cooperation should evolve - a matter of historical importance - this report is not good news.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i am categorically against this report, of course. he's another proof and another example of how there are people in this room who live in a very different place, outside of the living world. this report clearly shows that there is still thinking in the ngo schemes and thinking in the direction of taking sovereignty away from nation states and giving it to ngos, giving it to people who are not accountable to anyone. not to mention that this report is in clear violation of the treaties. it is possible for the number of european representatives from one country to break and go beyond the limits of these treaties. it's a clear indication of something that you're still in this room thinking that the world revolves around you, but it doesn't. and the right to vote should remain in the nation-states, in the national democracies and in the citizens, because they are responsible, they choose, they live in their own countries and they don't need anyone outside to tell them how to live and how not to live. so i am categorically against this report, it is harmful and it is heading for disaster.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague domènec ruiz devesa on this excellent report. i shall not return to one of the major topics under discussion, namely the transnational lists, but i would like to return to another element. you will notice that in this report there is mention of the possibility of having alternating lists of women, men, women, men, women, men. then the french who listen to me will say, "yes, so what?" and before i worked on this report, i would have been the first to say, "yes, so what?" because in france, alternating lists are the norm, the law. all our elections are held by alternating lists and no one from all sides of the political spectrum questions this because it ensures an almost equal representation of both genders in the electoral functions. and frankly, i never thought that claiming alternate lists would make me a simone de beauvoir. well, on the contrary. when the subject came up in the negotiations, some shouted at the scandal. so, in the end, the alternate lists are mentioned in this report, but only as a guide, as a possibility. and it is a pity that this is not compulsory, because it would have allowed the proportion of female meps to be rebalanced in relation to the proportion of male meps. and this is in the knowledge that 21 out of 27 countries send more meps than female meps here in this chamber, and that some countries have no women elected to the european parliament. so i must confess that i have a question: the committee on constitutional affairs in which we negotiated this report is the least equal in the european parliament. am i wrong to think that there is a connection with the fact that the alternate lists have been the subject of so much controversy? i am tempted to believe that if our assembly had been parity-based, the alternating lists would have been obvious.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is an attack on our constitution and the federal constitutional court, which has already rejected such a blocking clause in 2011 and 2014. the federal constitutional court is the last german institution, besides the hsv and rheinmetall, which still enjoys a certain degree of respect among the population. and now groko haram wants to abuse eu law to bypass the german supreme court and seize the mandates of seven smaller parties? how can you convince poland and hungary of the beauty of our eu law if you are abusing it here to lower democratic standards? wait a minute, that would even please viktor orbán and the polish pis party. i take back the last sentence. i urge you not to introduce unconstitutional legislation here. we are not in bavaria. smiley, please.
mr president, this electoral law is a bad electoral law because, instead of reinforcing democracy, it puts the citizens further away from their representatives. this is a bad law because it will create two kinds of meps: the ones that feel themselves europeans and the others that will be the locals. and this is unacceptable to a parliament. this idea of transnational lists has nothing to do with lead candidates, as we see when we read the piece of legislation, because we have lead candidates in all our countries and we don’t have nationwide constituencies. this is not a federalist idea, it’s anti-federalist, because i don’t know any federation where there is a federal constituency. not the united states, not in switzerland. and i am not going to say that they are anti-american or they cannot represent the united states because they are elected in texas or they are elected in nevada. this is something that we should bear in our minds: that we should be closer to the citizens. that is the most important principle of democracy. and transnational lists break this principle. that is the reason why i’m very pro-european, mr verhofstadt, and i cannot accept that someone says that those who are against transnational lists are not pro-european or are not federalist. it’s quite the opposite: it’s those who want devolution and to be close to the citizens who are against this electoral law. it is a bad project and i hope it will not be approved. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card answer. – but if you look at all the systems, you have the lead candidate without any constituency. i see my prime minister was elected in at least one constituency and mr boris johnson was in a very local constituency. and this was not a problem. why do you need a european-wide constituency? and second, let me say, i am a federalist and i want europe to be a federation, and that’s the reason why i am against transnational lists, because they are not a federal instrument. they are a centralisation instrument. this is not by chance. it is normally the meps from the big countries that are in favour of that because they know that their rate will be much higher. and it’s in representing also the small and medium sized countries that i’m here defending this position. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card answer. – in fact, you cannot complain because the president of the commission is german now. but let me tell you something that is very clear. i always defended that the european parties were on the ballots, in the ballot papers at home, across all europe. now, with this system and, by the way, i defend the direct election of the president of the commission, that will be a different system but it would be much more democratic than the transnational lists. and, you know, i have a fear with transnational lists, because imagine in italy, an italian on the socialist list, but not an italian in the epp or the greens list, and this will create a nationalistic debate about the transnational lists and it will be counterproductive. and that is something that you should bear in mind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens are demanding a stronger europe, one that will tax the big multinationals and speculative finance, that will stop the climate catastrophe, that will guarantee security and protection against threats to health, but also against the new spectre of war. in all these fields, the challenges to be faced are increasingly transnational. to strengthen the link between the territories and global dynamics, it is therefore essential to be able to vote directly for the candidate for president of the european commission, presented by each of the political parties on a transnational pan-european list of 28 meps. in this way, we are strengthening the european dimension of elections, together with the possibility for member states to allow 16-year-olds to vote, as well as strengthening gender equality. we have to vote on this reform. in this way we can build a stronger european democracy together.
mr president, i thank mrs jourová for saying what she said on behalf of the commission. i want to thank you. of course domènec and all my colleagues know how much i salute them and their work. but i would like to thank the commission because you said at the start of the conference on the future of europe that you made respect for what was going to be proposed by the european citizens the condition for continuing our work. and you did indeed recall that, at the conference on the future of europe, the question of transnational lists - but if we come back to that, my dear paulo - the question of making europe more democratic was indeed raised and was left out of the working group on democracy. so we're going to debate it. and, dear paulo, do not be afraid, do not be afraid, of democracy, of the fact that citizens can speak, can vote, can consider themselves europeans! what a horror! people consider themselves french, spanish, portuguese, but also european and they will have the opportunity to say so democratically in a ballot box. and yes, europe is not a state, so let's not look for complicated comparisons. but i will take a very simple one: who knows just the name already the spitzenkandidat in portugal? who voted for mr weber in portugal? who voted for mr timmermans? no one, and yet they want to make him president of the commission! well, you won't. democracy wants us to emerge from 27 national elections and to add to them a european election to democratically choose the future of the european union. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' speech)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. mr president, i must say that i have already spoken, but i like this debate because it is a parliamentary debate. for the first time i see a parliamentary debate here, and that is very good. i just want to ask pascal durand a question. isn't the united states a democracy? is switzerland not a democracy? do we need to create this artificial figure of transnational lists to have a representation, a real democracy in europe? is that the problem with europe? i don't think he did.
the answer is 'blue card'. paulo, i repeat, europe is not a state. europe is a democratic construction sui generis and we need to create a european body, a european citizenship, to share. we have values, we have an extremely rich, extremely important european history. she's got millennials. we have to create that body and we can do it through elections. and what we don't have and what the united states does have, are trans-state parties because yes, you vote in texas, you vote in california, but you vote for the representative of the united states state. so that's what we want to do, and we're going to do it together. i'm sure we will. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by mr glinne)
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i have a question. i appreciate the way he's pleading. it is indeed a lively debate, so to speak, but my question is: do you not think, mr durand, that we should have had european citizenship approved first and then lists, european constituencies? because he's stuck at the council. why don't we have it now? that's what i was told when i came in, that's what i was told in my country: you're going to be a romanian citizen, but you're also going to be a european citizen. and here's the board blocking this. and that is why, in spain, for example, romanian citizens cannot acquire spanish citizenship and keep their citizenship. if she was a european citizen, everything would be solved.
the answer is 'blue card'. so, if i understand correctly, the question is: why is there no european citizenship in addition to national situations? that is, why not have a european passport in addition to identity cards? why can't we have citizens of texas and california who are also american citizens? well, i agree with your proposal 100%. and yes, i am in favour of having a european passport and i am in favour of keeping national identity cards.
mr president, can we not learn from history and the present? the war in ukraine, which affects us all, this inextricable energy crisis, the warnings in the ipcc report that show the absurdity of thinking of solutions within the limits of nation states, is the sixth of nine global limits that have just been crossed and our common living conditions are seriously endangered. but this european democracy remains immature, incoherent, without european representatives directly elected by all citizens. the heads of government and the media of the member states talk only about national politics and, not surprisingly, voters are largely ignorant of the evolution of laws which have an impact on their lives and which are sometimes decided without them, although many of us here, as has just been proved, are trying to keep a european debate alive. and the feeling of belonging to this european space is not intensifying, nor is the confidence in a common destiny, nor is the adherence to a federating project. the proposal from parliament is 28 members on the transnational lists, which is too few, but it is indispensable. if this parliament once again chooses competition between peoples and a narrow vision of european citizenship, we risk losing decades of declining rights and freedoms or the ravages of climate change.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, for years this parliament has advocated globalisation without limits, preferring the global to the local and favouring the interests of the big groups against the expectations of the citizens. all the free trade agreements have been signed. all the ultra-liberal policies have been deployed. so congratulations, because today is the day of reckoning. because of these harmful choices, plastic pollution has become the most visible consequence of this disastrous globalization. we know that the environment cannot absorb this plastic and we know that it has an unacceptable impact on animal life, especially aquatic life. plastic carries substances that are extremely toxic to the human body, we know, but persistent organic pollutants are also present in our daily lives. the first priority is therefore to alert our citizens to these major risks. but when the commission finally decides to act, the solutions proposed are, as always, rushed, without any consultation with the actors on the ground. experts, such as woodworkers, warn us against some of your solutions and deplore the lack of consultation. we're talking to professionals, not your idols like greta thunberg. so we know that for you ecology can only be punitive and federalist. but the one we are proposing is localist and nationalist. you have turned the environment into a private club that applauded the most anti-national and hysterical proposals. meanwhile, the most concerned citizens never see the action of the european union, except to sabotage their work and punish them.
in writing. long before the covid-19 pandemic, the world was facing a global learning crisis caused by difficult access to education due to poverty, absurd and harmful standards for girls, and insufficient schooling. according to unicef, 617 million children and adolescents worldwide do not have a minimum level of proficiency in reading and mathematics. the numbers are chilling! this situation was aggravated by the pandemic and the sudden closure of schools, which deprived millions of children of education. in fact, dropping out of school often opens the door to all kinds of abuse. in france, more than 80,000 children are victims of violence every year. two children are killed every week in their own families and more than 300 000 children are taken care of by child welfare (ase). 70% of the children placed will not obtain any diploma. as several studies have shown, education and social trajectory are closely linked. so let us recognize that a society which does not care for its children is a society which is mortgaging its future and which can only perish, and let us react quickly, without ideological whims.
mr president, the blue economy represents a large segment of our economy, it affects industries and sectors. i think that this opinion of my colleague, mrs isabel carvalhais, is very timely and i congratulate her on it, because it complements the part of the commission communication where little was said about fisheries and aquaculture. i think it is important, and in the last decade we have seen significant steps taken to modernise and diversify these sectors, including the more traditional ones. but it is certainly important to understand that within this broad blue economy segment, some sectors can sometimes cause conflict with others, and this must be corrected. so i think there are many opportunities in this own-initiative report to look at a more sustainable blue economy. i regret that the media on social media have only talked about trawling. this report is much broader, much more comprehensive, and i do not want it to be clouded by a fight against trawling. i think this is a big mistake.
mr president, i thank mrs carvalhais for this excellent report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the term 'commercial'. today, the vast majority of marine protected areas are in fact very little or no protected and are subject to bottom trawling and other destructive fishing techniques. bottom trawling, which involves scraping the ocean floor, is one of the fishing techniques that scientists say has the greatest impact on the seabed. let's call for a ban on bottom trawling in european marine protected areas for biodiversity, for the climate and for the future of fishermen. this is a coherent demand and a strong political signal ahead of the publication of the action plan for the protection of marine ecosystems by the european commission. but this demand is bothering some lobbyists. attempts to suppress or dilute it are not up to the challenge. let us listen to the citizens, the young people, the scientists and the iucn. so i ask my colleagues to vote tomorrow for the oceans by banning bottom trawling in all marine protected areas.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to welcome your speech, to welcome your government's commitment to europe and your contribution to the european debate. your action has come, in a way, to close a period of far too long in which some european politicians have wrongly looked at italy with a hint of condescension, sometimes indifference. this may have been one of the reasons for the delay in the european aid to italy at the time of the pandemic. fortunately, this house and so many others reacted in time, with force, so that europe would live up to the expectations of the italian people. the vaccine and the recovery plan, of which italy is the first beneficiary, are in a way the realization of this, mr prime minister. i had the opportunity to say this in rome not long ago: yes, italy still needs europe, but europe still needs italy, its ideas and its talents. italy is no stranger to the new european consensus which is being formed among the heads of state and government and our institutions, and which the european parliament fully endorses. yes, we do not all agree on everything, especially on the tools, but we do agree on the objectives, such as carbon neutrality, strategic autonomy and the fight against inequalities. in this new consensus, my political group would like to have your vision. everyone agrees on the need to renew our budgetary and economic convergence framework. we know that we need to invest more in ecological planning, more in innovation, more in the strategic autonomy of our continent. what do you think is the best way to achieve this european solution on the reforms of the stability pact? you mentioned a number of ways, but the method will be essential in the coming months and weeks. a new consensus has also emerged on european solidarity. since the war in ukraine, the best interests of europe and peace have been at the heart of the actions of most of our european governments. we realise, mr prime minister, the political courage it took for your government to question national positions that are decades old. on these issues you have not only made statements but also acted, and despite attempts to manipulate the italian media by russia, you have held out and on behalf of my group, at any rate, you have all our congratulations. finally, we would like to know whether, as part of the sixth sanctions package, you will support the embargo on all russian hydrocarbons and whether you think that an agreement is possible in the next few days or weeks in the council. a final word perhaps on the conference on the future of europe, mr president, which is very dear to us in this plenary session, which is devoted in particular to important institutional discussions and which will shape our whole european construction in the coming years. i heard in your speech and understood that we can count on italy to defend the institutional reforms that citizens expect. i am thinking in particular of the end of unanimity in foreign policy, and you have been very clear on this - and a number of your colleagues should be too. but perhaps go further in a number of proposals, i am thinking in particular of parliament's right of initiative on transnational lists, which will also be important elements for our house and our institution, mr prime minister. finally, mr president, the elections in france and slovenia last week have again shown that we are in a european moment. the populists no longer even dare to say that they are leaving the european union, which is a good thing, it is a victory, including ideological, in the period. europeans are disqualified at the moment from finding solutions, but their simplistic ideas continue and may, in any case, continue to thrive on economic and social despair. we therefore need reforms, concrete solutions and a new green, more prosperous, social and democratic european era, and we hope that you and italy will be able to support this momentum. the renew group will be with you in these endeavours.
for the greens/efa group madam president, we are indeed here again to discuss these article 7 procedures. the situation in the chamber is still somewhat the same, with the council's notable absence, which is indeed a great sadness and a cause for concern. in recent years, there has been a tendency to say that the culture of the rule of law has finally developed and that we talk about the rule of law as much as we talk about the economy. we can see in two hours that this is still not the case, since the council was very present in the economic debate. this resolution, and we have made others in this parliament, will certainly not be the last, but we do need to continue to make resolutions because this article 7 procedure is still not being seriously considered by the council, nor is the role of parliament, which is the one that initiated the procedure with regard to the situation in hungary. but it is also the real and serious impacts on the lives of many hungarians and poles that are not taken seriously today, as they have been left to their own devices. these are people who continue to be called european citizens, but who may legitimately feel a little left out. the european union has also lost its positive and credible image in hungary and poland, because in recent months, in hungary in particular, false information and caricatures about europe have grown massively and we are not taking action. the legislator has, however, devised a procedure, namely article 7. many professors of european law defend and trust this procedure, and yet those who have it at their disposal, those politicians who can use it, do not do so sufficiently. the importance of this procedure must be stressed. it is necessary to reiterate how useful, necessary and complementary each tool is. infringement procedures initiated by the commission are needed. a recent study has shown that the commission is not doing enough here either, that it is still too cautious, but it is doing something. the financial conditionality mechanism is indeed needed, particularly in relation to hungary, since european money is very badly used in hungary. when you look at the level of corruption, it's massive amounts of money that are being misused. and then there is this article 7 procedure, which is a basis because there would be no triggering of conditionality mechanisms if there had not been, at some point, a documented agreement between us that there was a departure from the rule of law. so, we needed this job. this procedure is now in the hands of the council. it's a procedure that has a lot of guarantees, so there's no problem. it's hard to judge your peers, but you can't say things are rushed, and it's in the collective interest. it is simply a tool which is too often used not in a logical way but in the form of political negotiations at each stage, depending on the goodwill of the presidency. depending on what happens at that time politically, things stop, there is no regular hearing, it is particularly unstable. we have not had a hearing from poland under the french presidency. we'll get one from hungary, and that's a good thing. we will then need recommendations which will be worked out during the czech presidency. we will then need to vote on these recommendations during the swedish presidency. we must stick to this agenda, otherwise we will once again be abandoning the hungarian and polish people to their fate. and i would like to remind you of two things. firstly, in the article 7 procedure we are in the mechanism of prevention, not of sanction. so we're at the very beginning of the process and already we haven't been able to do that. and i would like to remind everyone here in the council and the commission that in 2024 it is in principle hungary that will hold the presidency of the european union. is it not a little strange to find yourself under the presidency of a state that we all consider to be no longer fully a democracy?
member of the commission. – i am at the situation where co—legislators are forming their position. it depends what you and your colleagues here at the european parliament will agree. i have heard also loud voices that 40% is not enough and we should raise our ambitions. also i am dependent on what the council will tell us and then we are starting the trilogues. i do believe that renewables are a smart way to lessen our dependence on imports. renewable gases are also a wonderful tool in the hands of our farmers, for example, because we do have lots of residues that could be taken into good use and used to produce biogas. so this is one tempting way to provide our farmers also with alternative revenues – by using their production and replacing with that the imports. but of course, the targets that we set are individual, so every member state will have its unique target based on their starting position. there are some member states who do have a better starting position than others. we do prioritise, for example, the vast potential that offshore wind provides us, and you can expect that by the end of this month we will also come out with a permitting proposal, so that permitting of offshore and mainland wind and other installations could be done faster than it has been so far.
member of the commission. – indeed, in europe, we do have in place a strategic oil stock or oil reserve that serves 90 days consumption. and we don’t have this kind of obligation for gas because underground gas storage has to meet some specific geological conditions. usually depleted gas fields are used for storage. and that means that we do have several member states which don’t have their own underground gas storage. to give also them necessary protection, we have put in place regional gas coordination groups so that the contingency plans are designed in a way that we take into account interconnections, lng terminals, possible means to use reverse flows and of course underground gas storage. last month we proposed the gas storage obligation and i am really grateful –i see you there, professor buzek – i am grateful that you are taking the fastest procedure that you can and will tackle the underground storage now as a strategic infrastructure. and in the longer run, last december we proposed the gas decarbonisation package that guides us to decarbonise our gas market and many member states have already achieved the situation where natural gas represents a very small share in their energy mix.
member of the commission. – it is important to make the distinction that our proposal on gas storage is not a proposal to create strategic gas storage that markets cannot use during heating season. so this is not a copy of the strategic oil stock, which is impossible to release unless there is a specific position among international energy agency members to do so. our proposal on gas storage is seasonal storage. this means that before the heating season starts, before the withdrawal season starts, we do have this additional buffer that complements the flows via pipelines or lng terminals. by creating this seasonal storage, we are not creating additional demand this very summer where we do have to meet the deficit situation. your first question was: will we finance underground storage sites? there have been some member states proposing underground storage sites and we will see the full list of what member states are proposing when we will complete the repowereu projects list.
member of the commission. – the first part of the question of why we don’t have a 100% renewable scenario comes from our treaty and the treaty says that member states do have the sovereign right to choose their energy mix. and we know that we do have member states who are committed to becoming climate-neutral, with the help of nuclear. and this is the sovereign right of the member states. now, on the part of the citizens’ empowerment, we have met bilaterally several times, and i fully agree with you that we should give citizens the feeling of ownership – because this actually accelerates our green transition if they do feel that they make a difference. and coming from estonia, i do truly believe that digitalisation is the key. so, there are lots of actions already taking place on the ground and we do have good partners at the entso-e or different associations that unite our energy market participants who are promoting this. but, of course, in big markets, it takes more time than in small markets, but this is a necessary way forward. now, the question that there was a deadline on one proposal already last year, i will reach out again. i don’t have an answer ready for that for you right now.
member of the commission. – (start of speech off mic)... based on our annual working plan and, of course, we are in 2022, well, this is all about extraordinary measures but you can expect that in september we will have our digital energy action plan and by that time we have to do our utmost that everything that is already agreed will be also taken into account. and then, of course, digitalisation is key to empowering small producers who also make a great difference if there are millions of them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the recovery fund has been the ambitious and united response of a european union that has been put to the test by the pandemic. we have thus tackled a crisis which could not be tackled by the member states individually, but we are now facing another pandemic, namely the energy crisis, which requires a similar response. safer and more accessible renewable energy sources will help to solve environmental, climate change and security problems, to reduce costs for households and businesses, and to achieve energy independence from third countries. we would also avoid indirectly contributing to the financing of russia's military campaign in ukraine with the proceeds from the sale of its fossil fuels. so all of these goals are part of the repower eu strategy, but they require extraordinary time and resources, funds that not all countries have. i ask you why you are not putting forward a legislative proposal for an energy recovery fund funded by european funds? because then we would be working with ambition to solve the problems of the citizens.
member of the commission. – yes, indeed, we need significant investment in our energy sector in order to replace old solutions with new ones. in this regard, already the recovery plans that national governments presented to us were designed so that 37% of the funds were dedicated to climate-related expenditure. now the member states who do have plans in place and projects ready in the pipeline are willing to frontload those investments. this is a very necessary action from their side. you were asking why we are not adding something on top of the multiannual financial framework. well, right now we are mapping the investment needs, so this is the plan behind this repowereu project list, butt first, we need to know what the projects are that are not already covered by the recovery plans or are not on the pci list but are still very much needed. then, on top of that, of course, if we replace our imports, these homegrown renewables, then this is also a business case for our private sector. we cannot achieve these high targets without private investment, without our financial institutions stepping in and with the help of the private investors, but also with the eib, who announced that they will be a europe’s climate bank, we plan to accelerate this transition and we have to do that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return again and again to the energy recovery fund because we are convinced that it would contribute to investment in energy efficiency and above all in building the infrastructure needed to interconnect europe with regard to energy produced from renewable sources in order to create energy communities and other consumption systems. in italy, the superbonus of 110% was introduced, which was a very important step towards reviving the economy and ensuring the efficiency of private and state buildings. i would therefore ask you whether there is any possibility of giving priority to the introduction of this financial instrument in order to provide a concrete and immediate response.
member of the commission. – member states do have different financing available to give grants for the households which are starting renovation. well, there are different eu funds already that can finance this kind of activities. regional funds, the modernisation fund, recovery funds. and on top of that, the revenues that member states do receive through the ets scheme – and they were significantly higher than was predicted just a year ago – should also be dedicated to climate-related actions. so there are funds available. the commission at this very moment is in the situation where we have to manoeuvre in the framework of the negotiated and agreed financial budget. and we will do so. we will indicate the resources that are there for the immediate need to solve this current challenge we face.
the last three speakers are off quota, so i would only allow one question each because we are also late. so next is mr carlos zorrinho.
madam president, commissioner, we are facing an emergency. the diagnosis is made, the path is laid out, the situational responses are being applied quickly and courageously. but the question i wanted to ask you is about structural responses, because structural responses are also of immediate need. the european commission has considered the iberian peninsula an energy island. the commission notes that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to achieve the objective of common interest. but i wanted to ask you a very specific question. what is done on the iberian peninsula will be the touchstone of the european commission's response to the structural question. you just said, let's bet on the electrical interconnections first, the others take a long time, but there has to be an exceptional procedure. we can't put our arms down. what is the exceptional procedure for the third connection of the iberian peninsula to the european energy market?
member of the commission. – well, indeed, portugal and spain have proposed a temporary, targeted solution for their energy market. their ministers were in brussels last week to discuss the challenges and impact to the internal electricity market. we gave them support, but also clear guidance on what are the necessary requirements this measure has to meet. this is a temporary measure. i can only repeat what i told your colleagues earlier today that i do prioritise the interconnections, electricity interconnections and a better integrated electricity market will help us to accommodate more renewables. and as a result, consumers will have more hours where they can receive electricity at affordable prices. this is already the situation in europe right now. the market zones where renewables are representing a bigger share of the electricity mix, there consumers do have more affordable price levels and this is also a result of the eu projects that help these markets to be interconnected. so the iberian peninsula has been lagging behind in this process, but there are interconnections that are already decided and financed by the eu [inaudible], for example, and this for sure shouldn’t be the last one. so this is work ongoing. i think that is very important to say that we didn’t start our energy transition on the day when russia started war against ukraine. no. major proposals were already tabled by the commission last year, and the year before that and we built from the experience from the first previous commission. so we were relatively well prepared and we are continuing our work.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for being with us. you are probably completely tired after two hours of heavy discussion, but it’s a very important discussion. let me say, last month we voted in this house almost unanimously a full ban of russian fossil fuels. and now the main responsibility in this house is the security of gas supply for our citizens, for our small and medium businesses. and as a matter of fact, we discussed the issue all the time – two hours almost, and we mentioned, which is very important, a simplified permission procedure for renewables – absolutely crucial for us, and also some infrastructure projects like interconnectors, maybe spain, germany, also bulgaria and greece, important, we feel it. but my question is on lng terminals, because we need three or four of them to feel really secure. how do you see that – in the netherlands, maybe, in germany? so how do you see this possibility – within a repowereu proposal, maybe?
member of the commission. – professor buzek, thank you so much for your moral support. and, well, we are taking your guidance very seriously day and night. we are also working towards getting rid of our dependence and this doesn’t happen overnight. but work is really ongoing. so i have dedicated a lot of my time to reach out to the alternative suppliers so that we can attract more lng shipments to europe. well, this is also a global competition. you remember last autumn, it was china which was willing to pay significantly higher premiums than our market and now we have to secure alternative supplies. on lng terminals, there are several already under construction. i know that one will be opened today in greece. there are several governments which have announced and informed us that they have signed contracts to bring their floating lng terminals to their coast. so this is a faster option that might help already during the next year and a half – and we are mapping these needs. but it is clear that we cannot replace russian gas 100% with alternative gas supplies. we do have pipelines in place. all the other gas producers have informed us that they are doing their utmost to increase production. we do have commitments. the most prominent one was from the united states that they will deliver, on top of the record volumes already we received, on top of that, 15 billion cubic meters this year. but this doesn’t cover 100% of russian gas. so, with efficiency savings, renewables, all the other alternatives, without them, we will not get rid of russian gas 100%.
madam president, commissioner, there is a popular saying in france that when it is unclear, there is a wolf. i have just heard one of our colleagues, mr roos, say that the risk for the european union is renewable energy, because it is renewable energy that is condemning us to remain locked in russian gas. commissioner, there are blunders like this that are absolutely criminal. i would like you to say no, that renewable energy is the way to combat our dependence on russian gas, to protect the climate and also to guarantee peace. and i think that needs to be said absolutely clearly. my question now is in the same vein, finally, as mr buzek's, although not quite along the same lines. in our discussions with your services, we were told that, in the estimates, we did not need new gas infrastructure for the european union. and this is what the ipcc is calling us to do for the climate, telling us that not only do we have to stop building gas infrastructure, but we should also shut it down before it has reached its return on investment. commissioner, can you confirm that no, the european union will not support the construction of new gas infrastructure?
member of the commission. – well you were the co-rapporteur so we just concluded the agreement on the proposal. indeed, if there will be a pipeline that transports molecules, it has to be hydrogen- ready. but right now, we are also mapping other possible bottlenecks that member states need to replace gas flows from russia. most of these do arrive by a pipeline with alternative sources. they have to do it very fast so we don’t have years to replace it with renewables. so what can we do from our side? we can shorten the permitting so that new renewable installations are not taking decades, are not taking seven years, but a significantly shorter timeframe. and then to avoid very severe consequences this winter, we have mapped the needs to coordinate the gas infrastructure activities in the way that we are taking best care of existing infrastructure. if there is something that we have to deliver in this regard, then we will find out. according to my best knowledge, we are well prepared to act in solidarity mode so that member states can also help these countries which are landlocked, via reverse flow via the pipeline that is already built there and operational.
thank you very much, commissioner simson. thank you colleagues. question hour is finished and i think it was very informative, so it’s a good test.
the next item is the debate on the follow-up to the conference on the future of europe (2022/2648 (rsp)). i would point out that, with the exception of the first two rows, which are reserved for the group chairmen, there is free choice of seats. you can use your voting machine to request spontaneous messages and to insert blue cards after you have inserted your voting card. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. this does not apply to spontaneous speeches, blue cards and statements on the rules of procedure.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, naturally we must consider the conference on the future of europe to have been a great success. it was and it will be, because the conference does not end here. it has to have a follow-up, it has to have what we call in english a follow-up. first of all, it must be said that we have managed to carry out this exercise of democratic participation with the active presence of citizens, with a pandemic that almost killed the conference and with a war now in its final phase. this was a test of the resilience, the democratic resilience of the european union. it is true that most of the citizens' panels produced recommendations which i would say are very encouraging, many of which need, of course, the input of the national parliaments, of the european institutions, but which are clearly in line with an advance in european integration. i think that is a clear balance sheet and i would even say here that it has given us real impetus to progress in the process of european integration in health, security and defence, democracy and the rule of law, climate change, the digital economy. it is also clear that we are seeing a value attached to participatory democracy, but a desire to strengthen representative democracy at all levels. this is a clear message from the citizens and this is a clear message from the institutions and national parliaments as well as from other partners: the social partners, the economic and social council, the committee of the regions. they all give this very positive message. i therefore believe that the natural solution to this conference is to convene a convention to review the treaties. there are many matters which do not require a revision of the treaties, but there are others which are decisive for the future of the union and which require a revision of the treaties. parliament must therefore propose to the other institutions, and in particular to the council, a convention which can deal with these questions raised by the citizens, which can frame them and which can end with a treaty on union which can prepare it for the next ten years. the pandemic on the one hand and the moment in kiev on the other show that those who decided to go ahead with the conference were right. the conference has been confirmed by history. it is now up to us to rise to these challenges.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam chair, i’m very grateful for this debate on the follow-up of the conference, because i think, in fact, that we cannot allow this conference, after one year of work, after this innovation, of the involvement of the citizens, and with the publication of a beautiful document – that is then classified vertically, i should say. that is also what the co-chair, dubravka šuica, and myself said at the end of the conference. therefore, i think that what we as parliament need to do is to keep the lead in this and to see where the conclusions of the conference can be implemented immediately, as we already did today with the vote on the transnational lists. let’s remember that. because let’s be honest, it was a recommendation of the citizens and it was a conclusion of the conference. let’s not forget it! but ok, ok, we will not redo the vote from a few moments ago, but we need to do that on every topic and there are a number of topics that require treaty change. when you talk about the health union, to make it a shared competence, you need the treaty change. that was also in the recommendation of the citizens. when you want a real energy union, you need a change of the treaties – because an energy union, we don’t have one. we have not one energy mix that is decided at european level and we don’t have a common purchase of energy decided at european level. so therefore, we also need a change. when you want to end unanimity in a lot of areas, you need to change. when you want to give the right of initiative to the european parliament, you need a change. so, i think it’s obvious that the only way to be true to the conclusions of the conference is to call for a convention – a convention, article 48, a convention in which we are going to say exactly what articles need to change and how they need to be changed. i hope that, if parliament votes in favour of this with a big majority tomorrow, then on 9 may, there will also be a positive response from the council, and that we can go in the direction that is absolutely key and needed: a real union, capable of acting and not always acting too little too late, as has been the case until now. so i hope anyway for a big majority in the house, for the follow-up, the approval of the results of the conference and the goal of the convention, article 48.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, mr president verhofstadt, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i note that the final proposals adopted by the executive bureau have eliminated more than two thirds of the proposals from the citizens' panels, which could increase citizens' distrust and alienation towards the european union, after all the promises that have been made. the conference was a priority of emmanuel macron's eu presidency, but it has failed on several levels. the organisation, in the opinion of all, was somewhat chaotic, there was a lack of participatory dynamics - it should be remembered that there were less than 53 000 european citizens registered on the digital platform - many citizens from the panels were disappointed by the format in the absence of direct dialogue with the members, and the members themselves were dissatisfied due to a very short speaking time. first of all, i am naturally in favour of participatory democracy in terms of giving citizens a greater role, but not in this context. the identity and democracy group had conditioned its support for the cofe on the following ideas: that all political forces be represented, that conclusions not be written in advance and that, if there is a change in the treaty, it be submitted to a referendum. it is clear that the contract was not fulfilled. we cannot accept the existence of multiple conflicts of interest between citizens drawn by lot or recommendations which in reality come from certain political groups or ngos. there is also the cost of this great european mass, which is estimated at over €200 million. we are in the midst of a crisis of purchasing power, we must remember that. the timing was not right - in the midst of a pandemic - and more importantly, to be implemented, several recommendations will require treaty amendments, which would lead to conflicts with the european commission, which has said that it is not willing to take such measures. this is why many recommendations have been dropped. we can, however, support certain proposals, such as a more protective data processing policy or digital sovereignty. on the other hand, other proposals are dangerous, such as the creation of a common army, even for self-defence. defence must remain a national prerogative. moreover, the citizens' panel itself found it difficult to justify the duplication with nato. i warned at the launch of this event that the results were known in advance, i.e. more federalism, more european integration and the end of the rule of unanimity in the council. this conference unfortunately ends in failure, and i can only regret that for our fellow european citizens, who will be the first to be disappointed.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, as strong believers in democracy, we are always open to new initiatives to engage the citizens. the conference on the future of europe was an interesting experiment; however, used to legitimise a predetermined outcome. the ideas on a digital platform barely used, the representatives of the national citizens panels, outspoken views in favour of eu integration. eight hundred randomly selected citizens, steered and guided by experts – experts appointed by the common secretariats who didn’t hide their own views. don’t take my word for it. ask professor david van reybrouck, a renowned expert on citizen participation. he called the conference ‘amateuristic and not representative’. looking at the recommendations, we see a federalist wish list, an excuse to trigger a convention, to transform the eu into a centralised federal union. transnational lists, a european migration policy, eu taxes, you name it. it’s all there. but based on what legitimate grounds? i appeal to you my colleagues, because i spoke to many of you during the conference from the left to the friends of the epp, even to colleagues from renew. you know, this conference has no legitimacy, and i know many of you think as i do. there is always a time and place to discuss the future of the eu; but this conference has failed. reject the conclusions and reject the call for a new european convention.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already made a number of proposals. 79 years after spinelli, the conference has delivered something here, namely for the first time, 20 years after the last major eu-wide debate, then on the charter of fundamental rights of the european union in a convention, it has delivered an answer to the question: how do we want to live together in this european union in the future? and i remember our debate here a year and a half or two years ago, when we said that everything must be put to the test: let us find out why so many citizens across all 27 eu member states are frustrated, disappointed by the here and there, by political solutions to their daily problems. the left has always said that the eu must be social and democratic or it will not stand in history. and i think that the answers i have in the final document - 48 pages - give a clear answer. the citizens expect concrete social change guy verhofstadt spoke of the energy union and the health union. and the young ambassador of the health working group, nicolas moravek, said that when the phone rang and the question came in, whether he would be willing to participate in such a conference, he thought it was fake news. and i believe that we have a responsibility now as the european parliament to put this result into practice in a follow-up process, and for that we need the convention. i would urge all members who have followed this conference seriously to sit down and say: let us make something of it, we will remain the guarantor of the success of this conference! let's make the whole complex of participatory, representative democracy work!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as we were debating the future of europe, ukraine had to defend its future after the russian invasion in a devastating war. you all understand that ukraine is fighting to defend its self-determination. the right to exist and to freely decide on one's future is a guiding principle of international law. many countries in the european union have ratified the international covenant on civil and political rights, which places the right of peoples to self-determination at the forefront. at cofe, many european citizens called for these rights to be protected and strengthened in the europe of tomorrow. but the europe of the past blocked his way and prevented the right to self-determination of european nations such as catalonia, the basque country, corsica or flanders from being included in the conclusions of the conference. this is a way of disappointing the millions of europeans who, moreover, speak in languages, such as mine, which are still banned in this parliament.
i am glad that the commission has taken this initiative, and i am glad that the commission has taken this initiative. i have had the honour of chairing the working group on a stronger economy, social justice and employment, and its conclusions, with citizens' recommendations at the centre, are very clear. citizens want a shift towards a more inclusive, more resilient, more sustainable european union, where digital and green transition is possible, but with a social dimension. as part of a renewed social contract, the proposals focus on reforming the european union to improve people's wellbeing and human progress, without depleting resources or destroying our planet. ladies and gentlemen, it is time to strengthen this union and to turn proposals into reality. it is time to establish a real social europe. citizens demand stronger rights for children and youth, decent wages, minimum incomes, strengthened social dialogue and collective bargaining, affordable housing, day care centres and gender equality. companies should never have been allowed to exploit economic freedom by undermining social protection. and that is why the european pillar of social rights must be legally binding and be incorporated into the treaties together with the protocol on social progress. it's time to see the faces of the people behind the numbers. we need to reform our tax rules taking into account the impact of covid and the ecological and digital transitions. we also need to ensure that we have the necessary resources to do so. the next generation eu has been an important step, but it is also time to move in other directions. finally, we must put an end to the tyranny of unanimity in the council. this weakens our ability to respond quickly on a global level. it undermines our basic democratic principles and the rule of law, as well as our fight against tax evasion. the conference on the future of europe was a landmark event. we have managed to involve the public to express their opinion on the future. let us not let the discussions now be purely institutional, because that says little to the citizens. let me be clear. changes to the treaties or to a convention cannot be seen as an end in themselves, but are important and necessary tools for improving people's lives. let's not let them down. let's work together to show them that this process has been worthwhile.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are not going to let the outcome of the conference on the future of europe be belittled. it is encouraging: 325 concrete proposals for a more responsive, digital, social, independent, forward-looking and stronger european union. the proposals are a setback for all of us who want to change the european union for the better: yes to ending the undemocratic principle of unanimity. yes to liberal democracy. no to blackmail and blockade. yes to the european parliament's right of initiative. yes to the budgetary authority. yes to transnational lists. the european union is not a party to the treaty. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union is a political union. yes to greater cooperation between the citizens of europe. we are willing to make the future our future. and i want to be very clear: this is about implementation; the work is not done. the european parliament will be the resolute, transparent advocate of all 325 proposals. the european parliament will take the initiative for a convention on the necessary treaty reforms. the european parliament will be transparent about what has happened with each proposal and when. the people can understand that we will keep our word.
madam president, we have the right to be happy from time to time, we have the right in this house to be happy about certain opportunities that are offered to us. a year ago, when we opened the conference, we didn't know what was going to happen. let's be honest here. it was something new, it was a new democratic process. the commission said it would try to be a facilitator. the council was already on the brakes. and then parliament said 'let's do it!'. some of us were a little afraid to oppose representative democracy to participatory democracy. and then what do we find out a year later? we can see that not only was the terrible health crisis overcome through dialogue, debate and construction, but that another crisis has since come, that the war is in the heart of europe itself and that, nevertheless, citizens have ordered, commented and asked for more europe, more integration, more work. so, indeed, it has been said, and i do not need to elaborate further, and you have also said it in the context of the exchanges we have had: we must continue. we must transform this conference from the future into a conference of the present with the convention, with our ability to change the texts. that's what we have to do now. the citizens are waiting for it. parliament is ready, the commission agrees. so let's go, let's move forward, let's all work together.
madam president, when we built this conference on the future of europe, there were a number of us in this parliament who insisted on strong citizen involvement. there were some reservations from parliamentarians who think that democracy is only representative, and above all, there was resistance in the council. however, as in all cases where a dialogue with citizens has been initiated in ireland, germany and france, these citizens' assemblies have been exemplary. the serious commitment of these europeans over the months, their quick grasp of the issues, their reasoned interventions, their ability to confront others to bring forward priority ideas, their determination also to make themselves heard, all this has been positive and shows that a healthy democracy in the 21st century requires the active participation of citizens between elections, in certain processes of reflection or legislative work. this is the guarantee of a renewed interest in democracy in society. and when we consider the disinterest of many in what is happening at eu level, through ignorance or sometimes because of misinformation from their governments, this connection with some citizens was all the more important. so now we must draw inspiration from this example to continue to develop moments of living european democracy, in the possible follow-up to this conference or for other relevant topics on our european agenda.
madam vice president, please. we must say that the future of europe conference series has failed. it's not democratic, it's not pluralist. and the way they've pushed through the federalist visions of opinion leaders that weaken national powers is not legitimate. statistics show that the majority of european citizens were not interested in this very expensive project, because in such trying times, thinking about the future of europe should not be about transnational lists or the abolition of unanimity in the council. national events and opinions, such as in hungary, that did not meet the pre-determined conclusions were simply deleted from the digital platforms. if national parliaments indicated that there was no consensus on the most important issues, they avoided these opinions. in the closing debates, the conservatives and the independents in the ep were not allowed to speak. this is a show of intolerant hegemony of opinion, not common free thought. therefore, we cannot accept his methods or his conclusions. we still believe in the pluralism of opinion and freedom.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the moment of truth for europe has arrived. with this resolution, after approving today the transnational lists for the forthcoming elections, the european parliament is implementing the citizens' demands made at the conference on the future of europe. we are launching a convention on treaty reform. anyone who says it's not a priority is wrong. it is a fundamental step towards achieving concrete objectives such as the defence union, the integration of the protocol on social progress into the treaties, the health union, the overcoming of the right of veto and the deepening of integration in a federal sense for those who can and want to, but at the same time to continue enlargement from a confederation around the federation, as proposed by our democratic party secretary, enrico letta, to give a european perspective of peace and security in a short time to the countries of our neighbourhood such as ukraine. today mario draghi has traced this path with pragmatism and idealism together. we need a new constituent phase for the peoples of europe, and never more than now is the wise man's maxim "to make europe or not to make it, there is no trying". we move on and we won't regret it. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' speech)
blue-card reply. – yes. i think the transnational lists will be a good opportunity for all of us. it’s not true that they will put us far from our voters. instead, we can be really able to europeanise elections and to not talk only about our national priorities, but also looking from the campaign already to the next mandate, to priorities and what we will fight for. i think it’s a very good improvement. it will be a good change for a european union that will be more and more united and able to offer european parties with a real system where our heads of the lists can be our spitzenkandidaten to lead our fight for a more political and so stronger european commission. so, yes, i could run for that.
madam president, madam vice-president, the conference on the future of europe has been held. yes, it's true, there were doubts, challenges, difficulties. but today, the result is here, with 325 solid proposals that are the fruit of a unique exercise of participatory democracy, led in particular by the president of the french republic, emmanuel macron. what the citizens have asked us for is more europe and better europe. it is the end of unanimity and the veto in the council and it is a stronger europe. it is a more humane europe through culture and education. at a time when our values are under attack, when i see in my own country, france, parties of the right and the far left and even environmentalists wanting to destabilise europe by calling into question the primacy of european law, we must listen to what the citizens have told us. the future of europe is today. we owe it to our citizens, to our young people who have committed themselves massively. thanks to the determination of guy verhofstadt, the european parliament has taken a stand for these proposals and i hope that it will reaffirm this by voting this follow-up resolution. it is now the duty of the commission and the council to make this new europe a reality, to act for it by opening an article 48 convention, as we are asking for.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the war in ukraine has been an eye-opener. in our relations with russia, there is a before and after of february 24, the date of the russian military aggression. until vladimir putin has withdrawn his troops from ukraine and stopped threatening the security of europe, we cannot go on as before, we cannot pretend that nothing has happened. when i say 'we', i mean first of all our european institutions and, above all, our parliament, for which we are directly responsible. i would like to thank our president, roberta metsola, who has made a strong commitment to strengthening the cybersecurity of our assembly. it is time to move on: cyberattacks are relentlessly targeting us, but the effort is there and it must be encouraged. having said that, i would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular to the chairmen of our political groups: we must take the security of our institution much more seriously. at a time when we are calling for stronger sanctions against russia and for aid to ukraine, is it normal that russian double nationals linked to the current government are working in this parliament? is it reasonable to discuss confidential matters online without knowing who is online? how can we hope to exercise better control over such important issues as european defence without first strengthening our security culture? we can no longer ignore this subject. strengthening our security means strengthening our credibility, our efficiency and our ability to monitor the work of the council and the commission. it is the business of each of us, but it is high time that we grasp the subject and understand that it is no longer a question of doing as we have always done, because we really have not done enough.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, madam president of the european commission, for the last two months the horror of war has been striking our continent. this conflict, so close to our doorstep, touches our consciences and reminds us of our duty of solidarity in the face of the atrocities and war crimes suffered by the ukrainian people. but it also affects each of us, each of the peoples of europe, by the violence of its economic collateral consequences. inflation is back all over europe, and it is hitting the poorest first, who are seeing the prices of basic necessities rise. feeding, warming, and moving around become increasingly stressful for many. this war is first and foremost a question of our dependence on imported fossil fuels as well as on food and agricultural products grown ever further away from home. this war reminds us of the oldest lesson in history: sovereignty is the price of freedom. it is therefore crucial to strengthen our energy independence by continuing to strengthen our nuclear sector, the cleanest and most decarbonised energy available to our societies today, by refusing to give in to the pressure of the greens who want to return our societies to the economic stone age by reopening coal-fired power stations. we must also recover our food sovereignty by ending absolute free trade and developing fair trade, short-circuiting and localist, localist trade. the protection of our agricultural supply chains requires an end to the commission's insane strategy of 'farm to fork', which is leading our farmers to hardship and ruin. the exceptional situation we are in calls for urgent measures in the short term to improve the purchasing power of our citizens. we must reduce taxes on fuel, as poland did in february. we want to do this in france, where taxes represent almost 60% of the price at the pump, and we must also be willing to admit that at this moment the energy sanctions imposed by europe have weakened our purchasing power while enriching russia. the ruble has been at an all-time high for two years and the war profiteers are getting richer and richer by exporting raw materials. the car manufacturer renault was forced to sell its shares in the russian lada brand for a symbolic ruble. so it was an institute under putin that acquired it. this is a strange sanction which leads to the scuttling of a french company and finally to the russian government's free nationalisation. in conclusion, we have no power to decide where the oil and gas fields are located. we can decide to protect our own while punishing those who profit from war and aspiring to regain independence tomorrow. the principle is simple: sanctions must continue to target putin, the russian regime and its decision-makers, not the european people's wallets or the activities of our companies. i beg you to think of them.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, every day we send 800 million euros to putin through our oil, gas and coal purchases. that $800 million is enough to feed his soldiers and refuel his tanks. as long as we continue, the horrors will not stop. so yes, we must suffocate this war economy, not fuel it. but commissioner, it is an illusion to believe that europeans will come out of this unscathed if there is no solidarity with those who will be most affected. i am convinced that this is the condition for going further. so we have to share the costs of this war for our households and for our businesses. if we impose sanctions as europeans, we must also bear the consequences as europeans. but that is not all: it is one thing to heal wounds, it is another to anticipate problems so that they do not arise. so, ladies and gentlemen, let us step back, would we have been as much at the mercy of vladimir putin if we had made the necessary investments eight years ago, when ukraine was cut off from crimea? wouldn't history have been completely different today if we had gotten out of our dependence on russian hydrocarbons and even hydrocarbons altogether? yes, there have been strategic mistakes that have been made in recent years. i'm sure you do. this invasion and its aftermath must therefore be sounded as the ultimate warning. so i would like to reiterate my conviction and ours: we must create safe, a fund for our strategic autonomy in europe, a fund designed to get rid of our dependencies by the end of the decade: hydrocarbons, agricultural inputs, critical industries, defence too, of course. it is our responsibility to finally assert ourselves, to finally take our destiny into our own hands. we have been elected, ladies and gentlemen, to make europe a union which protects: the present times require it.
mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as ukraine faces the worst hour in its history, europe must be and remain in solidarity with this people who have been attacked. to face and cure its own ills, europe and its member states must also strengthen their internal and social solidarity. we must prevent vladimir putin's war from creating social chaos in the european union, because europeans are facing increased energy poverty and inflation. the right to housing and the right to food must be guaranteed. we can afford it, let's mobilize the funds to live. the crisis we are going through must lead the union to confront and evolve its social policies in order to protect the most vulnerable. we must act together to counter the impact of conflict on social inequalities, employment and poverty. it is urgent that we stop delaying the social construction of europe. i therefore call on the french presidency and the council to show ambition on the draft directive on minimum wages currently under negotiation. and i say, the minimum wage must guarantee decent living conditions for all workers. it also calls for a common minimum income initiative aimed at eradicating poverty. this war puts us, after covid, after years of precariousness, in front of an even more glaring social emergency. our europe, our union, must respond by concretely strengthening its social policies.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. madam president, commissioner, mr president, madam minister, i would like to talk to you about fisheries. in a few words, i will simply say that the european fisheries control agency has a vital role to play in achieving the objectives we have set ourselves here, namely the objectives of the common fisheries policy. the aim is to ensure that fishing activities are economically, socially and environmentally sustainable in the long term. there was brexit, there was the pandemic. and despite all this and the difficult operational conditions, the agency has managed to adapt. you should be congratulated. it has been able to ensure the continuity of its missions - coordination, fisheries control, monitoring of inspection missions of suspicious vessels in european waters - in order to implement our policy, as i said. i also want to commend the work carried out by this agency, since in 2020 it chaired the tripartite cooperation with frontex and the european maritime safety agency. this is a good example of synergy between our agencies, and perhaps we could consider a single european maritime agency in the future.
madam president, i have a minute to talk about billions of euros being thrown out of the windows of brussels. that's a lot of money for a second! here everyone is happy with the good management of the commission and its agencies. the european medicines agency has a budget of 370 million euros, and 84% of its revenue comes from big pharma, should we congratulate it? the commission has self-managed the purchase of vaccines and has reserved 4 billion doses of covid vaccines via sms. today, the number of doses waiting for injection is estimated at 2 billion. how many of them are already outdated? these doses would be predominantly pfizer doses. that's a waste of at least 240 million doses. this waste is a 77 percent increase in pfizer's revenue. stocks are exploding: 12 billion were made in 2021 and are expected to double by 2022. estonia, lithuania, latvia and poland are warning of these forced over-orders and want to suspend these orders from the commission. when will this nonsense on the backs of european taxpayers end? when will there be an audit of these commission orders? and when do we have a conflict of interest investigation?
madam president, a word to go back to the discharge of the frontex agency, because we can see that this procedure is likely to be exploited by all those who would like to prevent the agency from carrying out its mission. its mission is not to control the member states, but to help them, especially in dealing with illegal immigration, which we can see is likely to endanger the very balance of our countries. today we are being asked to postpone the discharge of the frontex agency on the basis of an olaf investigation, which we do not have, which we have not been able to read, and we see that this postponement of discharge will only serve this political process, which is being carried out against the agency, against its teams, against its management. we at frontex are here to reiterate our confidence. we reiterate that nothing must undermine the mandate given to it, including the attacks which sometimes come from within the european commission itself. we believe in this mandate, we believe in its mission, and that is why it seems to us fundamental to refuse that this discharge process be politically instrumentalised today.
madam president, i would like to refer to the rules of procedure, please, on the basis of rule 123, which governs access to the european parliament. a few hours ago, a conference on islamophobia was held in parliament, on the initiative of the cojep association, in the presence of mr élias d'imzalène, who is allegedly being tracked and followed in france for islamist radicalisation. i would like to know how this association was able to bring this individual within a few steps of the chamber and with the probable approval of the bureau of the parliament.
mr president, the pegasus case is a double humiliation for the europeans. first, it shows how easy it is for governments to spy on the digital lives of thousands of individuals. despite the recurrent speeches on resilience to cyberattacks or on strengthening the european cyber-surveillance framework, which remain only at the stage of speeches, whistleblowers, political leaders, journalists or big business see their ideas stolen by foreign powers, thus undermining any possibility for europeans to develop their digital, scientific, diplomatic or economic strategy. secondly, the pegasus case exposes the european hypocrisy in terms of digital sovereignty. where was the european union when the nsa tapped into danish telecommunications cables to spy on politicians in germany, sweden, norway and france? far from remaining cautious, we gave, a few years later, access to our european gaia-x club, a so-called sovereign club, to palantir or google, financed by and working with the same american intelligence. is it the fate of europe to always welcome trojan horses? i don't think he is. while i am glad to see our institution finally standing up against these unfair methods of spying, it would be good if european countries were offended by the attitude of their allies or by some of the harmful provisions they themselves put in place which make us vulnerable. neglecting europe's digital sovereignty means killing any hope of being part of the concert of the great powers. the subject is therefore crucial and even vital for our continent.
mr president, commissioner, we used to think of pegasus as the stallion next to the greek heroes, a symbol of courage. today, the winged horse is more like the trojan horse. devious, shameful, pegasus infiltrating our phones, our parliament, our democratic lives. tools like pegasus are designed for very specific and regulated purposes, such as counter-terrorism. there is absolutely no justification for spying on people who pose no threat to national security in hungary, spain or poland. this new reality, where everyone has to live in fear that their privacy can be spied on at any time, where politicians and journalists have to keep silent for fear of being persecuted for their opinions, where human rights defenders have to think first of defending themselves, is a dystopian reality. the light must be shed on those responsible, on the governments which have played a role in such profound violations of the fundamental rights of our fellow citizens, of our colleagues. it is clearly not the future but the present of our democracy that is at stake. let pegasus once again become the hero of our imagination, not the enemy of our democracy and our freedoms.
mr president, has deeply invasive surveillance become the new normal? depuis les révélations de juillet 2021, le feuilleton de la surveillance généralisée semble avoir plus de retournements de situation, de suspenses improbables et de complots qu’une très mauvaise série à rebondissements. résumons. les gouvernements européens, et pas seulement en pologne et en hongrie, surveillent leurs opposants politiques, les activistes et les journalistes de leur pays. ces gouvernements sont eux-mêmes surveillés par des gouvernements souvent autoritaires, hors de l’union européenne, qui surveillent en même temps les opposants, les activistes et les journalistes, dans nos pays comme dans les leurs. alors, quand on est politique, activiste et/ou journaliste, doit-on considérer cela normal d’être surveillé constamment? comme la grenouille dans l’eau qui devient bouillante, sommes-nous en train de nous habituer à être espionnés et tracés continuellement dans nos vies quotidiennes? à travers l’europe, des technologies de surveillance intrusives s’infiltrent dans tous les aspects de nos vies. normaliser cette surveillance, c’est pourtant abandonner notre droit à la vie privée, à la dignité, à la liberté. des droits fondamentaux!
mr. president, pegasus, born from the womb of medusa, this multi-headed monster, was born thanks to perseus. was it prescient, because what a beautiful breakthrough in our phones and in our lives: spied on, monitored, no privacy, for the pleasure of a few who wish to control. control our ideas, our commitments, our directions. so, a year ago, the pegasus scandal broke thanks to the associations and journalists, who were the ones who raised the alarm. for the past year, as we all know, it has been a global scandal. however, no sanctions were taken. everybody's offended, everybody's looking at their phone wondering. that is why i am pleased that the european parliament has set up a committee of inquiry. pegasus, the weapon of choice for repressive governments to put pressure on journalists, political opponents and human rights activists. but pegasus is only the result of the madness of these rulers and their obsession to devastate our democracies. i would also like to express my full support for my colleagues who have had their fundamental rights violated. they say walls have ears. they're the walls. so kisses to the nsa: here and now, we say stop these practices.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the life sentence of osman kavala is painful for him and his family, for democracy in turkey, for relations between turkey and the european union, because these are false accusations. the political interference of the government, public statements, government promotions of personalities involved in the case, the initiation of disciplinary investigations against the same turkish judges who had previously acquitted kavala, weigh like a rock. this is part of a worrying pattern. we are now seeing a widespread political use of criminal justice against government opponents. it is even more worrying to note the complete indifference of the turkish government to the rulings of the european convention on human rights, which not only highlights the unfoundedness of the accusations against kavala, but which requires the government to immediately end the violation of his human, civil and political rights. the turkish government has not yet taken any action to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to exercise their right to freedom of movement. that is why we must keep our mobilization and attention high. we have done well to discuss this motion in parliament and to vote with a large majority and to urge the commission to take all the necessary steps, including a further appeal to the turkish government to put an immediate end to this injustice.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr erdoğan thinks he is strong. he believes that he is immune to our criticism, protests and pressure, because he believes that russia's aggression against ukraine has made his country an ally, without which neither the european union nor the united states could or should in any case do without. he is not wrong, but what he does not see is that we are aware of his inner difficulties. the situation of the turkish economy is such and next year's elections are going to be so difficult for mr erdoğan that he needs us much more than we need him. this man cannot be locked in a one-on-one with russia, let alone break with the atlantic alliance. so let us not fear him and let us make it clear that he will pay dearly for the life sentence of an innocent man whom our parliament welcomes, applauds and will defend.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, was the trial of osman kavala and his co—defendants the last chance for justice in turkey? we know that there are so many victims of the repressive regime in turkey, but the case of osman kavala is one of the most unjust of all. this businessperson and human rights advocate was sentenced to life imprisonment with no chance of release. but since the very first day he was imprisoned four and a half years ago, there have never been any grounds for his detention. he is perceived as a threat by the authoritarian regime. acquitted then charged again, he has never left prison. they just decided to persecute him. his seven colleagues have also been sentenced to eighteen years in prison. they represent a patchwork of turkish society: lawyers, publishers, architects, academics, filmmakers, journalists, civil rights defenders. only the impression that these people could possibly be one day, dissidents, was enough to seal their fate. osman kavala and his colleagues have been branded enemies of the state and unlawfully imprisoned for trying to build a more civil, just society in a country where respect for fundamental rights continues to deteriorate.
mr president, the conviction of osman kavala to life prison is the outrageous conclusion of a blatant case of persecution of political dissidents under the guise of a legal criminal prosecution. i express my full solidarity and call for his immediate release. sadly, he is far from an isolated case in turkey, where the oppression of political opposition is an everyday occurrence. yet the eu treats turkey as an ally and constantly looks the other way. some member states in particular have a very cosy relationship, and the war in ukraine is an excuse for turkey to win even more prominence. this must stop! geo—strategic interests cannot take precedence over basic human rights, which in the end are what give us strength and courage to face up to authoritarian regimes.
mr president, allow me to also support the motion for a resolution that my colleagues have drawn up. it is precisely the issue that falls into this category of current human rights protection, and i also want to support mr osman kaval, who has become a victim of turkish justice in a fabricated process. and it is right that we pass a resolution condemning this. but this particular case should have political consequences as well. this case should affect our dealings with turkey. the commission should take this case into account in its negotiations with turkey, reduce the aid we are giving to turkey. the erdogan regime is getting into a bigger and bigger crisis, into a bigger and bigger isolation. with elections coming up soon, erdogan is already using this as a way to crush his potential rivals and opponents. and we should respond to this, and i emphasize the words that have come from the lips of my colleagues here: turkey is moving away from the rule of law, and thus away from the european union.
mr president, the dictatorial regime imposed by mr erdoğan in turkey has just been exposed by the monstrous sentence handed down to mr osman kavala, an exorbitant sentence: life imprisonment. mr kavala is a person committed to democracy and human rights. by ignoring the decisions of the european court of human rights, which had asked for his release, despite the total absence of charges, this condemnation shows that turkey has reached a very serious point of dictatorial drift. there are thousands of political prisoners in turkey. parliamentarians, including many kurds, mayors of many cities in kurdistan, are being persecuted, imprisoned, stripped of their democratic mandate. for several weeks now, the turkish army has been conducting military operations in iraq. it is doing the same in syrian kurdistan. mr erdoğan does not respect international law or the european court of human rights. mr. erdogan is like vladimir putin. vladimir putin said: "all ukrainians are nazis". all kurds are terrorists, mr erdoğan said. it is the same discourse, it is the same drift, and it is the same danger for europe. we must win mr kavala's release by putting the full weight of the european union on it. we must decide on economic and diplomatic sanctions against this dictatorship.
mr president, commissioner, osman kavala reminds us once again that turkey is a state which systematically violates human rights and ignores the judgments of the strasbourg court, and this is not a new precedent. in the case of demirtas, the chairman of the pro-kurdish party, turkey has already refused to comply with the european court of human rights' resolution ordering his release. so how can we keep erdogan's turkey as a candidate country for european membership? we need the union to maintain a firm position in the face of the unbridled repression against activists like kavala, the democratic opposition and the kurdish national minority. the union is now a passive accomplice. sanctions must be imposed on those responsible for this repression. and finally, the turkish government admitted that the spanish precedents of persecuting basque and catalan politicians served as examples for it to do the same against turkish elected politicians and activists. brussels' inaction in the face of spanish repression against us is therefore the best alibi for authoritarian regimes like the turkish regime, which can continue to violate human rights.
mr president, turkey is a member of the council of europe, which binds turkey to the rulings of the european court of human rights. the european court, however, in a final decision asked for the release of kavala. but turkey not only refuses his release, but also sentences him to life imprisonment. similar rulings regarding the imprisonment of demirtaş, a political leader and also a human rights defender, is also treated by turkey with contempt. similarly, hundreds of rulings by the same european court regarding the citizens of cyprus of greek descent, whose fundamental rights are violated by the turkish state – turkey refuses to implement. the heavy arm of erdoğan’s repressive regime extends particularly on the turkish cypriot community as well. recently, just a few days ago, the ankara penal court condemned in absentia to a one—year imprisonment the editor şener levent, following the publication of a cartoon in his turkish cypriot newspaper ‘avrupa’. similar persecution against şener elcil, another human rights defender in turkey in the turkish cypriot community. finally, i’m going to ask a question: can we have a democracy in a country where the judiciary is an instrument of the government? the answer should be ‘yes’ or ‘no’.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the parliament, in the current challenging times we are living through, protecting and upholding universal values, in particular human rights, is more important than ever. on 25 april, istanbul’s 13th high criminal court issued a deeply regrettable verdict in the case of osman kavala and seven other defendants. the verdict passed by the istanbul criminal court totally ignores the findings of the european court of human rights’ decision of december 2019 and sends a chilling warning about the shrinking space for civil society in turkey. as a consequence, the council of europe started an infringement procedure that is still ongoing and the high representative issued a statement following the verdict, calling once again for mr kavala’s release. this court verdict and the trial, flawed with many irregularities, are further worrying signs of turkey’s further backsliding in the area of fundamental rights. the heavy politicisation of this trial is deeply troubling. it exemplifies once again the systematic lack of independence of the turkish judiciary. the council has repeatedly stated that the targeting of human rights defenders runs counter to turkey’s obligation to respect democracy and the rule of law. this tragic outcome is not only a domestic turkish issue. this is about turkey’s international obligations and about the core values of the european union, which turkey aspires to join. we continuously bring up the issue of the rule of law and human rights in conversations with turkish officials at all levels and will continue to do so. it is a cornerstone of eu—turkey relations. turkey needs to make concrete and sustained progress in the respect of fundamental rights. as a long—standing member of the council of europe, it must implement the decisions of the european court of human rights as legal obligations. turkey is no exception. so we will continue to strongly raise the issue of the rule of law and human rights in our dialogue with turkey.
- a writer. mr president, i speak regularly about china and the great human rights problem in the country. today we're talking about a specific scandal: the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. this organ harvesting has resulted in many deaths. the chinatribunal concluded several years ago that the involvement of the chinese government in organ harvesting is beyond question. the victims of these atrocities are mainly followers of the falun gong movement. this debate and the resolution that accompanies it are therefore very much needed. we can't look away any longer. firstly, the european union and its member states must do everything possible to ensure that china puts an end to these absurd violations of human rights and, moreover, to encourage the country to respond to the many questions and testimonies about these crimes. if the chinese government has nothing to hide, it can respond and condemn these practices in the strongest terms. the medical sectors of the member states should not be involved in this organ harvesting. to this end, cooperation with the chinese medical sector in the field of transplantation medicine must be monitored very closely. we must also protect our citizens from fraudulent organ transplants. in london, a law was recently passed banning travel abroad for commercial organ transplants. let the member states follow this excellent example.
author. madam president, madam commissioner, each year in the world there are more than 10 000 illegal organ transplants, generating a profit of €1 billion per year. in china, the low rate of voluntary donors, the authorisation of non-consensual organ harvesting and the lack of transparent mechanisms to ensure the traceability and origin of these organs, which are required by who, are all damning evidence of chinese practices in forced organ harvesting. on several occasions, un human rights experts have expressed concern about forced organ harvesting in china and called on the chinese government to comply with the requirements of the who and its conventions against torture, which china has signed. all these questions have remained unanswered so far. and in 2021, the independent international tribunal on forced organ harvesting in china concluded that in china, practices of forced organ harvesting have occurred, continue to occur, and particularly on communities, such as falun gong. it should be recalled that forced organ harvesting is a serious violation of human rights. it is also worth recalling that the eu-china relationship must be based on respect for these values and the international conventions to which we are parties. we therefore call on china to respect the requirements of the who and the convention against torture. we also call for the establishment of monitoring of these organ harvesting practices by independent international experts, and for the abolition of the law allowing the harvesting of organs from executed prisoners without their consent. we call on the european union and the member states to publicly condemn these practices, to take measures to prevent organ tourism, but also to ensure that our research and transplant institutions do not cooperate with chinese bodies that may be carrying out these forced transplants.
author. – madam president, dear colleagues, in europe, you have to wait a very long time for an organ donation, but in china you are helped within a couple of weeks. how is that possible? a real sign of progress, an ignorant observer would say, but it seems that china is harvesting the organs of prisoners, notably from falun gong, and that on a significant scale. we all hoped that these kinds of atrocities would be a dark memory of the past, but more than 70 years after the second world war, a leading country is committing crimes that amount to crimes against humanity and getting away with it. it gets away with it because the international community is closing its eyes. with this resolution, the parliament makes clear that it will no longer tolerate this. a united parliament will make the difference. we have initiated sanctions before and have put the investment agreement in the freezer. we will not move an inch unless china proves us wrong on human rights. we call on china to respond to the allegations, to allow a very important and independent investigation and to increase transparency and traceability in organ procurement. the ball is now in china’s court.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. forced organ harvesting is a vicious violation of human rights. such organ harvesting has been done in china in large numbers in the past. and even today, there are indications that china is not strictly following the who guidelines on transplant medicine. therefore, un experts have expressed concern that china continues to be accused of such forced organ harvesting, especially of executed prisoners. i have no facts to prove that this has actually happened since 2015. a who expert who has visited various hospitals in china that practice transplantation medicine said that he has found no evidence of this, but cannot rule out that it still exists. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that is why we are appealing to the chinese authorities to demand clarity, transparency and an end to any such practice, even in remote areas where no one is looking. i think we have to make it very clear that china has to draw a reliable border.
author. madam president, persistent reports of organ harvesting in china are a reminder that organ trafficking is not unique to war-torn or organised crime areas. they also falsely identify themselves with the "rose allegiance" cleverly orchestrated by the middle kingdom, via a considerable investment in its external propaganda. the country probably has the worst record on the use of the death penalty, which is not very transparent. organ harvesting from prisoners, too often carried out without the consent of the persons concerned, is symptomatic of the indifference to human dignity within the chinese prison system. religious minorities are at the forefront of these abuses. and while the uighurs' plight is regularly denounced in the media, the plight of christians is, in this case, hardly more enviable. beyond the fear that these practices inspire, we must collectively take responsibility. the measures introduced in canada, spain and italy against medical tourism in the field of transplantation must be pioneering in order to finally eradicate this particularly sordid form of human trafficking.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the totalitarian apparatus of the chinese communist party (ccp) continues to suppress and destroy human freedom and dignity. in the case of organ harvesting, as with forced labour, they even profit from their crimes against humanity. let me thank the independent tribunal into forced organ harvesting for their important work. it is thanks to their efforts that the evidence and truth is today undisputed and indisputable. today, the ccp is using forced organ harvesting to target dissidents to their regime, ethnic, religious or other minorities, such as the uyghurs, tibetans, muslims, christians, political prisoners, or falun gong practitioners. it is part of the widespread system of oppression in china. nobody in china is safe. for too long we remained silent about the ccp’s wide—scale crimes. today, it’s time for the international criminal court (icc) to investigate these crimes, and for us to do all in our power to stop this abhorrent business and hold the ccp responsible for all its crimes against humanity.
the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the halal organs. the first time i heard this phrase from the mouth of a uighur doctor forced to participate in forced organ harvesting from gunmen, i didn't understand. he said, "rich gulf customers want halal organs". they are then taken from the muslim deportees. it's the law of supply and demand. that was in 2020. i asked him to repeat that phrase ten times, because the horror seemed so unthinkable. and yet, the testimonies, the investigations, they point to a system of organ trafficking. the forced removal targeted first falun gong, then prisoners of conscience, and now the uighurs are the victims. everything is bought and sold in the country of the chinese communist party. the buyers would come from north america, the middle east and europe. this crime against humanity must be brought to light. we therefore demand full transparency from the chinese authorities. we demand an end to transplant tourism, a re-evaluation of all hospital cooperation with chinese institutions and sanctions against those responsible for this traffic. in the face of such crimes, everyone must choose his side. mine will always be the prisoners of conscience and the uyghur deportees.
madam president, madam commissioner, it is beyond reasonable doubt that in china forced organ harvesting from prisoners of conscience has been practised – this is the conclusion of the china tribunal – from persons not clinically dead, according to a recent study by the australian national university. the targets are well known – falun gong, tibetans, muslims, christians and uyghurs. people treated like livestock, subjected to compulsory health checks, just to be sure their organs can be harvested. dear colleagues, this is the one of the worst atrocities committed in modern times and without a doubt an outstanding crime against humanity. despite our helplessness in affecting beijing policies, as seen yet again at the recent eu—china summit, we can’t stop trying to use all our pressure to finally achieve some concrete steps. for this reason, i call for a full and transparent international investigation to shed light on these appalling violations, as well as for additional strong, targeted sanctions for those who are responsible for that. we need to use all means at our disposal, including commercial tools, so that beijing faces up to its responsibilities. more than anything, as eu representatives and even more as human beings, we need to keep being the voice of those who do not have one – loudly denouncing a situation which is just unacceptable. because if we don’t do that, no one will.
madam president, the reports that we are seeing that china is suspected of enlisting surgeons to remove organs from living prisoners are extremely concerning. the details included in the report are particularly harrowing, with findings suggesting that physicians participated in executions by organ removal. it does not seem to be a coincidence that such practices target minority groups such as the falun gong, the uyghurs, tibetans and others, and form part of the wider persecution of marginalised groups in the country. china’s alleged organ transplant system clearly does not adhere to the international norms set down by the world health organization. yet the chinese government has repeatedly failed to clarify sources of excess organs. concerns particularly centre around detention camps where minority groups are often held. the numbers do not stack up and questions are mounting. china must explain why they are doing far more transplants than they have cadaver organ donors.
madam president, the synopsis of this thriller would be about crime, the black market, trafficking, supply and demand, shortages and organs. the main actors would be brokers of a very particular kind, political prisoners, cynical rich foreigners, the chinese state, members of the uighur and tibetan minorities. wait, don't bring out the popcorn and the cold drinks right away, this isn't a new show, nor the latest box office thriller. it's the reality. it's in our world and it's happening today. one shocking figure contains the full reality and scale of organ trafficking in china. in 2000, china was reporting 10,000 donors for 60,000 to 90,000 transplants a year. so many more transplants than donors, how is that possible? the average time to receive organ donations is mysteriously only a few days or weeks, while in the west it is several years. europe, together with the un, must step up its fight against organ trafficking and continue to put pressure on beijing to go much further than the official ban. these horrible and unworthy practices must stop. let's not look away. we are already accountants because we know today.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, cambodia has a special link with our continent. it is probably the country in south-east asia which has retained the most relations, especially with france. it would therefore be quite normal for the european union to have good relations with phnom penh. however, the european union is still refusing to maintain these correct relations with cambodia, while once again having a policy of double standards. in vietnam, our neighbour, we have a free trade agreement, so there is no problem. fundamental rights are much less advanced than in cambodia and i dare not even speak about the conditions of the elections. but on the other hand, in cambodia, sanctions are imposed, in vietnam, a free trade agreement is signed. once again, two weights, two measures. of course, cambodia has a good chance of demonstrating the double standards of the european union in this matter. one may even wonder whether a section of the european left is not trying to erase its past friendship for the khmer rouge by attacking cambodia. cambodia faces real challenges, including the normalisation of the relationship between the state and opposition parties. we will not support his progress by imposing sanctions. moreover, although the un human rights committee issued a periodic report critical of the country last march, it is clear that at least it is working with the country's political power: national plan against violence against women, campaign to improve access to administrative identity, continuation of trials against the khmer rouge, reform of juvenile justice, establishment of a committee against torture. the human rights situation in cambodia is not perfect, but at least reforms are on track. let us try to encourage them instead of blaming them and once again, in this region as elsewhere, to be in a policy of two points, two measures.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the european union has long left france alone in the sahel. this abandonment was a strategic absurdity and as mr gahler said - for once i agree with him - this debate should have happened a long time ago. while french soldiers died fighting islamism in the sahel and neighboring countries, brussels for years looked the other way. as usual, the excuses were always found: the aim was to promote integrated european action, not to favour france, but to promote nato's ambitions. it is not surprising that france has finally grown tired of this generous mission, which it carried out in almost complete isolation, even though in recent years, let us be honest, there has been a minority european participation. tomorrow, the french people will be tired of being the only one to accept compromises to establish the idea of strategic autonomy in europe, when others have already put their fate in the hands of nato. the junta in mali no longer wants france and its soldiers to take action. it's unfortunate, but it's his right. in five years, emmanuel macron's france will have reduced france's influence in africa, in the very countries where we had historical allies. this setback must also make us question the capacity of europeans to influence the african continent. as china, russia, turkey and the arab world increase their influence on the african continent and even in the sahel, europe, madam commissioner, is at a loss as to what to do. the repercussions of the war in ukraine on african economies will be terrible and i am happy, as i have just heard, that the new leader will be the wagner militias, but i think the destabilization of libya has been much more important in the fatal chain of events for africa. migration pressure, radicalisation against a background of impoverishment, the risk of famine, the european union today loses its instruments of influence when crises are imminent. yes, we need a new policy, but we need a new policy urgently.
mr president, commissioner, what happened in mali on 20 april is extremely serious. on that day, a fake social media account accused french soldiers from barkhane of committing a mass murder before leaving their base in gossi and based his accusation on the alleged discovery of a mass grave. a french drone, however, filmed a group of men burying bodies in gossi. among them, mercenaries from the wagner group. the dead bodies were used to stage a macabre act designed to discredit the actions of france as it left mali. a few days earlier, in moura, also in mali, the malian armed forces, aided by the wagner group, had massacred hundreds of civilians under the pretext of fighting jihadist groups. murdered civilians, mutilated corpses, that's what wagner in mali is. the european union cannot continue to train soldiers in mali who are used to commit such atrocities. if the malian junta chooses to associate with barbaric mercenaries, if it refuses independent investigations into the crimes committed, then we have nothing to do there. we will continue elsewhere, where we are welcome. the people of mali will one day, i am convinced, understand our choice.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, i want to thank you for this debate, and i also want to thank you for your support to our position not to abandon the sahelian region and countries. the eu definitely remains committed to support peace, security, democracy and development in west africa. actually, no other partner provides the same level of support as the european union does. and i fully agree with you when you mention that we need particularly to support the region now to address the food security challenges. i think it’s essential to recall that the eu is working in all these areas to try to support peace and stability alongside its national, regional and international partners: the economic community of west african states, the economic and monetary community of west africa, the g5 sahel, the coalition for the sahel, and the un along with its regional office and agencies. not only because coordination and multilateralism are key to ensure efficiency in our common responses, but also because we have to promote african—led solutions, enhance accountability, local initiatives, in order to help these countries to build their own future by facing the numerous challenges ahead. so thank you for your support, and thank you for this excellent discussion.
the debate was closed with six motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 5 may 2022.
before we move on to the next item on the agenda, i must inform you that georgios kyrtsos has left the epp group and will join the renew europe group with effect from 5 may 2022.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr andreas schwab, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on competition policy annual report 2021 (2021/2185 (ini)) (a90064/2022).
the rapporteur. mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the annual report on competition policy is always a good indicator of where europe stands in terms of the openness of its own markets and the competitiveness of its own economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is necessary to say at the outset that the ukraine crisis, the russian aggression against ukraine, economically and probably also in competition law and competition policy, is calling into question much of what we have taken for granted and is therefore raising many competition law and competition policy questions in the coming years. but this is something that affects many policy areas and that is why it may not deserve special attention here today. colleagues, the report is focusing on four major points that have to be addressed soon by the european commission. the first is and thats a bit the backwardlooking part of the report postcovid19 phasing out of specific pandemic support measures. secondly, achieving the green deal and digital transformation. here we have to look for recovery and the green deal to be combined. c, or third, the rise of ecommerce and the importance of large online platforms for competition rules. we've already discussed that in this committee with a lot of colleagues who are here today when addressing the key proposals of the digital market act. finally, as a fourth element, mergers and antitrust: how new digital markets require an update of the notice and the definition of relevant markets. colleagues, first i would like to stress that one of our priorities was to mention the necessity to phase out pandemic support measures step by step. i am a bit unhappy that today my group chairman has fallen ill because of covid. it will hopefully be very easy, but we still hope that it will go away completely and, at least in competition policy, we believe that we have to call for a phase out of the pandemic support measures. in this regard, the report highlights that the pandemic is ending and that we must return to market discipline. markets need to do their work again to deliver innovation, growth and more choice for consumers. moreover, colleagues, the european parliament affirmed the importance of having competition policy tools that are well adjusted and complement each other. they will facilitate the twin transition between green and digital and will guarantee a level playing field, price signals for innovation and fair economic conditions. in our report, together with my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, we assessed the crucial importance of a review of competition policy instruments in the light of then twin transition and covid pandemic. the planned revision of the general block exemption regulation was especially important. another key element we achieved in the report has been the reference to enforcement of the dma and dsa. we strongly pointed out that the commission's priority must be to ensure and enforce dsa and dma strongly, to show that europe delivers competitive markets, fairness and the rule of law on the internet. this is a very strong commitment that we share with all our colleagues. we therefore expect the commission to provide adequate resources, and we expect the member states to give the commission the money to allow for adequate resources in that respect. in this respect, i brought to the commission's attention the need to create more positions to face the growing portfolio of responsibilities since, for the first time, we are giving the commission a direct enforcement power for two harmonisation instruments. the letter that we have been addressing, together with shadows, to the french presidency is known by you. the other two elements which i mentioned at the beginning are as important as the last, and i shall come back to them after your comments. i am now looking forward to an open debate and i thank you for your attention.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i thank you, andreas schwab, as rapporteur, and the shadows for this comprehensive report that we are discussing today. i think it provides an excellent basis for the discussion that we are going to have. it identifies the main challenges and opportunities, and i welcome the very constructive and supportive tone. this annual debate is again taking place in the midst of a crisis. just as we were starting to get back to normal life after the pandemic – or the pausing of the pandemic – we were faced with unprecedented aggression, with an unprecedented attack on our democratic values – values i think we took for granted. they are now being tested. can we stand up for them? and can we mirror their brave countermeasures, as we see in ukraine? i’m glad that our reaction was swift. the sanctions that we imposed are effective, and they are effective because of the size and the strength of our economy. the effects of sanctions and counter-sanctions can only be cushioned by a well-functioning and resilient single market. that is part of our defence. this is why competition policy and enforcement play a key role. in the current context of prices going up, it’s hitting purchasing power hard in many families, especially, of course, those who are most vulnerable when it comes to their budgets. we need to make sure that markets remain competitive, to deliver affordable prices, and to make sure that no one takes an undue advantage. that work, of course, is never complete. there is no resting on any laurels when it comes to that. we must continue working to further strengthen the single market, to complete it, and to make sure that it’s working every day of the week. and we must make it future—oriented and ready for the green and digital transition. the draft report also recognises that eu competition policy and its vigorous enforcement play a crucial and instrumental role in this endeavour. i hear the calls of the parliament for an in-depth review of existing competition instruments, and we are acting on this call. recent challenges show that, overall, our rules remain relevant, useful, enabling, on a day—to—day basis. they serve us well and they can be swiftly adapted if necessary. i think the covid state aid temporary framework is a very good example of that ability to adapt. the framework has enabled member states to provide necessary and proportional support to businesses hit by the crisis. at the same time, the fact that we had rules, that we assessed what was going on, helped us maintain the level playing field in the single market. so far, within the framework of the covid temporary framework, the commission has approved a total amount of state aid – a budget, so to speak, of state aid – of almost eur 3.2 trillion. based on a survey covering from mid-march 2020 to june 2021, the actual spending was not the budget; the actual spending was almost eur 730 billion, but not in the size of trillions. i think that is really, really important to take note of because it also means that, while we had fears or concerns that we could have had a serious disturbance of the level playing field, that has actually not materialised because the survey results also show that no member state has disproportionately outspent another. now we are actively considering the progressive phase-out of this temporary framework – something that the parliament has called for, as was just mentioned by the rapporteur. the commission was also quick to put in place a temporary crisis framework in the context of the russian invasion of ukraine. to make sure that our tools are fit for purpose, we have engaged in an unprecedented review of 20 competition rules and guidelines across the three instruments: antitrust, mergers and state control. the recently adopted climate, environmental protection and energy aid guidelines are key enablers of the green transition. let me thank the parliament for its input in the run—up to these guidelines. let’s not forget the casework. a recent example is the council decision from last year, by which the commission imposed heavy fines on a number of carmakers who colluded to slow down the deployment of technical development potential to reduce car pollution levels. and, last but not least, competition also supports the digital transition. it keeps the power of dominant companies in check, especially through antitrust rules that prohibit the abuse of dominance. we have continued vigorously enforcing competition rules. you will know the ongoing cases that we have: a google case, a facebook case, three apple cases, two amazon cases – all high priority. last but not least, as parliament has pointed out several times, investigations take time. but now the enforcement has also shaped the content of the digital markets act, both on process and on substance. the digital markets act could not have been delivered so fast without the experience that we have accumulated over so many antitrust cases. i think the dma is proof that democracy works because, with the excellent work of parliament, here we are with a strong political agreement on this landmark proposal. last but not least, since we are in times of change, we have revised the state aid rules on important projects of common european interest. we can discuss that, of course, in greater detail. you know the many projects that we are about to approve. tomorrow, we will start the trilogues on the regulation on distortive foreign subsidies. i am really happy to see the speed at which parliament has been working and the engagement. with that engagement, of course, i also look forward to this debate.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, so, the rapporteur did excellent work and i think we have achieved our ambitions, with other shadow rapporteurs, to explain what parliament’s reflections on the legislative and enforcement developments are and also to communicate our priorities to the commission. last year was indeed a dense year for competition policy: we saw 1 000 state-aid decisions, 11 cartel decisions, 14 merger cases entering into phase two and eur 1.7 billion in fines imposed, also delivering the ambition to complement antitrust enforcement with competition policy through the dma (digital markets act). what we achieved actually with this report provides a path to the next chapter of the european economy by emphasising the importance of effectively assessing market power in digital ecosystems and calling for an inclusive and future-proof revision of the market definition notice – basically to translate offline to online and modernise our rules to meet the new digital challenges. we also highlighted social protection priorities, for example, on self-employed workers, offline and online again. furthermore, in this section we suggest and we call on the commission to conduct a market study also on online advertising technology or the practices that exist, and also to integrate privacy and data protection into the assessment of anti-competitive behaviour. parliament pays great attention against potential uneven level playing fields from different state-aid support strategies or tax policies that could be indirectly state aid. and we emphasised the need to consider the socioeconomic impact also of energy prices now. finally, the report touches upon the important issues of enforcement, calling for more resources at both national and european level, and also for closer cooperation of authorities and consumers in data protection law to break down the silos that we have identified. it basically builds on our commitment to reach consumer choice, safeguard the internal market and make our economy a fair, competitive and future-proof ecosystem. (the president cut off the speaker)
for the renew group. mr president, we have something very special together in the eu: our single market. this is probably our biggest success ever. it is the very foundation of our union that has lifted us up in many ways and given us a common voice and leverage on the global stage. so how did we create this success? among other things, with strong competition rules. rules that ensure that we trade with each other on equal and fair terms. our market is based on trust between countries. if we do not trust that companies compete on market terms, we also run the risk that countries will start to fight for their own and perhaps even close themselves off more. and then the dynamic that allows us to act freely across the eu to begin with, goes. our competition rules state that we can only grant state aid to companies in exceptional circumstances. for example, during the pandemic shutdowns, we did it in a big way, and it was necessary for us to preserve jobs and businesses in an extraordinarily difficult situation. but now that the shutdowns are over and most of the restrictions are also gone, it is of course also time to return to a more normal world, where it is not state aid but healthy competition that ensures development and growth. and if you do not love healthy competition for the sake of the single market, you should love it for the sake of the green transition. we are facing a huge transformation of our society, and there is simply not enough public money in the world to get us where we need to be. the commission itself says that we need €650 billion a year - on top of what we already spend - so we cannot simply rely on state aid. we need private capital here. we need private enterprises and healthy competition between them to ensure conversion and innovation.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mrs vestager, ladies and gentlemen, year after year this report on competition exposes the union's relinquishments on vital issues. what's not there is almost more important than what's there. the report seeks to address some essential points, but in vain, when some european states allow billions of dollars in state aid to multinational companies to flow into tax havens in the context of the covid crisis. is this not a betrayal of the competition rules in the face of the endless taxation of smes? and despite the warnings of environmentalists, when these same billions of dollars in state aid are used to support an energy model that cannot do without mr putin's goodwill, is that not contrary to the spirit of the european treaties and the building of the union's sovereignty? this week, it's 50 degrees in india and pakistan. we know that tomorrow the european territory will suffer a climate catastrophe. in fact, it's already started. let us remember the floods last summer in germany and belgium. so to accept that even a penny of state aid is still being used to invest in a fossil fuel based system, is that not an act in total opposition to the very reason for the existence of the union? will the union protect us and our children tomorrow by making renewable solutions less competitive? we could thus continue to list the renunciations on the map of the european states complicit in the climate catastrophe, pollution and tax predation. so i ask you solemnly to make competition policy a real lever for the transition. and for that, i give you an appointment next year with an extra hope of optimism.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of the house of representatives! i am pleased and i commend the rapporteur's work in maintaining the text we have discussed even in a war situation. i fully agree that eu competition policy must play a key role in maintaining the competitiveness of european companies and in creating jobs. the coronavirus pandemic has drastically exposed the fragility of our companies, with many european companies going bankrupt. many foreign companies took advantage of this and bought them with foreign subsidies. leaving this is a huge strategic mistake. while this is finally being remedied by a report adopted today, we need to take further action to protect our companies and increase their competitiveness. this requires innovative and flexible competition rules to adequately support european industry in achieving strategic autonomy. we must strive to facilitate the green transition, but we must do so along the lines of common sense. and let us take into account the different characteristics of the member states and in no way make decisions which would put some member states at a disadvantage. this should be considered when adopting new sanctions against russia. we should not hurt ourselves more than we hurt the aggressor. our strength lies in our unity and in the competitiveness of our companies. meps must work for this.
mr president, dear colleagues, as s&d imco shadow rapporteur, i will focus on the internal market and consumer protection aspects of this report. strengthening consumer rights both online and offline, contributing to the green deal objectives and sustainability policies, as well as strengthening the internal market by addressing unjustified geoblocking or territorial supply constraints are just some of the good examples in our work. we also find it very progressive that the report addresses the shortcoming in the internet of things market and touches upon foreign subsidies. at the same time, i also have to underline that the imco committee correctly pointed out several other important issues in its opinion, such as that competition policies can contribute to the energy union, but this does not mean to facilitate the creation of industrial giants. for us, it was also a key issue to tackle killer acquisitions and to highlight the role of the dma in this regard, but also to clearly state that merger control should be assessed by the rules of the merger regulation. finally, i also want to underline our suggestion that calls for further strengthening the role of the european consumer centres network. with all respect, i suggest that we should vote for this report and thank the two rapporteurs for their work.
mr president, madam vice-president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, after a global pandemic and in the midst of war on our continent, i want to recall something important which seems to be missing from the minds of some populists who would like to see a europe made to measure. our competition policy protects us and does protect our companies and our citizens. during the covid-19 crisis, the exceptional measures put in place have saved thousands of jobs and provided financial support to our businesses. with the war and the energy crisis, the new temporary framework for state aid once again provides massive support to counter rising energy prices. our competition policy is also the means of ensuring a level playing field in our single market. tomorrow, the gafa will no longer be able to impose their own rules, deciding who enters or leaves the market. tomorrow, companies that have been injected with public subsidies by certain third countries will no longer be able to compete unfairly with our european companies, or to buy our industrial gems with impunity. our competition policy will be a key tool to support all transitions and it is in this context that we must be able to make the european standards, which serve as a model for the rest of the world, even more effective.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, moldova made a key choice in 1994: it chose neutrality. this choice is the key to the development of this country. this is the choice of a country which must help us to maintain bridges between eastern and western europe. the great generosity of the moldovan people in welcoming ukrainian refugees is of course an honour for this country and deserves to be commended. it is quite natural, therefore, that the european nations should show solidarity with those who are taking in the victims of war. however, i am most concerned when i hear the comments of some of my colleagues. moldova is the fruit of a complex history of friendship and coexistence between the west and the russian world. anything that upsets that balance can become a danger to the area. it is the european union's great mistake to have followed all the american strategies and to have become dependent on nato. if we had built a real tool to support the independence of european nations, then perhaps we could be a regional stabilization player. unfortunately, that is not the case. this is not the case when the eastern partnership is used to align the beneficiary countries with western positions. this is not the case when we turn a blind eye to the practices of pro-european business circles, as was the case during the 2014 banking scandal in moldova. this is not the case when the european union openly interferes in the elections of a third country by identifying the good and the bad, as brussels did to support the election of maia sandu. the last european elections in my country showed that the french people are currently opposed to any further enlargement. the main political parties in this parliament have made this clear. it is not fair to deceive the moldovans by telling them that there will be unanimity in favour of a new rapid enlargement. i remember that we had exactly the same scenario in 2014, when a number of my colleagues went to maidan explaining that the ukrainians would be in europe the day after tomorrow. ten years later, we're looking at where we are. i therefore support the necessary aid to moldova, but i absolutely reject the use of that country by powers which want to drag a large part of europe into the chaos of a general confrontation. we must work for peace and dialogue, not seek to spread proxy wars that will not serve anyone on our continent.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in ukraine women are being tortured, raped and killed by putin's soldiers, sometimes in front of their children. these humiliations, these intolerable violence against women have one goal: to break the ukrainian nation. these methods have a name, they are weapons of war. but after fleeing their country, refugee women can be exploited and exposed to violence, even within the european union: pimps, marriage agencies, pornographic websites, etc. our duty is to welcome and protect these women immediately and unconditionally. i would like to commend the commitment of civil society which is creating solidarity networks to rescue, support and host ukrainian women. the european union must continue to support and finance this fieldwork. we must also ensure that the perpetrators are punished and that justice is done to the victims.
madam president, the situation of women affected by the war in ukraine must be of particular concern to us. in addition to material aid, we must provide them with psychological support to help them cope with the trials of war. many women had to leave their partners, most of them forced to stay on the territory of ukraine. they left with their children, their parents and sometimes their grandparents. others find themselves alone in a country that is not their own. we need to give them strong moral support. and so we hear every day that some of these women, and children, have been sexually abused. these war crimes cause profound trauma which requires urgent psychological and medical treatment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you are too ugly. we'll let you live so you can tell everyone. that's what putin's soldiers told a 17-year-old girl after raping her mother and 15-year-old sister in front of her for days and nights and beating them to death. why did her tormentors let her live to speak? because the systematic rape of ukrainian women is not just an act of barbarism, it is a strategy of terror. he is not only satisfying the abject urge of the warrior, he is war itself in the eyes of these fascists. for 20 years, the rape of women has been at the heart of putin's terror, starting in chechnya. humiliate, desecrate, defile the bodies of women to break the resistance of a people, break ukraine by raping ukrainian women. when we went to boutcha, we saw, we heard and we made a promise to ourselves: to do everything to make justice. the executioners must pay and the mechanisms for documenting and collecting evidence must be systematised. we also call on the union to set up clinical and psychological support programmes, because rape continues in the endless suffering of the victim. finally, while poland is hosting a very large number of ukrainian refugees, the commission must ensure that victims can have access to all their fundamental rights, including abortion. ladies and gentlemen, ukrainian women are now targets, they are also at the heart of the resistance. and i want to conclude by echoing the words of ludmila, whom i met in irpin and who commands a battalion of volunteers today on the eastern front: 'we need doctors, judges, reception of refugees, your listening, your calls for solidarity, but above all we need weapons to defend ourselves. if bullies are to prevail, the first thing to do is to help those who resist them.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in nigeria, on 12 may, a young christian student, deborah samuel yakubu, was stoned to death and then burned because she had simply complained about the influx of religious messages on her class's whatsapp group, which was considered blasphemous by islamists. christian communities in some muslim countries are subject to numerous murders and attacks, desecration of churches and cemeteries, and attacks on processions. but this is also happening in europe and in france. however, the european commission still refuses to appoint a coordinator to combat christianophobia or to establish a european strategy to combat this scourge, whereas such a coordinator was created to combat anti-semitism and islamophobia. the european parliament must debate this important subject of the persecution of christians in the world and, more specifically, the case of the young deborah samuel yakubu. it is absolutely essential to do everything possible to avoid such tragedies. to do nothing would be to be guilty.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, on 27 april the european commission formally launched an administrative procedure against hungary, which is a further step in a sanctions regime unprecedented in the history of the european union. this situation should make us reflect on why the 'two-treaties' are being written, with the approval of the cjeu. the procedure, which could take between five and nine months, will include two rounds of consultation, with a process described as collaborative by european officials - but let me doubt that, as the conclusions are known in advance. on the temporal scope of the sanctions, there are unfortunate contradictions between the council and the commission, the former stating that no measure should affect payments under the previous mff and the latter stating that the mechanism which entered into force on 1 january 2021 may affect all payments made since then, including payments under the previous budget which will continue to be made until 2023. these delays are indicative of certain legal uncertainties related to these new sanctions. the commission officials are concerned about the continued failure to implement the recommendations and requests made to the polish and hungarian authorities over the past several years. but is this only the case in these two countries? i don't think he is. for example, i do not think that freedom of the press is applied uniformly in the union. finally, i note with astonishment that on 3 may the french delegation, which is chairing the council of the eu, was absent from the debates on the procedures against hungary and poland. this is a historical fact revealing the double speech of the french presidency, which shows the council its desire to protect the rule of law and the european union, but which, alas, deserted the debates when it came time to discuss it.
madam president, this report is a new attack on the countries of the union which want to remain sovereign and in control of their own destiny. poland and hungary, for example, not only receive no aid from the european union, while these countries host millions of ukrainian refugees, but also do not receive the payment of the funds from the european recovery plan to which they are entitled. the commission has managed to circumvent the treaty, which requires unanimity to suspend the disbursement of these funds, by means of the so-called 'conditionality' mechanism, validated by the court of justice of the european union and intended to punish states that do not respect the rule of law, a vague and questionable notion which is in fact only a reflection of the european union's federalist and globalist ideology. the court of justice of the european union has thus, in fact, carried out a real judicial coup d'état, and this is similar to the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe, where the french president called for decisions to be taken no longer by the unanimity of the member states, but by qualified majority, which would make it possible to impose on the recalcitrant states the same ideology that we are fighting against. with the health and international crises, globalists see a new opportunity to advance their ideas. they do not want to understand that only a europe of nations with strong countries that retain their identity and sovereignty is capable of strengthening europe. the aim of diluting peoples and nations into a formless and soulless whole is ultimately to erase europe. and we don't want that.
madam president, commissioner, this report says what we see, what i saw when i was in poland with president séjourné. we saw these activists harassed by the police. we were in budapest, hungary, with my colleagues terry reintke and fabienne keller, where we said no to attacks on lgbt people. this report explicitly states that these countries are clearly breaking european rules. respect for the rule of law is first and foremost a matter of respect for european rules. that is what is written in the resolution and that is what we are going to vote on. so, in my country, some people want to disobey. we used to get that message from the far right. but unfortunately i see that some parties, coming from groups which have always been allies of the rule of law and european principles, want to sacrifice this fine principle of the rule of law on the altar of an electoral agreement for a few constituencies and thus bring us into this shameful relationship next year.
in writing. the european parliament's assessment of the commission's 2021 annual rule of law report increasingly appears to be an exercise in criticism of the domestic policies of the hungarian and polish governments, which are opposed to the federalist drift of the european union advocated by the commission. but the groups in the parliamentary majority who support ursula von der leyen, and who claim to be more royalist than the king on european federalism, in their europeanist persistence even criticise the commission because, in their view, the report does not explicitly recognise that the retreat of the rule of law in poland and hungary is a deliberate process. the committee considers that this interference by the european institutions in the internal politics of two sovereign countries is intolerable and undemocratic, especially since the governments in question were formed following free and legitimate elections. that is why this european structure must be changed from within to transform it into a cooperation of sovereign nations, an alliance of nations where the sovereignty of each state would be respected.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, you have spoken of 'robust' sanctions. but can we even once consider the economic effects of the sanctions we have taken? because the political effects are never seen. so far, i do not know of any country that has changed its position after sanctions. the result of these sanctions? the main sanctions against belarus, as you know, were on nitrogen and potash, which are its main products. belarus, together with china and russia, produces 60% of the production of these potash fertilizers. as a result, after these sanctions, prices have quadrupled. when i take and i invite you to do the same the statistics from eurostat, i find that belarus has never made so much money from this potash fertilizer. i never will. so i would like to see sanctions added to sanctions. i have the impression that this parliament is drunk on sanctions. but if we add sanctions, the question is what effect do they have? is this simply to please ourselves in this house? so i say that, of course, the situation in belarus must change. but if it does, i think, unlike some, that it will be by re-establishing dialogue rather than adding sanctions to sanctions. as a result of these sanctions, the countries i mentioned are now earning more, our farmers are seeing the prices of fertilisers skyrocket and consumers are seeing the prices of some agricultural products skyrocket.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you all for your comments and your support in such a difficult situation that we are facing in belarus. your statements confirm the importance and relevance of all support to the people of belarus. we distinguish very clearly between the government of belarus and the people of belarus and their aspirations for democracy. sanctions target the regime which supports the aggression and these restrictive measures will evolve along with developments on the ground. ordinary citizens who are against the russian invasion of ukraine will continue to receive our unwavering support. i look forward to continuing and deepening our cooperation, and we will, with the commission, pursue our shared goal: a free, democratic and prosperous belarus. and we will continue to see how it is possible to take other kinds of initiatives with your support. thanks again for that.
i'm the reporter. madam president, representative of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking my co-rapporteurs, luděk niedermayer for the epp, gilles boyer for renew, claude gruffat for the greens and josé gusmão for the left, as well as eugen jurzyca for the ecr. i do not thank the id group, because it was not present at the negotiations, as it has been too often. i would like to thank you for these very frank and very direct discussions we have had. i think we agreed to say that we didn't quite agree, but we had a mutual understanding of our disagreements. in my report, i always wanted to walk on two legs. the first was to give a strong voice to the european parliament - because we are not the european commission, we are not the council - and to propose more flexibility to this agreement through the question of the rate, the threshold and exemptions. the other leg was to treat this agreement with seriousness and responsibility, because it is a historic agreement that we had in our hands, a historic agreement that required extremely fine negotiations, working time and not doing anything, to put it very clearly. but in the negotiations, two visions were opposed, two visions, i believe, quite legitimate. on the one hand, there was a desire for more flexibility on the question of the threshold, on the question of the rate and on the question of exemptions, but also on the consequences for developing countries of this agreement, which was rather the line defended by the greens and the social democrats and the left. on the other hand, two political groups have made it very clear that they regarded the agreement as fragile, that it was already going too far for them, that the agreement was fragile and that it was urgent to consolidate it, which is also a perfectly legitimate request, especially as we are in the context of ecofin, at a time when one country in particular is blocking the agreement, which can put it at risk and which can also have consequences for our partners, and for our american partner in particular. in this context, it was decided not to touch on the most important markers of this agreement, i.e. the issue of the rate, the threshold and the exemptions, but instead to add safeguards on the issue of abuses to avoid certain types of abuse and circumvention of the agreement, to reduce the duration of certain exemptions, to also propose a revision clause, to assess the impact on developing countries and to propose delegated acts as soon as there is a change, an evolution of this agreement. but there is a 'but' in return we asked for the agreement to be implemented immediately, that is to say to stick to the timetable which had been initially proposed by the european commission, and not to postpone the agreement, as proposed by the council, because we had made efforts. the idea here is to speak with one voice, in a responsible way, to show that we in the european parliament are taking our responsibilities. we know how to compromise between right and left when it comes to making a historic compromise, even if we have differences. this agreement is not necessarily to everyone's liking: we are both satisfied and frustrated, because we would have liked, for example, to have had a much higher rate or something of the sort. but we refuse to let it be held hostage by certain governments, for example, which have accounts to settle which have nothing to do with taxation. that is why i hope that tomorrow we will vote unanimously to demand that this agreement, which, let us remember, is historic and which we have been waiting for for so many years, be put into effect as soon as possible. we would then be the first continent to implement it. we often complain about the slowness of the european union and here it has been very fast. it is up to us to show responsibility by supporting this approach.
madam president, macron and the french presidency told us that tax evasion, i promise, is over. their absence from the debate today is certainly a symbol of their desertion from their fight against tax evasion. because they told us that multinationals were finally going to pay their taxes thanks to this so-called minimum rate of 15%. except that this rate is barely higher than that of the tax haven of ireland, it is three times lower than that of france in the 1980s and far from the 25% we propose with the ngos. however, a large number of companies are excluded from the field. except that certain activities and certain countries will not be affected. anyway, that's a lot of "ifs". and for mckinsey and other tax evaders, we've gone from open bar to happy hour. the size of the champagne cups has decreased somewhat, but there is still a long way to go. of course, we're winning a cultural battle; i remember a time, a few years ago, when i was working at oxfam, where we were still a long way off that path. but i say, my dear colleagues, let's move on to the next level and impose a real universal tax on businesses so that there are no more "exceptions" and that all businesses finally pay their fair share of taxes.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for a very strong debate. the rapporteur can be very pleased, ms lalucq, with the support you are getting for your work. i am very glad that the commission and parliament agree on the need to urgently adopt this file and there is a strong voice in support. so, our appreciation of that. so now it’s for the council, and for the last opposing member state to agree to the compromise. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank you again for the many valuable suggestions on how to improve the legal text of the commission’s proposal. we understand and agree with the spirit of most of parliament’s suggestions and amendments, and they provide valuable food for thought in the ongoing debate on the adoption of the directive in council, where we are very close to reaching a general approach on the presidency compromise. furthermore, your suggestions will be very useful in the discussions within the so—called implementation framework, which will have to conclude on a number of topics, including safe harbours and exchange of information, and that all eu member states will then need to implement. some colleagues raised the issue about the 15% and i would repeat the point i made in my opening remarks that this is a rate endorsed by all member states and by our partners at the international level. i really appreciate that parliament in its majority support that particular rate. you mentioned, ms regner, that this is historic and you are absolutely right. i’m very pleased to be here on behalf of my colleague, paolo gentiloni, in this historic moment, because there were times in the past that this was thought not to be possible. but we still have work to do and therefore we very much encourage parliament to keep the pressure on, and we appreciate this debate, particularly the work of the rapporteur.
i'm the reporter. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that one state's ears have been particularly ringing tonight. in short, europe is often accused of being slow, of doing nothing in the tax field and of doing little in the social field. but here we have a european commission that has reacted extremely quickly - and that is something to be proud of - and has done something strong in the tax field. it is a historic agreement, it must be stressed, which will inevitably have an effect on the social field. i would remind you, however, that in this continent multinationals are taxed at 9%, whereas smes are taxed at over 20%. but our efforts are blocked. what's blocking them? by a government. so one might say that this government has not ratified the oecd agreement and therefore necessarily opposes the directive. no, i'm not going. it could also be said that the proposal put forward by the european commission is so different that, in the end, this government is opposed to it. i'm not either. one might think that there are technical difficulties. the negotiators were nevertheless able to find solutions to all the technical problems, whether those of estonia, malta, cyprus or ireland. you could also say it's because the deal isn't going to make any money. no pot, again, the agreement will bring huge money to the polish government. in fact, if the negotiators do not find a solution, it is because the government in question does not want a solution, the problem is elsewhere, it is exerting a kind of blackmail, as we know, it is putting pressure on the european commission on issues that are absolutely not related to the taxation issue. this government wants to block, it can block, so it blocks. even if it endangers this agreement for us europeans. it is not enough to make our american partner feel uncomfortable. that is why i hope that tomorrow we will vote in favour of this agreement in a very clear way. and that is also why, in my view, we will have to think, as you know, about the question of unanimity. because it's no longer possible to work in these conditions. it's really a bonus to be able to be a nuisance all the time. this behaviour is particularly insidious in the sense that, for example, we have the stability and growth pact, we have agreements on which we do not necessarily agree, but they are clear. there, we can oppose it. agree or disagree. but they're clear. it's insidious, it's insidious because it stops us from moving forward, it stops us from progressing. and europeans may not be aware of this kind of blockage. so we are appealing to the commission and we are putting pressure on it - and i think it is a pressure it will accept - to get out of this unanimity which is hurting us so much.
madam president, shireen abu akleh, the death of this famous palestinian-american journalist has shocked the world. she was wearing her helmet and her press-guard vest and was shot in the head. killing a journalist is a crime against freedom of expression that cannot go unpunished. we call for an international investigation under the auspices of the un which can determine the whole chain of responsibility. but the horror didn't stop with shireen's murder. another journalist who was standing next to her, ali al-samoudi, was also shot. the investigation must also concern him. there were shootings, other deaths, undignified provocations at the funeral and arrests among the funeral participants. but how far will injustice go? how far will the horror go? i ask that we have the courage to take the decisions to demand sanctions so that this crime does not go unpunished like others.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, more than 90% of guadeloupeans and martiniquans are contaminated with chlordecone, which gives the west indies the world's worst record for prostate cancer. soil, subsoil, watercourses and shores should be decontaminated, and aid should be provided for the conversion of contaminated land and for the modernisation and control of drinking water production sites. in 2022, guadeloupeans, martiniquans and mahorans still did not have access to running water. sargassum algae are ravaging the ecosystem of the french west indies in martinique and guadeloupe. so, in application of article 168 of the feu treaty, which provides for a high level of human health protection in the definition and implementation of all union policies and actions, what measures could the commission take to take better account of these health disasters affecting the french outermost regions?
mr president, commissioner, the latest figures on the unemployment rate in france have just been published. the post-covid economic recovery has helped to reduce this rate, but it is still a matter of concern, especially among those under 25 years of age, as it stands at 14.9% on average in the european union. the european labour market has changed and has to respond to several major challenges. i am thinking in particular of the impact of globalisation, the speed of technological change, the acceleration of the green transition and the shortage of labour in certain sectors. the creation of a european education area is a step in this direction and should help to bring the skills of workers into line with those sought by employers. in this context, the development of new lifelong learning opportunities, such as individual training accounts and micro-certifications, seems to me to be essential. these opportunities make training more accessible, more flexible and more inclusive. they enable people to acquire useful skills at any stage of their career and thereby enhance their employability. but all this will only be effective if the obstacles to the recognition of qualifications are removed.
mr president, if education for the disabled or in remote areas is a noble goal, it is a pity that once again the european parliament is trying to put ideology where common sense could have sufficed. this draft european standards on micro-certifications or automatic recognition of diplomas has a stated purpose. the aim here is again an infringement of the sovereignty of the member states. it attempts to create a strong sense of european citizenship and to interfere in what is still a national competence. as a frenchwoman, i can only be suspicious of this text. indeed, france has always distinguished itself throughout the world through its culture and teaching traditions, thanks to its academic excellence. of course, there is no question of establishing hierarchies in the quality of teaching. but the european union does not have to sell off national treasures to satisfy a federalist will. let us protect our national specialities, let us protect education.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the unleashing of barbarism in ukraine today is unfortunately not new to the 21st century. let us remember what happened in aleppo. let us remember what happened in the whole of syria, ruled by an ally of mr putin. it was the same thing, it was the same thing. and that is why today, when we lay the foundations - because that is what we are doing - of a new international justice against war crimes, we are not only expressing our solidarity with ukraine and our indignation. we also remember aleppo and we try to prevent more crimes tomorrow in other countries, on other continents. we are laying the foundations, commissioner, for a new action by the european union against war crimes.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. systematic rapes, civilians tied up and shot in the streets, torture, hospitals and schools razed to the ground. the russian soldiers' terror strategy in ukraine is without limits. why would they bother? impunity has existed for 20 years: impunity for crimes committed in chechnya, impunity for crimes committed in syria, impunity for crimes committed in russia itself, impunity for crimes committed in georgia. impunity has turned the russian army's massacres into the norm. it is time to break this impunity, to end this impunity. justice is not just about what we owe to the victims: it is about preventing future crimes. and so it is also to prevent the temptation that arises in some capitals to consider a return to 'business as usual' after the war. we don't argue, we don't party, we don't ally with war criminals and criminals against humanity. vladimir putin belongs in a court of law, not in brégançon.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, when our bills are skyrocketing, there is one thing to do, it is simple, it is basic, and above all it can relieve millions of people in the galley: to block prices so that lighting, heating or moving is not a luxury. but, as simple as it may seem, it took you almost a year, commissioner, to begin to timidly consider in your repowereu plan a gas price freeze, or even to dare to talk about taxing the companies that have taken advantage of it to eat too much. i could believe in a feat, but i know that the commission agreed to derogate from this most sacred energy market, in part because spain and portugal had already shown the way without waiting for the green light from the european union. how disobedience can finally bring the european commission to its senses. but i suggest you don't stop us on such a good path. the war in ukraine is not just driving up energy prices. it is also the gasoline, wheat and many other basic food products that are increasing every day. so now that the european commission has discovered the usefulness of price regulation, i propose that we do the same for all basic necessities.
mr president, commissioner, what we are experiencing is a reflection of the more structural problem of energy dependence, which we have been warning about for a long time. that is why we must combat the myths of european energy policy. the first is that the market is capable of self-regulation. the second is that this problem is temporary and that it results from the invasion of ukraine. it's aggravated, but it's not the cause. without changing the rules of the market, fixing prices and strengthening public control of energy, everything will continue in the same way, with the energy cartels accumulating profits and distributing dividends, while households continue to pay. we need to invest more in renewable energy and ensure a real energy transition. the commission proposal does not abandon these myths. it admits for the first time that the invisible hand of the market does not magically regulate everything, but it does not draw consequences. we must therefore go to the causes. it is not enough, and above all it is not working, to replace dependence on russia with dependence on saudi arabia or the united states. only a fair, publicly controlled model that is compatible with climate goals can help our energy sovereignty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, first of all, full solidarity with poland and bulgaria. it was right not to pay in rubles, and we must now support these countries. we can't let russia blackmail us. commissioner, i fully support raising the renewable energy target to 45%. that was a suggestion from our epp rapporteur. it is good that the commission is now joining in, and i am pleased to say that we are also prepared to support this higher value in energy efficiency if certain conditions are met. i think that's important too. the auctioning of additional allowances from emissions trading is discussed very critically. as rapporteur and coordinator of the epp, i say that i can in principle support the idea. costs are going down, prices are going down, investment is going up. but it's not good to put the money into the building and resilience facility. parliament is out. the member states can do what they want. there are no cross-border projects. so we're gonna have to do some more work on that. what about the innovation fund for genuinely european projects? then we can go with you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, radically changing our energy supply model while maintaining productive capacity and growth in europe is a huge task, but we can do it if we are united, that is, if no country, as is unfortunately happening today, plays a double game or holds back. the points are clear and agreed, madam commissioner: accelerating renewables and hydrogen, creating local systems to maximise the potential, including energy, of the circular economy, efficiency and savings. i think we must have the courage to speak clearly to the european citizens, calling them to account and saying that they must change their wasteful behaviour. then the price issue: we can't wait for the worst to deal with it. price caps, joint purchases, interventions on the amsterdam platform, the ttf, where there is no clarity to understand how prices are formed: something has to be done now. dependence always makes us fragile, but dependence on russia, guilty of a war, makes us much more exposed, even ethically. that is why we must do everything we can and as soon as possible.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the attack by putin on ukraine challenges us all, calls for a common response and calls for solidarity between member states. and the grotesque thing is that we europeans have basically sponsored the building of putin's war machine for decades by buying his gas. this has to stop, and it has to stop now. that's why yesterday was a good day. and i would like to endorse the fine proposals that were put on the table yesterday, all of which clearly point in the right direction, namely that we get rid of putin's gas. it can only go too slowly. it requires more speed, it requires more green power at sea, and it requires more green power on land and in the sun. and so we are back to the starting point, which is the question of permits. it was therefore very pleasing and is pleasing that we can now seriously work on reducing the deadlines that allow us to produce all the green electricity that allows us to become truly independent. now we have to deliver. it's a big responsibility for all of us, including the people in this house.
mr president, it is very simple: lives are being sacrificed, lost, in ukraine, of course, with a war financed by our purchases of fossil fuels. it was therefore essential to raise our energy targets and finally to take concrete action. for no less than 22 years we have been dependent on 40% of russian gas and we say we will act. it's about time. but of course there is a but, and that but is not trivial. because lives are also being lost in ethiopia, for example, because of drought, or in india or pakistan, where it's 51 degrees. at 55°c, it is no longer viable for humans. the un and the international energy agency tell us one thing: we don't need any more fossil fuel infrastructure. we don't need to build any more. but we also know that we must not just not develop fossil fuels: we must also leave 40% of the reserves currently exploited underground. so for climate, for peace, let's stand up to the oil and gas multinationals and their super profits. let's go faster than that.
mr president, the situation created by the war launched by russia against ukraine risks putting us in a situation of shortages in the medium term in the european area and will continue to raise energy prices for consumers and businesses in our countries. it was then that the coalition currently in power in germany decided to go back on its word and vote against the taxonomy delegated act, including nuclear energy in the energy sources that can serve the decarbonisation of our continent. there is something like a purely ideological madness that cannot be explained otherwise. the commission itself, in the repowereu plan, would like to get us out of our dependence on russian gas without investing a single penny. however, financing is provided for nuclear energy, which now accounts for a quarter of european electricity production. it's fundamental that we be able to get out of the magical thinking. we will not avoid these shortages and the rise in prices if we are not able to take advantage of all the energy sources currently available. and to begin with, let us say it again here, germany and belgium must keep the power stations still in operation in their countries. that will be one billion cubic metres less per month of russian gas that we import. it is our honour that is at stake in this choice.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, as you know, this house has the rule of law at heart, and after the commission's decision, before the vote in the council, it seems to me important that the european parliament can reaffirm its positions on the polish question now, by means of a resolution. we are therefore proposing one as soon as this plenary session is over so that we can have more impact, including on the institutions which will have to deal with this case later.
madam president, the report describes turkey as a 'strategic partner' and recognises its interests and objectives in competing with the greek bourgeoisie for geostrategic upgrading. the european parliament calls on the turkish state to settle its concerns through 'dialogue and diplomacy', whereby the aegean and the cypriot eez will be put forward as 'the main platform' for co-operation, which is supported by the usa, nato and the european union. the euro-atlantic bloc, to which the greek government is aligning itself, taking on great responsibilities, encourages turkish over-flights, violations, and the questioning of greek islands, making, as the commission said in its statement, a dangerous distinction between 'inhabited' and 'uninhabited' islands. on the cyprus issue, the transformation of the provocative claim of 'unresolved conflict' into 'unresolved problem' in the report silences, in any case, the 48-year turkish invasion and occupation of cyprus and portends painful compromises of dichotomous solutions. the eurasian camp aims to strengthen the southeastern wing of nato and is bargaining to win turkey over in competition with russia. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the people must be alert.
madam president, commissioner, we have heard that president erdogan is asking the swedish prime minister to dismiss his defence minister. so if the turkish president has demands, we should tell him what we expect from him. mr erdogan, stop holding the application of finland and sweden for nato membership hostage. this is a legitimate request. your blackmail is not. mr president, stop believing that turkey is at home in syria. you are undermining the fight against daesh, a terrorism that has brought mourning to our continent. mr erdogan, please respect the sovereignty of greece and cyprus, it is not negotiable. mr president, do not buy the wheat that russia is stealing from the ukrainians, do not welcome the oligarchs with open arms. the war in ukraine is a historic turning point. it is up to you this time, for once, to put turkey on the right side of history. you still have time, but you're running out of time.
madam president, this is a very good report and a strong report and so it needs to be followed with strong actions. this report highlights that our approach so far has failed to seriously address the human rights crisis in turkey that is becoming extremely dire alongside the erosion of democracy and the rule of law. the turkish authorities have constantly disregarded the rulings by the european court of human rights. we were one month ago, less than one month ago, in this parliament, discussing the concerns we have on the aggravated life sentence handed to osman kavala in 2022. the treatment of migrants at the border in the country is a disgrace for eu because we continue to subcontract how we deal with the situation. we still consider them as a real partner and we act as though we believe that there is a shared mutual respect for human rights, and there is not. and also, discrimination and criminalisation of kurds in turkey is not met with enough scrutiny on our part and in general by international stakeholders. generalised discrimination of minorities continues, while the european commission continues to engage in high—level dialogues. of course, it is a step in the right direction that the eu—turkey joint parliamentary committee took place earlier this year. but this report shows that we urgently need a much more severe attitude that can no longer be based on mutual trust.
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues. first of all, i want to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the very constructive and compromising way that we were building this file. we were building it before the happenings in ukraine. and even if the focus has shifted at the moment on security issues that result from the illegal and criminal and inhumane invasion of putin’s troops into ukraine, the biggest threat, mid- and long-term to our common security is the devastating effects of global warming, causing extreme weather, causing natural catastrophes like droughts, like floods, like tornadoes, like the rising sea level. it has devastating effects on food production. it creates conflicts and fuels conflicts around the world. and it creates a big competition and conflict around resources like land and water. all sectors of our economy and all sectors of our society actually have to contribute and are contributing to a co2 neutral society. while the military services and security services, especially the military services, are not even mentioned in the paris agreement – we have to be aware of that – they are one of the biggest emitters and one of the biggest absorbers of fossil fuels that we have in our societies. but through climate mainstreaming by the european commission and the green deal and all of us together, this also has an impact on our security services. so there is a clear demand also towards the security services to reduce their co2 emissions by 30%. and knowing that far more than 50% of the co2 emissions actually come from cooling and heating or from procurement and other services, we see that there is a huge potential, even before we start talking of potentially electrifying tanks. and this may sound like a joke, but i had conversations with generals who saw the security advantage of possibly actually producing their own fuel on the base somewhere in the sahel zone to actually run some of their equipment without being dependent on fossil fuel deliveries. we have to be aware that this report is pointing out clearly towards the security needs that we are having also, in terms of cooperation with local populations, which is very much also related to the question whether we are equipped for extreme weather. what advantage does it have if we have equipment on the ground, which we cannot use because it’s just too hot or weather extremes are preventing us from using it? but also equipping our missions with the tools to actually cope with extreme weather can also be of use to also help civilians and local populations to cope with extreme weather. and this cooperation with local populations is also key for us in terms of peacebuilding, in terms of peace making, in terms of also cooperating on local solutions, which also make our civilian and military missions more secure for our staff. so this cooperation, local cooperation, is key. and yes, the experience of many of our generals is that the cooperation, especially with women on the ground, is very much delivering – you’ll find this in the report. we also have to see that we need climate experts in our missions because, meanwhile, we have data where we can actually already see well ahead where potential conflicts or already existing conflicts are accelerating through climate data because a lot of the conflicts that we see are actually based on land and water conflicts. and to use these data to bring them all together, to analyse them and to have people on the ground that are able to cope with this information will allow us and can allow us to also prevent conflicts and prevent actual clashes and and violent activities on the ground. and last but not least, there’s a lot of initiatives across all sectors. we’re having it in the external action service, we’re having it in the defence fund. nato is working on climate strategies. national governments are working on climate strategies. and this report also points out that we need to align all of that to one common defence and climate strategy. it is very important that we use the knowledge that is there, the activities that are there, because we need to accept the reality that this is the biggest security threat we have in the long and medium term. we need to be prepared for this. we launched this report with the hope that we’re going forward to these long-term solutions with some goals.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, i make this statement on behalf of high-representative vice-president josep borrell. i would like to thank rapporteur waitz and all the meps who have contributed to this timely report. in a poll taken by eurobarometer in january 2022, eu citizens ranked climate change and environmental issues first among the main global threats. it would be more accurate, therefore, to say, as your report rightly does, that climate change acts as a threat multiplier, it exacerbates socioeconomic instability in fragile countries, leading to increased insecurity. this is also what the strategic compass clearly highlights upfront. global energy transitions will also change the geopolitical landscape and the war in ukraine is a catalyst in this regard. it provides an additional strategic urgency to invest more in green energy and reduce our external dependencies on oil and gas imports. this applies also to the defence sector and we do have to pay close attention, as your report underlines, to security of supply and manage the dependencies on critical raw materials. as your report also rightfully emphasizes, our aim is to incentivise member states to prepare their armed forces for climate change and to contribute to the energy transition of our continent, not to put any constraints or limitations on the use of their equipment. greater energy efficiency equals greater operational efficiency and safety. in afghanistan and iraq, resupply convoys of fuel and water accounted for 40 to 50% of the casualties. later this month, we will present the first joint progress report on the implementation of the climate change and defence roadmap, as well as the concept of an integrated approach for climate change and security and reflect on additional work strands. in this context, we take up your proposal to develop an action plan by 2023 that builds on ongoing work while prioritising and updating our activities in the light of the changed strategic context. we will take the valuable proposals of your report fully into account as we move forward. the aim is to equip ourselves to tackle the different climate security challenges that we see emerging already today. take the example of the sahel, where climate change is leading to increased instability. we are improving the way our early warning, planning and programming take the relevant climate-related conflict drivers into account. we deployed environmental advisers to our csdp missions in mali and in central african republic and will start to measure their environmental footprint. to strengthen our strategic foresight on the future operational environment in the sahel, but also other regions like the arctic, we propose to prepare a regional or thematic climate trend analysis in line with your report. they will inform our future operational and capability development efforts as our armed forces will need to operate under the more extreme climatic conditions. we have already seen examples of helicopters which cannot fly because the electronics do not work when it is well over 40°c. another key challenge is to make the armed forces gradually more energy efficient and sustainable. their combined energy consumption is comparable to a smaller member state. we need to invest more in research and development as we are doing through the european defence fund and pesco. and we continue to build on the work done by the european defence agency in gathering data on energy efficiency, circular economy, green procurement and energy resilience. in taking forward all this work, we will continue to cooperate closely with our international partners, notably the united nations and nato, but also bilateral partners such as the united states or canada. climate change will impact our security landscape for decades to come. it is only by working together that we can address global challenges of such magnitude.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. we have chosen this outfit today - many of us in this house - because we are celebrating 60 years of the eu's agricultural policy. and that's a success story that needs to be reinforced again and again. i am therefore pleased that an austrian farmer, thomas waitz, has accompanied this important report as chief negotiator, as rapporteur here in the european parliament, because tackling climate change and updating defence policy and making it fit for the future are not yet success stories. that's why it's important to see both. it is also good to write both in a report, and i see the report as very differentiated. i think it's good that climate change is seen as a security risk in this report, because it is. i always like to quote david beasley, the head of the world food programme, who says that climate change is the second biggest cause of crisis after man-made conflict. we have to face it. i am critical of the fact that some forces are encouraged to do their work more or less carbon neutral. it's not gonna work. we need to ensure that we address climate change - in politics, in all sectors of society. the armed forces protect people first. we are also called upon to protect the climate.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr waitz, because i believe the report is timely and shows that this house is a leader in topics that will shape our future. the world has changed since 24 february, and so the view of many on our defence. we need more cooperation between our member states and with our partners, through a set of actions. i believe in importance to prepare for new security challenges affected by the climate change, which could increase threats and have geopolitical consequences. we can already witness that in areas such as the arctic or the sahel. i also want to point out the water issue. due to climate change, water supplies will be affected, while global water demands will rise. therefore, i believe we produced an ambitious report to respond to some of the biggest challenges of our time. our response definitely should be both more environmental and without endangering our safety in these unstable times.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, with the intensifying environmental crises, our european armed forces, but also our union missions and operations, are faced with increasingly difficult conditions for action. these same armed forces are major consumers of fossil fuels and their emissions are not included in the paris climate agreement, as the rapporteur has pointed out. we therefore call through this resolution for military activities to play a full part in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, while maintaining their operational efficiency. to do that, we need to have a common methodology for quantifying these emissions and that is what we are asking of mr borrell. secondly, we must reduce the environmental impact of our military activities, whether for aircraft, tanks or military buildings. we need to invest in energy efficiency and new energy sources. i would like to stress one last point: reducing the use of fossil fuels in our armed forces must reduce our dependence on them. we are very dependent on third countries for these fossil fuels. the fact that we are not doing so is a means of strengthening our european strategic autonomy, which is more necessary than ever.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we speak, more than 20 million europeans live on islands. and when we look at the list of challenges facing island territories: adaptation to climate change, energy challenges, transport, youth, employment, well, we realise that these are the great challenges facing the european union and we immediately see that we are bound by a common destiny. so we need a common strategy to offset the effects of insularity, which are aggravated by remoteness and isolation. this report must be seen as a call for action for all the islands of europe, because from the mediterranean to the indian ocean and the atlantic, we can clearly see that our common points are more important than our differences. and this report is also a call for respect for the specific features of each of our territories. we need a strategy adapted to the realities, constraints and challenges of each of our territories and islands. i believe that this is the key to the success and effectiveness of a european strategy for all our islands.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this report deplores the union's lack of vision for the european islands and i would like to focus on the french outermost islands, which have been suffering particularly for the last five years. in accordance with article 168 of the treaty, which relates to human health, the commission must take account of health disasters, in particular chlordecone, access to running water and the destruction of sargassum, on which i have already spoken at length. secondly, given the dramatic economic situation facing our compatriots overseas, the erdf budget must be increased and its access streamlined, so that the beneficiaries can have it as soon as possible, the length of the deadlines being such that the persons concerned cannot have it in a timely manner. these administrative obstacles deprive them of borrowing capacity. it would therefore be appropriate to envisage the establishment of a european guarantee mechanism to reassure lending institutions. the posei scheme must also be extended beyond this year and it must not be increased to the detriment of the cap and french farmers who are still suffering hardships this weekend. the budget of the specific supply arrangements should also be increased, the amount of 26,9 million of which has not been revised since 2013. finally, i proposed the creation, along the lines of the european space agency and between states with a maritime domain, of a european maritime agency with its headquarters in french overseas departments. this intergovernmental agency, which could be joined by countries outside the european union such as the united kingdom, would have as its strategic development axis the exploration of energy and mineral resources, hydrocarbons, polymetallic nodules and sulphuric mixtures, research on renewable marine energies, biological animal and plant resources, transport and maritime surveillance. this cooperation should not call into question national sovereignty over the maritime areas concerned, nor the supervisory role of national navies. the agency could be a venue for diplomatic cooperation on maritime issues and a starting point for commercial projects at european level. it would be of considerable importance, as the french outermost regions play an undeniable strategic role in the geopolitical balance, particularly in the indo-pacific. i am sorry, mr rapporteur, that you did not accept this amendment, which is in the general interest.
mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has a real wealth that is too little known: its islands, its geopolitical wealth, its human wealth. it's these islands that make us a global power. but instead of exploiting this potential, this specificity and these riches, the european union keeps these territories in a sometimes deplorable socioeconomic state. i am speaking in particular of the french overseas departments. your report, mr rapporteur, seeks to adapt european software to the specific constraints of our islands. all too often, policies designed for the continent unfairly penalize us, especially in our own air transport sector. this is a very good ambition, but unfortunately it is not reflected in the package of adjustments to objective 55 which neglects the interests of our overseas countries. mr president, you are like me from an island in distress. you know how humiliated we feel when we are reduced to begging for the mere application of treaties. we have been pursuing what are called catch-up policies for decades. but we can no longer be satisfied today with our overseas catch-up policies that do not work. we need to have a new development model specifically tailored to our constraints. unfortunately, when i read the texts on 'adaptation to objective 55', i doubt whether the european institutions really share our commitment to the specific features of islands, especially those overseas.
madam president, the european union is not just a contiguous territory stretching from the atlantic to its border with russia, belarus, ukraine or turkey. they are also islands inhabited by millions of europeans who need the european pact for the islands proposed by the rapporteur, mr omarjee, which takes account of article 107 state aid, regional policy and the problems of adapting to the green transition which require islands as a fragmented territory, where there is unemployment, where there is a need to support the primary sector, fisheries and agriculture, and where there is a need to diversify the economy with a special effort in the field of connectivity that corrects the problem posed by double and triple insularity. that is why we are voting in favour of the european pact for the islands. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for this very rich debate. i fully understand how difficult it is for the functioning of the economy on the islands. i had the opportunity to visit the spanish island of la palma a few months ago, and it was after the volcano eruption, and it was an opportunity to see the difficulties for the functioning of agriculture and how difficult the recovery is for agriculture after this horrible disaster. i have taken good note of the various points made and will work with my colleagues in the college, as well as with the member states, to ensure that islands are not left behind in our efforts for a more cohesive, digital and green europe. we have an eu strategy for islands and the pact of islands. we have the territorial agenda that provides an action-oriented framework to promote territorial cohesion in europe as envisaged in the treaty. the territorial agenda 2030 recognises that europe has diverse territories such as coastal zones, islands and mountainous areas, inner peripheries, plains, river valleys and lake basins – all these territories have unique development challenges and potential. there is substantial variation among the island regions, both in terms of gdp per capita levels and economic growth. this suggests that the islands do not face the same development issues, that diversity makes it difficult to approach these regions as a single group. cohesion policy encourages all member states and regions to develop their own strategy, taking into account their strengths and weaknesses, including those linked to geographical characteristics. the european commission remains committed to islands for all cohesion policy and rural development programmes and for all other instruments addressing the needs of islands under other key policies from horizon to the connecting europe facility. thank you for your commitment as we programme and launch these funds together. we look forward to our collaboration in the coming years.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would first of all like to thank all the political groups in the committee on regional development for supporting this important initiative for the islands, and i believe that this debate is an important moment in the relationship between the islands of the european union and the european institutions. i listened very carefully to the commissioner and i think we must clear up any misunderstandings. the commission cannot pretend to ignore the profound meaning of this report by playing on a confusion between the outermost regions and the other islands, which are not covered by article 349 of the treaty and fall under article 174 of the treaty - i am thinking in particular of the islands of the mediterranean. this report therefore aims at the full application of article 174 today. it is true that the commission and regional policy, and the regi committee have an ambitious action plan for the outermost regions. this ambitious action plan must be pursued and maintained. but we also need to hear the fragility of all the islands and what they can bring to the european union. we are systematically asking you, upstream, to take account of the fragility, the particularities, the specificities of the outermost regions as well as of the other islands of the european union, for all the reasons which have been made explicit in this very rich, high-quality debate, and which i hope will open a new era for the european union to have a genuine island ambition.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. the european island regions, 2 400 islands, including my own region, sicily, belonging to 13 member states, with an estimated population of over 20 000 000 inhabitants (4.6% of the total population of the eu), represent a heritage of inestimable beauty and richness in terms of landscape, biodiversity, culture and language. the geographical peculiarity of these territories, however, entails a number of natural and structural disadvantages which greatly penalise the citizens: dependence on sea and air transport, resulting in higher costs for services and products; dependence on a limited number of products; difficulties in accessing water and managing water resources; seasonal population pressure. the european cohesion policy requires that this 'geographical disadvantage' be addressed. the commission should draw up a 'pact for the islands' and a european action plan with the aim of reducing the socioeconomic gap between the islands and the mainland. the legislative package fit for 55% currently being implemented will have to take this reality into account and create the conditions for these territories to become a valuable laboratory for sustainable policies in areas such as clean energy, the circular economy, tourism, smart mobility, waste management and the blue economy.
the next item is the commission's question time (rule 137). i would like to welcome the commissioner who has just arrived, stella kyriakides, for an interview. this question-and-answer session focuses on reducing the use of pesticides and strengthening consumer protection. this question period will last approximately 60 minutes. questions are not allocated in advance to individual members. the question will be asked in one minute, the commission will answer in two minutes, the supplementary question in 30 seconds and the reply in two minutes. any additional question must be strictly linked to the question in question and must not constitute a new, independent question. if you wish to ask a question, please register your request now by using the catch-the-eye function of your voting machine after the ballot card has been entered into the machine. instructions are available in the conference room. i would remind you that you are free to choose your seat in the chamber, except for the first two rows, which are reserved for group leaders. questions shall be taken from the place of the hearing. i urge all speakers to stick to the speaking time allotted to each of you. members may need a moment to register their request to put a question on the voting machine. i'm going to ask you to register your request now, and then we'll start with the first question.
madam president, commissioner kyriakides, welcome to this round of questions. the commission has announced that we will soon have a regulation - i thought it would be a directive, but apparently it is a regulation - on the more sustainable use of pesticides, that is to say, on their reduction, as promised in the european green pact. it is a demand of society, no doubt, but i must say from the outset that we are concerned, because the problem for farmers is not the reduction of pesticides, but the lack of alternatives to be able to implement it. i would therefore like to make it clear here today, in this or in the next speeches by my colleagues, what the percentage of pesticide reduction will be and what alternatives the commission will put at the disposal of farmers so that plant health is not harmed.
member of the commission. – thank you, mep aguilera, for the question. first of all, in terms of the targets that you have asked for, let us go back to the beginning and say a little bit about the ‘farm to fork’ strategy. farm to fork has been put in place with very clear targets. it’s a strategy that is part of the green deal in order for citizens to have safe and affordable foods. what we have said in our strategy is that, by 2030, we will reduce the use of chemical pesticides by 50%, and again, by 2030, we will reduce the use by 50% of the most hazardous pesticides. you are totally correct in saying that we are putting forward before the summer a new ‘sustainable use of pesticides’ regulation. this is important for us in order to be able to build up our long—term food security and resilience. but we are fully aware also of the challenges that are going to be faced, and the need to have alternatives, and we are working very closely with the member states in order to be able to have this. i think that what we also need to say from the very beginning of this interesting debate is that we are aware of the challenges, but doing nothing is clearly not an option. i think we all need to agree on that. we also know that there are various studies that have shown that the current directive has weaknesses in its implementation. this is why we are going to be moving forward, because over—use of pesticides leads to contamination of our air, of our soil, and it definitely impacts on our health. we will be moving forward while also helping farmers develop other, less hazardous, less dangerous options that they can use. for this we are already moving to encouraging the use of bio—pesticides so that they can be an alternative to chemical pesticides that will allow farmers to continue to be producing in a safe way and also be protecting crops.
madam president, madam commissioner, in order to ensure that there is responsibility and that the reduction of the percentage you want to see to 50 per cent is real, viable and feasible alternatives must be made available to farmers from the moment the reduction occurs. why not bring forward the new regulations on new farming techniques, which would be a good way out, along with pesticides or other alternatives? they are pursuing this initiative or taking other initiatives, but, while carrying out the reduction, they have to make other products available.
member of the commission. – yes, and we will be doing everything possible to make these alternatives available. we are going to be using, and this is how we’re going to be moving forward ... we’re going to be giving support to farmers during this transmission. they will have the support through the cap in order that we can move to more environmentally friendly farming. and experience has shown us that we can do this and we are able to move forward by giving them alternatives. and i believe that this is the way that we are going to be able to deliver on our ambition: by providing alternatives to the chemical pesticides, by encouraging the use of biological alternatives, and by facilitating and using innovation in order to achieve this.
member of the commission. – i’m well aware of the concerns, especially due to the current situation that we are living in with the ongoing russian aggression in ukraine. however, i will go back to what i said: doing nothing is not an option. of course, everything that we are putting forward in ‘farm to fork’ is based on scientific guidance, and an impact assessment on the targets has been carried out and will be published towards the end of this year. so we are moving very carefully, impact assessments are being carried out and, of course, we are basing all our proposals on science.
member of the commission. – for all the initiatives and proposals that are in ‘farm to fork’, impact assessments are ongoing. i believe that we need to also understand that the current crisis, in fact, should strengthen our resolve, that we need to move forward and strengthen the resilience of our food systems. we will do this without leaving anyone behind. we need to do this having everyone on board and, of course, farmers are very much an important part of this process. so please appreciate that impact assessments are ongoing. we are constantly in consultation with stakeholders. it is important for us that farmers are supported throughout this transition. but really the alternative of doing nothing, i think, is something that we can all agree is not a viable option. it is very clear to us – and i will stop here – following the pandemic, how interconnected our health and our environment is, and that we need to move forward in a different way.
madam president, madam commissioner, there are two assumptions that can be made. the first is that there is a clear link between pesticide use and consumer health, and it is our duty to check that consumer health is no longer at risk and to ensure that it is not. the other observation - and i am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, i am going to have to come to the commissioner's aid - is that there are other solutions. we have robust scientific studies that demonstrate that pesticide substitutes have a name: agronomy. i've been using these methods for a long time as a farmer myself, and they work wonderfully, because biodiversity helps us, because the climate is less violent towards people who work with these alternative methods. we must therefore ensure that public policies support only these alternative methods, but unfortunately the cap is not up to the task, and the national strategic plans submitted by the majority of member states are not up to the task either. the question i have to ask you, madam commissioner, is this: how are we going to meet the deadline we have with history with this cap and with the national strategic plans that are currently on the table?
member of the commission. – (begins off microphone) ... for that input. and it gives me the opportunity to come back to a point as well that there is increasing evidence – and you have already stated that – that alternative products can effectively substitute the use of chemical pesticides. and, in fact, i have data from spain that show that the use of chemical pesticides in indoor vegetable production in almeria has been reduced by over 55%, and that over 80% of protected crops now use biological controls to treat pests. so there are ways forward, and we will be working with member states, and already are working with member states, so that they are able to use their caps in a way that will support farmers in this transition. i think it is important to show that we do have the science – the figures are very encouraging – that we can work together to reduce the use of pesticides without compromising food security. and i would agree with you totally that this is tied in so closely with health that we need to move forward with this. so we are committed to moving forward with farm to fork, as we have been from the beginning.
commissioner, this is not a question. i would like to amplify and reinforce my point by saying that substitutes for pesticides are not necessarily new pesticides, new biopesticides, but above all agronomic practices that anticipate and prevent attacks by fungi, insects, by using less nitrogen for example. these are alternative methods that generate real virtuous circles for biodiversity, for our health and for the climate, and for the farmers' economy, among other things. i therefore urge you to work more on these methods, which are based more on agronomy than on molecules.
member of the commission. – glyphosate illustrates the importance that society gives to reducing pesticide use and to moving towards an agriculture system that is closer to nature. now, the renewal process is a long and complex one. i am concerned about the delay for the completion of the scientific reviews on glyphosate and the consequences that this may have on the timelines of the overall renewal process. as you know, the current approval of the active substance expires on 15 december 2022. however, we must respect this process and we must ensure that sufficient time is given to the scientific agencies to review – what i can assure you, because i have looked into it – the huge amount of comments of questions and evidence shared by citizens and stakeholders during the public consultation. i want to be absolutely clear: if evidence emerges that the forthcoming work that the approval criteria laid down in the eu legislation are no longer fulfilled for glyphosate, the commission will not hesitate to take action to not renew the approval of glyphosate.
i thank the commissioner. question time is over. the commission has also asked 16 members to submit questions, all of which were answered by mr kyriakides.
the next item is the report (a9-0152/2022) by mrs caroline roosen, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the implementation of article 17 of the cfp regulation (2021/2168 (ini)). i now give the rapporteur four minutes, mr president, mr president-in-office.
i'm the reporter. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be able to present this report on the implementation of article 17 of the common fisheries policy regulation. looking at this article is like asking who has the right to fish what in the european union. it should be recalled that the council is responsible for fixing the total allowable catches each year. these quotas are allocated among the member states, and it is then up to each member state to decide the rules according to which these quotas are allocated among the individual fishermen and producer organisations. it is therefore a matter for the member states, but article 17 of the cfp regulation lays down a number of obligations for them. the first is an obligation of transparency. the report points to the general lack of transparency and the fact that several states do not make public the details of the criteria they apply to allocate fishing quotas. it is necessary to put in place mechanisms that are transparent, accessible and understandable to everyone, not only from a democratic point of view, but also to enable all fishermen to have equitable access to fisheries resources. the remainder of article 17 deals with the type of criteria to be used and the incentive nature of distribution systems. it provides that states use economic, environmental and social criteria. the english text, which the co-legislators negotiated, is clear: the use of these criteria is mandatory. this is also the case in most eu languages. but there are differences in some language versions, which are now used as a pretext for not applying what the co-legislators voted for. the report stresses that few member states use environmental, social or economic criteria to allocate fishing opportunities and that, when they are used, they have very little weight in the final allocation. today, most allocation systems rely heavily on fishing priorities. our report stresses that this contributes to the economic concentration in the sector, while creating obstacles and making it unattractive for young fishermen. above all, small-scale and artisanal fishermen are once again being harmed. i'll give you an example. in 2020, small-scale fishermen received only a small part of the bluefin tuna quota: 3% in italy, 12% in croatia, 12% in france, 14% in portugal. in france, these small fishermen have taken legal action against the decision on the allocation of the bluefin tuna quota. the montpellier administrative court ruled in their favour at first instance. so yes, there is an appeal, but it shows that the current system is seen as unfair and that it creates frustration and discontent among fishermen. member states should also ensure that their allowance systems encourage better environmental practices. it is an obligation, and it is not implemented! since the adoption of the last reform, the commission has done very little. the report notes that no infringement proceedings have been initiated. yet the way in which fishing quotas are allocated is crucial. let's not kid ourselves: we cannot achieve the objectives of the common fisheries policy, the marine framework directive, the green deal or the biodiversity strategy without tackling the issue of quota allocation. if member states continue to let this go unchecked, let small-scale fishing disappear, and do not reward fishermen who adopt more virtuous fishing practices, we will not achieve our objectives. we therefore say clearly in this report: the commission must act. the report calls on the commission to do more to change the way in which member states allocate fishing quotas. sharing good practice, publishing guidelines, setting objectives, for example in the framework of the fisheries action plan. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their collaboration on this matter and i would ask you to vote in favour of this report and to maintain the important points on which we have agreed in the committee on fisheries.
madam president, madam commissioner, the extension of the health pass, which was originally scheduled for a vote tomorrow, will finally be voted on on 23 june. providing proof of covid-19 vaccination, test results or recovery so that one could continue to travel or work was an exceptional arrangement, which was due to end on 30 june 2022. the commission wants to extend it until 30 june 2023, even though the risks and urgency of the pandemic are now clearly questionable. in addition, vaccination does not prevent infection or transmission. in february, the commission launched a month-long public consultation. more than 385,000 people spoke out, the majority of whom were against the extension of the qr code. why is the commission so quick to communicate on the conference on the future of europe, which is based on the opinion of panels of 200 citizens, but does not take into account the opinion of more than 385 000 europeans who say no to the qr code? how do you handle this public consultation? in view of this denial of democracy, where parliamentary debate has been suppressed, and in view of the ignorance of this public consultation, i appeal to the european ombudsman.
madam president, the shadow of bullying has always lurked around our children, but now, for children who suffer this hell, not even their home is a refuge because every time they take their cell phone out of their pocket they face such cruel violence. with the spread of social media, these attacks have become more complex than anyone could have imagined a few years ago. the european union must go further in the fight against cyberbullying. we need studies at european level that provide accurate data, we need to know the causes and origins of this violence and we need tools for prevention and assistance to those who suffer it. we must put in place a major european strategy to combat bullying, with a view to the role of technology in this matter. and the european education area can be a way to implement it. cyberbullying haunts our children to the last corner of their lives and affects them forever. we must stop him as soon as possible.
madam chair, i would like to draw attention to our dependence on china's critical raw materials, including as a result of russia's aggression in ukraine. it brings not only thousands of victims, hundreds of thousands of injured, millions of displaced persons, but also other repercussions on the lives of each of us. whether it's the threat of famine, the disruption of supply chains, but also the disruption of critical raw materials. it's very clear that we need to build our self-sufficiency and independence, and it's important to emphasize that we need to develop a circular economy scheme, and also to negotiate good partnerships and maintain good partnerships with african countries, and certainly also to continue to negotiate partnerships with china, because unfortunately we need its resources of raw materials, and the war in ukraine is putting those resources at risk. it is a task for the commission and for all of us.
this hearing is closed.
this court is adjourned. it will be followed tomorrow, tuesday 7 june, at 9.00 a.m., by a joint debate on the fit for 55 legislative package. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
dear colleagues, it is a very important day for us in this parliament. the first item is the joint debate on fit for 55 (part 1), concerning the following: – the report by peter liese, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec establishing a system for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the union, decision (eu) 2015/1814 concerning the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the union greenhouse gas emission trading scheme and regulation (eu) 2015/757 (com(2021)0551 – c9‑0318/2021 – 2021/0211(cod)) (a9-0162/2022);– the report by david casa and esther de lange, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a social climate fund (com(2021)0568 – c9‑0324/2021 – 2021/0206(cod)) (a9-0157/2022); – the report by mohammed chahim, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a carbon border adjustment mechanism (com(2021)0564 – c9‑0328/2021 – 2021/0214(cod)) (a9-0160/2022);– the report by sunčana glavak, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec as regards aviation’s contribution to the union’s economy-wide emission reduction target and appropriately implementing a global market-based measure (com(2021)0552 – c9‑0319/2021 – 2021/0207(cod)) (a9-0155/2022);– the report by sunčana glavak, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec as regards the notification of offsetting in respect of a global market-based measure for aircraft operators based in the union (com(2021)0567 – c9‑0323/2021 – 2021/0204(cod)) (a9-0145/2022). nice to see you, ms zacharopoulou, welcome. let me start by congratulating you on your new function.
president of the council. madam president, dear former colleagues, i thank you for inviting me to speak on behalf of the council on this very important debate on a number of issues in the package fit for 55 fit for 55. almost a year ago, the commission presented this transformative package, which affects all sectors of the economy and our society as a whole, and aims to both reduce european greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 and set us on a path to climate neutrality by 2050. this is done by ensuring the future of our economy and guaranteeing the prosperity of european citizens, without excluding anyone. these concerns were at the heart of the french presidency's action, as reflected in its motto: 'relance, power, belonging'. the ambitious reform package we are discussing here must directly address the concerns of european citizens, who are facing today's rising cost of living in a context of political and economic uncertainty. so let's be clear: we must have a common goal of a balanced overall outcome, which will allow us to achieve our climate ambitions, agreed in a fair and cost-effective burden-sharing framework, where all sectors of the economy contribute, leaving no one behind and protecting both our citizens and the competitiveness of our economies. this year, europe has already faced two major crises: russia's aggression against ukraine and the rise in energy prices. these crises certainly marked our discussions on the "adjustment to objective 55" package, but they never distracted us from our overall objective. on the contrary, they have once again confirmed the need to decarbonize our economy and make our energy systems more resilient and independent. above all, we will have to look for concrete, effective and immediately applicable solutions to address the concerns of our citizens and businesses about the disproportionate growth in energy prices. the repowereu plan, which the commission presented a few weeks ago to reduce our dependence on fossil fuel imports from russia, depends very much on the achievement of the objectives of the 'adaptation to objective 55' package. as you know, a whole range of measures will be needed to achieve our climate and energy objectives. as co-legislators, we are driven by a sense of urgency to ensure that it is implemented as quickly as possible. your debate today and the vote that follows will therefore mark a decisive moment in the package's journey. we welcome the efforts of parliament to make progress on this package. i can assure you that the presidency is working tirelessly within the council to advance work on all the issues it contains, and this in all the relevant council formations, namely environment, energy, transport and the economy. during this work, the council attached great importance to maintaining the coherence of the package. the french presidency is therefore doing its utmost to secure agreement in the council on the closure of the dossier before the end of the month. as you know, the ecofin council in march gave a general orientation on the proposal for a carbon border adjustment mechanism, a flagship measure to apply the carbon pricing of greenhouse gas emission allowance trading systems to certain goods imported into the european union. this will enable us to tackle the risks of carbon leakage more effectively while respecting the rules of the world trade organisation. last thursday, the transport council reached agreement on the three dossiers under its jurisdiction, namely the proposal for a regulation on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure, sustainable marine fuels and sustainable aviation fuels. on 20 may, a negotiating mandate with parliament was approved for the decision to notify the compensation requirements of the corsia scheme. as regards the remaining issues, i am confident that the energy and environment councils will reach general guidelines by the end of june. the environmental issues that are the subject of today's debate are at the heart of the objective 55 adjustment package. they are ambitious but also present important challenges for us as co-legislators. how can we achieve a result that is both ambitious and balanced in the distribution of costs between economic sectors and member states? how can we achieve an outcome that stimulates innovation and ensures the competitiveness of our industries without placing the financial burden of climate change on the most vulnerable in our societies? while the concrete responses of parliament and the council may not be the same on all aspects of these proposals, i am confident that our common vision of the overall objective will help us to find common ground. i want to thank you for your attention and your commitment. i shall be very interested to hear your debate.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, it’s a year since you have decided to adopt the climate law. a historic decision. but it’s only the beginning of a very difficult process. and therefore, today, i believe we’re faced with some really, really difficult choices that will determine whether we stay within the legal boundaries we have set ourselves. reduction by 55% by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050 is not just a wish, it’s a legal obligation. and i think that should be the starting point of our discussion today. parliament was also quick to rightfully call what we’re in a climate emergency. we saw what the floods did last year in germany, in belgium and even in the netherlands, killing people, levels of destruction hardly ever seen. we had a tornado in the czech republic – never before. we had completely erratic weather patterns – snow in spain when you don’t expect it, droughts and floods all over the place when you don’t expect it. so i don’t think there’s any european citizen we need to convince that we’re in the middle of a climate crisis. it’s not a crisis that will be coming down the road. it’s here already. what we need to do is make this transition happen. the war has only accentuated the importance of making this transition happen as quickly as possible. money spent on renewables in europe is money that stays in europe. money spent on fossil fuel bought in russia is money that disappears in putin’s pockets and is then used to wage a war against his peaceful neighbours. this reality is the reality that should dictate the urgency of the measures we need to take. today, i would like to plead for two things: i would urge you to vote for a consistent package to reach our climate targets; and also i would urge you to make sure that in doing this we leave no one behind. our policy will be just or there just will not be a policy. and i have to admit, with all the admiration i have for what parliament has done so far, some of your positions do worry me. first, emissions trading for fuels and road transport and buildings. this is an incredibly important extra tool to tackle emissions in buildings and transport. in transport, emissions are not just rising gradually, they’re shooting up instead of going down. in buildings we need to double our effort to reduce consumption of energy. this is helping our citizens reduce their energy bills, delivering better—quality homes, reducing air pollution that still kills prematurely 400 000 europeans every year. it’s urgent. and then, of course, we need this instrument to fill a social climate fund that could help us help vulnerable households. if you look at what’s happening, this is what we need to help vulnerable households to switch to clean forms of heating and mobility. now, many members now want to reduce the new ets to commercial buildings and transport, at least for the beginning. this will take two thirds of the emissions out of the system. instead of delivering 45% of emissions reductions in buildings and transport, it would only deliver 10%. we agreed in the first european climate law to put ourselves irrevocably on the path towards climate neutrality. this is what parliament asks for every time. parliament also says the earlier, the better. we know it can’t be denied that change must urgently happen in road transport and buildings. we know that member states have not delivered the reductions in the past, and yet you plan to weaken an instrument that can deliver the emissions reductions in a socially fair manner. here i would like to address the members from member states with many vulnerable households: please, please make the right comparison. look where you are now. you’re paying astronomical amounts of money for gas and oil to russia and other countries. that money disappears. with our proposal for emissions trading and the social climate fund, you would not only keep more money, but you could use it to help your vulnerable households and you could do so before the effects of emissions trading are felt – first, the climate social fund, and only then the emissions trading effects will be felt. that is, socially, i believe, the right thing to do. it is only fair to ask those driving on petrol to pay a carbon price. those driving electric already pay that price. it’s only fair that those polluting more pay more. the heating and mobility of the 20% poorest in society only produce 9% of emissions. the 20% richer households emit 32% of emissions. a social climate fund that uses revenues from the wealthy, who could change their habits in order to help the vulnerable, who cannot, is a fair way of redistribution. yet your proposal could cut the social climate fund by half. this won’t be enough to ensure a fair transition. we will have to discuss this in the trilogues. members try and compensate with more ambition for heavy industry and maritime transport, but don’t think that this will shield the vulnerable. this too will have consequences. power plants could lose an extra 16% of the free emission allowances. this would increase energy prices for citizens and this time without help for vulnerable households. and obviously it would impact jobs and industry, too. we do not want jobs to get lost in industry, we want more jobs in industry. so the commission reserves its position ahead of the vote and will stand in trilogues for a package that is complete, coherent and socially fair. i am really grateful to parliament for moving the package towards trilogues. let’s agree that ultimately we want to transition in line with the climate law, the climate law which is binding on all of us. i want to end by telling you i was in poland last week talking to people who are faced with incredible price hikes, not just for oil and gas, also for coal. coal is also unattainable for many people. and everybody’s saying, how can i get my hands on solar panels? where is the heat pump i can install? so that country is transforming itself at lightning speed – at lightning speed, if you see how many solar panels you see on rooftops everywhere. so let us assist our citizens who know they need to do this by giving them the right incentives and by protecting the vulnerable against the consequences.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, this is a unique chance and a huge responsibility. i think that is what this legislative package that is on the table today is – no less than that. it is a huge opportunity and, i think, even a last chance, because we are the last generation that can change the course of climate change. and it is a huge responsibility, because only when we do the right thing, when we do this the right way, will we succeed. for the epp, that means three things. first of all, green does not come out of the blue. today we discuss hundreds, even thousands, of pages of legislation and amendments, and i would like to thank all those who have contributed constructively to getting us this far. but let me be clear: only putting objectives and percentages and standards and definition into these pieces of legislation will not in itself be enough to make change happen. we need companies, investors, industries who are willing to invest, and for that they need a green deal with a business case. investments require liquidity, and the current economic situation is not making things easier. this is why the epp believes we should not hit our industries and companies with a one—off rebasing at the start of the new ets. we need to be more gradual in our approach, give them breathing space in these challenging times while still demanding that they reach the reduction targets set by the commission – and even more. we also need hardware to turn the paper targets that we vote today into hands—on reality: energy interconnectors; cables to link up offshore renewables; grid capacity; the adaptation of natural gas infrastructure into green hydrogen infrastructure, etc. en zelfs in de provincie groningen, waar er op zee al genoeg wind voorhanden is en gasinfrastructuur al klaarligt en alleen maar aangepast hoeft te worden, zelfs daar blijkt dat zo makkelijk nog niet. vele projecten moeten vergund worden en procedures zijn te lang en te complex. de evp is blij met de aandacht van de commissie voor kortere procedures in repowereu. maar we verwachten meer. de commissie moet met lidstaten aan de slag om deze kortere procedures daadwerkelijk te realiseren. wij wensen hier een resultaatsverplichting, geen inspanningsverplichting, mijnheer timmermans. secondly, for the epp the green deal needs to be made in europe. this climate package will only succeed if it leads to innovation, opportunities and jobs in europe. this is why we need a level playing field for our companies and industries. this is also why the epp believes that we should not do away with our free allowances – which, let’s be fair, is currently the only instrument we have against carbon leakage – until we know that cbam works in praxis. thirdly, you can’t do green when you are in the red. these laws should not be a plaything for the green elites, and we should avoid putting the heaviest burden on those who can least afford it – and yes, mr timmermans, that is why we need a social climate fund to go hand in hand with the new ets. this might be the moment for me to remind you that it was your political family taking the lead in actually curtailing this ets too, and making the social climate fund smaller as a result. i would call on colleagues to stick to the compromise that was reached, even though it might not be beautiful. but i hear the temptation among some to say ‘okay, let’s then have a smaller ets – maybe even smaller than the one currently in the compromise’ and ‘let’s have a huge social climate fund without worrying about where the funding is going to come from’. that would be wrong. let’s stick to the compromise, though it might not be beautiful, and then we negotiate. the epp stands ready to do that work in a credible way.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of climate change. as early as 2018, my political family drew a line to equip us with what would be the european green deal. we ran for the 2019 elections with this initiative as an absolute priority and, since the beginning of this legislature, our political action has been concentrated on making it a reality. in the first months of this term, if you remember, we declared a climate emergency in this parliament, and in july last year we passed the climate act, a binding law that aims to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. i would like to highlight the efforts and determination throughout this process of our vice-president, frans timmermans. with the objective 55 package of measures we will be able to achieve the objectives of the climate law and turn them into reality. this requires a profound transformation of our economy. our industry, agriculture, transport will have to adapt as quickly as possible to achieve climate neutrality. this transformation will also have an impact on all areas and on all citizens. and there is only one way to do that, the way that we have always called for in my group, the way that ensures that this transformation is socially just: a green transition with a red heart. that is why the measures we are proposing today are accompanied by mechanisms which offset the costs and compensate for the efforts to ensure that this transition not only takes place but is also socially just and where there is no choice between paying the electricity bill or eating. we therefore propose, on the one hand, to create a social climate fund to help the most vulnerable households and, on the other hand, to secure and complete investments in sustainable infrastructure. in this context, the war in ukraine cannot and should not be an excuse for slowing down the green transformation, as some in this house are suggesting. on the contrary, it must be a signal to europe to stop being dependent on fossil fuels and authoritarian regimes. finally, this just and ecological transition cannot be confined to our borders. if it did, it would not be efficient for our citizenship. and so the carbon capture and storage mechanism is essential to prevent carbon leakage. and at the same time, this carries with it our responsibility to help those less developed countries reduce their carbon footprint. in short, the objective 55 package sets out the mechanisms for making this transition effective and is the best antidote against populists and denialists. we could use this plenary to try to attack some for putting their principles on the table, which are wrong. i'm not going to get into that provocation; i'm not going to get into that provocation, because that would be irresponsible. and i understand that the groups here who are working to make this a reality must do so in a responsible way, by trying to reach a majority agreement in this parliament so that it is possible to start negotiations with the council. that's the only way we're gonna make it happen. agreements always mean making concessions. it is not the agreement that the socialists would have reached, of course, but the fruit of work, dialogue, understanding, and the way in which politics can be carried out responsibly. so this approach of the european people's party seems to me to be only about deepening the differences, when what we need at the moment is to be able to work together for the same objective. dear comrades, we take responsibility in today's vote to show that our vote on the climate law was not just a political statement, but an iron commitment to citizenship. with this vote, we choose to leave a better planet for future generations. with this vote we choose that the green transition is not paid for by those who have less. with this vote, we choose to make history.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr vice-president timmermans, madam minister it is a great pleasure to see you in these seats, dear chrysoula the eight green pact laws we are about to vote on this week show that there is still much to hope for. hope for democracy first, because by proposing these laws we are responding to the wishes of the millions of voters who, in 2019, elected meps committed to climate and political projects committed to climate in the majority. this will allow for the emergence of projects which are 20 years old. finally, a carbon tax at the border! i've been hearing about this project since i was 15 years old, and i'm proud to be able to participate in this historic debate and vote. it is also a reason to hope for europe and its expertise, because it has been able to set carbon neutrality targets for 2050 in motion. from air transport to shipping, from heavy industry to forestry, we are pushing each sector one by one in the right direction, and it is also the role of this parliament to work with all sectors. finally, ladies and gentlemen, this is simply a reason for hope in politics. with the law on the end of the thermal car, we are effecting a social and organisational change as fundamental as the appearance of the railway or the telephone, and, for the first time, we are not managing a technological revolution: we are planning it. i want you to know that my group, renew europe, has no doubt about this. there is no doubt that the international situation requires us to reduce our dependence on oil even more rapidly. there is no doubt that our industry is also capable of being the first in the world to decarbonise and thus also to become more competitive on a global level. there is no doubt that we must also support the most vulnerable - and they will be supported - with an ecological revolution and the social fund for the transition. so there is a way to do this by listening to scientists and engineers, by wisely weighing the responsibilities of transition, by responding to social risks, by showing the true face of ecology, which can bring together transition and growth. with these laws, we enable everyone to drive without polluting, we will make polluters pay including outside the european union, with this carbon tax at the eu's borders we will avoid households bearing the burden of this transformation disproportionately. the environment is well done in this house, not in the easy indignations, but in the complex detail of the law, amendment by amendment, we are building this desirable future.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, when we came home from glasgow last year, the message was that we have saved the 1.5-degree target, that we are still on track. but since then, science has told us that there is a 50% chance in the coming five years that we will overshoot the 1.5 degrees. climate change is happening and maybe sometimes it is having less attention because of all of the other developments but climate change is not taking a break. it's not pausing. it is continuing on a day-by-day basis. and we are on our way to overshoot the 1.5 degrees if we do not act vigorously and that is at stake. we have complicated files. we have complicated amendments. but what is at stake is whether we are willing to keep the 1.5-degree target alive, that is at stake today, and that's behind the very complicated and technical amendments. and then every time when i hear colleagues talk about a balanced approach, we need to do a balanced approach – for what exactly? for our industry, our industry needs clarity. our industry asks for clarity. they want to know where we are going. and that's what we are going to deliver here. we need to deliver clarity to our industry. when we are talking about a balanced approach, is that for the innovative ones? is the innovative industry being supported? free allowances is a fossil subsidy, it's a fossil subsidy for the laggards, and it's playing against our innovative industry that we want to keep within europe. that's at stake. someone who is taking a jump to go for green steel now sees that its competitor, its fossil competitor, is still getting subsidies. and when we are discussing the end of free allowances, we're not discussing that because there's no alternative. there is an alternative in place, which is called the carbon border adjustment mechanism, and we are discussing the ending of free allowances way beyond that date. so no one is saying, let's stop that before we have an alternative. it's not at stake. and when we are talking about a balanced approach for social, for employees, what is the balanced approach? because climate change will hit the poorest the most. the only way to achieve social justice is by achieving climate justice. and that is at stake. so, dear colleagues, when at the beginning of our term, we declared the state of climate emergency, how serious were we? we need to deliver now. we need to deliver on clarity for the markets. we need to deliver on support for our innovative companies and not the laggards. we need to deliver on social justice. that's at stake today. a balanced approach – let's keep our climate in balance.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, colleagues, i bring you this article from the newspaper mediapart, which documents how total's backstage lobbying in the 1990s caused us to lose 30 years of climate action. thirty years of delay because of the culpable weakness of european policies at the time, which gave up a real tax on fossils. thirty years wasted, which today puts a knife to our throat, when we have only three years to act, according to the ipec. it is in this context that the vote on the european climate package tomorrow must be understood. because, actually, 30 years later, when i read that article, i thought that the same guilty mistake might be repeated. as you know, we in the left group in the european parliament already regret the weakness of this climate package, whose objective and means are not even in line with the paris agreements, and which continues to rely on market mechanisms. but these small steps are clearly still too much for some, and they are threatened, as they were thirty years ago, by the lobbying. i am rather surprised, none of us here has spoken about it - it is a bit of an elephant in the room - but as meps we are all beset by increasingly alarmist and false messages that predict more or less the end of the world and a rain of locusts if the climate package is passed. i've brought you some examples of the emails we get: here's an email from easyjet and ryanair, who want to make us believe that penalizing aviation's carbon emissions is likely to increase them; the president of the fnsea denies the climate cost of chemical fertilizers; the metal lobby, on the other hand, wants to sanctify their right to pollute for free. let me just say one last thing: for the car manufacturers, this would be more or less the apocalypse with the end of the combustion engines... so you get the idea: all the polluters are out to continue to rot the planet, to feed their shareholders. and the right wing and the far right, this morning, were religiously resuming their arguments and amendments. so i'm going to ask you a fairly simple question, colleagues: are you going to do what those people did in the 1990s, who gave in to the pressure of the fossil-saving lobbies and wasted thirty years of climate action? the choice we have made as the left group in the european parliament is clear: we want to believe in our future rather than in the lies of the lobbies, because this time we really, really cannot afford to wait another thirty years.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. on 14 july last year, the european commission presented the proposals for the 'fit for 55' package. on the exact same day, there was this terrible flood in central europe. and when you, mr timmermans, presented the package, i got a message on my mobile phone that a firefighter had drowned in my constituency. in other parts of germany, 130 people have drowned in a single district. we see drought and heat in europe. the forests are dying, the people are suffering from the heat. it's not just a matter of small island states and polar bears anymore. climate change is our problem. and if we do not act, it is above all an insoluble problem for our children and grandchildren. that's why we have to work hard. with this package, we're quadrupling our efforts per year. we have reduced by 25%. we are the only major region in the world that has reduced, but that is not enough: in just eight years we want to add another 30%. the war in ukraine may force us to adjust points; esther de lange has spoken about this, and i fully support the short-term approach. but the goal, as the epp, is one we do not want to give up. because our dependence on russia, the high prices that we all suffer from, and above all low-income families at the moment, and climate change have the same cause: our dependence on fossil fuels. and that's why we have to get off. the emissions trading, which i was able to monitor as rapporteur, is the core of fit for 55 and both the ipcc and the un keep saying that we urgently need a carbon price. i would like to thank all those who have helped - my colleagues, of course, but above all the staff who have worked far beyond the normal level. thank you very, very much for that. we've accomplished a lot together. we are including shipping in the emissions trading scheme, and that is also very necessary. ships - as one colleague put it - often burn the last of the dirt, and they have so far hardly been included in european environmental and climate law. we want the money to be spent on innovation and not disappear in the general budget, so we need targeted support through a fund. we are raising ambition in industry and power generation significantly. but we also give the companies that are starting out the confidence to plan and the backing to take action. those who invest in climate neutrality must not be driven out of europe. we want to decarbonise european industry, not to de-industrialise europe. we are creating a new ets for the heating and transport sectors. and it is important to me personally, mr vice-president, that we have also partially extended the scope to include process emissions. this means that the company with the best idea wins the competition, not the company with the lowest carbon price nationally. it is painful for me that i had to compromise on private consumption. we are placing a very, very heavy burden and responsibility on the member states. the member states must now do much more in the framework of effort sharing than if we had decided on ets 2 in its entirety. it is a great responsibility to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area. but i'm willing to compromise. i stand by the compromise we reached at large, by a three-quarters majority in the envi. and there are things in it that we really have to bear together now in front of the council: the price ceiling, the greater responsibility for the gas and oil companies - it is incredible how they are again ripping off at the moment when people are already in need; we have to get in there. and we're moving the climate social fund forward. so people will get support first, and then eventually the price will come - support first, that's important. again, my friends, what we're deciding this week is a giant step. there is no major industrial region in the world that is even remotely as ambitious and precise. this is not to be trifled with, but we owe it to our children and grandchildren.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the social climate fund, the european union will ensure that billions in investments are made available to citizens across europe. we are doing this in response to the challenges posed by climate change. we are turning away from dirty energy, both the polluting one, of course, but also the one coming from russia, we need to reduce the impact on our families and workers. in our work on this file, we are doing our best, and we have done our best, to see that the funds are targeted most towards those most in need. we have introduced a definition for energy poverty and mobility poverty. this is to ensure that funds reach these people and we want to see good data collected that will make our policy more effective. from the very beginning of this process we wanted to support sustainable investments on other measures. and we did that because we reduced our long-term dependence on fossil fuel and energy suppliers. citizens will finally be receiving cheaper energy bills. the social climate fund will work in practice by financing investments in housing, commercial buildings, transport. we want to see more insulation, more solar panels, more efficient electronic equipment, more accessible and affordable public transport. climate change brings with it serious challenges, challenges that we can combat through measures that will be financed by this fund. when we have more investments in energy efficiency, we reduce demand, and therefore we reduce emissions. but we also cut the electricity bills for our citizens, which are already burdened by inflation. and we will do this through the social climate fund because, madam president, the transition to climate neutrality needs to be social. we therefore stress that local and regional authorities must play a crucial role throughout the process. to have a greater impact, we want the measures to be created with the contribution of both government organisations, but also that of civil society. but we want local authorities to be involved also at the implementation and evaluation stage of the measures that this fund will come to finance. we are experiencing very difficult times. the cost of living is rising dramatically. we are seeing the impact it is having on our citizens. when implementing climate policy we must ensure that no one is left behind. that the most vulnerable are protected. that is what we have tried to do with this fund, both myself and my colleague esther, but also the shadow rapporteurs coming from all the political groups. it was a pleasure working with all of you. thank you very much, we were a really good team, and i think we managed to send a balanced report in relation to the social climate fund.
rapporteur. – madam president, i think, david, you thanked me in the end. but my maltese is not perfect. but i would like to thank you as well as i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs that have been working in two committees in the empl committee and the envi committee on this dossier. and, madam president, i have to say that in all my years in the european parliament, this was one of the most exotic ones, in a sense that we had one of the weirdest majorities possible on this dossier, for example, the idea to really focus the spending more on investment measures rather than general income support. this was something that was supported in particular by the epp, the greens and id, and not the parties in between. so in the beginning we had some challenges to actually reach an agreement, but i think we did. we did in the end also because renew joined the effort, s&d joined the effort to make sure that we do several things. we target spending as much as we can on these real investment measures. if i help you pay your bill, i help you once. if i help you to insulate your house, i help you for the longer term. so parliament was very keen to make sure that most of the spending goes towards these more structural investment measures. then we were also keen – i know that the distribution of funds is already taking into account the fact that some member states will need more support from the social climate fund than others – but we were very keen to increase this a bit to make sure that the poorest member states required slightly less national co-financing, and in particular when it comes to these structural investment measures. one thing that we didn’t manage to resolve in our very good cooperation at shadows level was the issue of small and medium enterprises. and for the epp, it is very clear that if you start ets 2 with commercial companies only, you will also have to do something for those commercial companies. and that means in particular smes, and in particular smes that are at risk of carbon leakage. so that will be the only amendment we would put forward on behalf of the of the epp. but i think here – and i have been very strict, i think with mr timmermans, saying that it was your group in the lead to actually make ets 2 smaller and it was your group therefore who landed us with a smaller social climate fund. but in the end we all signed up or at least the constructive parties signed up to this deal. so to start ets 2 with commercial companies only and leave the households for later and therefore have a slightly smaller social climate fund, but one where we found additional money by leaving some allowances on the side of the social climate fund rather than transferring them to the innovation fund. and i think we should now stand by this deal because what is on the table, i say to the commission, really is either the compromise that we reach or even less. i am afraid that that is the choice that we will have tomorrow when we vote. i think we should stick by the compromise that we have and then negotiate on that basis. we stand ready to do that. and again, thanks to all the shadows who helped us along.
rapporteur. – mr president, dear colleagues, climate change presents a global challenge and it has already affected the lives of people on all continents. it is very clear that global action and global cooperation is needed to mitigate the effects of climate change. aviation is one of the fastest—growing sources of greenhouse gas emissions. aviation accounts for 2—3% of global co2 emissions, and the long—term projections of aviation activity predict major increases in traffic. before the covid—19 crisis, the international civil aviation organisation forecasted that by 2050, international aviation emissions could triple compared with 2015. i believe that concrete and appropriate measures are needed to reduce aviation emissions in order to be in line with the union climate law, its commitments under the paris agreement. the european union is a global leader in the fight against climate change. but also, i would like to point out that the paris agreement climate commitments and environmental ambitions cannot be achieved by europe acting alone. concrete action and cooperation on a global level are necessary; accordingly, the eu will continue to lead by example in order to tackle climate change and align with the eu climate law. kolegice i kolege. ets aviation izvješćem usklađujemo zrakoplovni sektor s našim klimatskim ciljevima. međutim, unutar tog procesa moj je prioritet bio ponuditi rješenja za dekarbonizaciju sektora. svima nam je jasno da se moramo usredotočiti na naše klimatske ciljeve, ali isto tako ne možemo dopustiti da industrija podnese sav taj teret. moramo se usmjeriti na očuvanje mobilnosti i naše industrije. moj prijedlog rješenja su saf emisijske jedinice kojima bismo osigurali korištenje održivih zrakoplovnih goriva. i to smo uspjeli, osigurati 40 milijuna saf emisijskih jedinica dostupnih do 2030.,uz moguće produljenje tog poticaja do 2035. godine. inzistirala na tome da moramo ponuditi rješenje za dekarbonizacije u zrakoplovnog sektora ako želimo uskladiti taj sektor s našim klimatskim ciljevima. još jedna važna točka koju želim istaknuti jest činjenica da moramo osigurati da prihodi od dražbovanja emisijskim jedinicama budu vraćeni sektoru ako želimo vidjeti stvarni napredak. u okviru nacrta izvješća predložila sam da se značajan iznos inovacijskog fonda odnosno klimatskom investicijskom fondu namijeni projektima podrške inovacijama i novim tehnologijama u zrakoplovnom sektoru, naglašavajući područje održivih zrakoplovnih goriva te smo uspjeli osigurati da prihodi od dražbovanja u sklopu inovacijskog odnosno klimatskog investicijskog fonda budu namijenjeni zrakoplovnoj industriji. također, svi smo svjesni činjenice da se od ukupnog iznosa emisijskih jedinica u zrakoplovnom sektoru veliki dio dodjeljuje besplatno. postupno ukidanje besplatnih emisijskih jedinica i prelazak na stopostotno dražbovanje emisijskim jedinicama unutar sektora je realnost. ne možemo od toga pobjeći, ali moramo odabrati pravi tempo kojim ćemo to učiniti. trenutno ukidanje besplatnih emisijskih jedinica definitivno nije rješenje jer moramo dati određeno vrijeme našem sektoru, posebno uzimajući u obzir sadašnje okolnosti. želim spomenuti i emisije koje nisu co2 kao važan dio ovog izvješća, budući da one pokrivaju dvije trećine emisija iz zrakoplovstva. naša je odgovornost i njih uzeti u obzir. željela bih se dotaći i još jednog dijela, a to je nekoliko riječi o izvješću corsia notification, koje je obrađeno kao zasebno izvješće. sretna sam što mogu reći da smo ga uspjeli tretirati kao tehničko izvješće u europskom parlamentu. na kraju, kolegice i kolege, budimo svjesni naše odgovornosti. pred nama je klimatski izazov koji postavlja temelje za reizgradnju i transformaciju. kolegice i kolege, ovo je naša odgovornost. uzmimo je ozbiljno.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of combating climate change knows no borders and has an impact right from the start on our ambition, on the goals and objectives we set, on the economic impact and the social impact. it requires support for our citizens, for the modernisation of our economy. we cannot of course deindustrialize, and for that we need european funds, funds which, mr vice-president, must be included in the budget of the european union, with the necessary amounts to support the most vulnerable citizens, to support businesses and to support all the territories. it is not enough to say, we need action, and for that we also need to have our own resources, revenue within the budget, for the budget, such as the border carbon emissions adjustment mechanism and also the new mechanism and the extension of the market for emission allowances.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, mr vice-president, madam minister dear chrysoula dear colleagues, every day we look with horror at the devastating effects of climate change. for decades, leaders have denied themselves blame and responsibility because they lacked courage. but, since 2019, we have started the necessary reforms and efforts: we have declared a climate emergency, we have negotiated for months so that the big polluters pay more and the most vulnerable pay less, we are the ones who will finally implement this carbon tax at the borders, because it is no longer acceptable that products imported from the other side of the world deviate from our environmental rules, and we have ensured that the recovery plan, which invests so much money in the ecological transition, will not be reimbursed by citizens, but by those who do not pay their fair share of taxes today. the big polluters will contribute, and that's what tax justice and climate justice are. so our promises are kept here. so let's be very clear: today is the day we're going to see who really wants to save the planet. we will note that those who oppose this transformation - for whatever reason - will be on the wrong side of history. i have no doubt that they will be in the minority in this house because, after all, who really wants to destroy the planet on which we live? who really believes that our businesses will thrive in an environment that is struggling to survive? ladies and gentlemen, the climate emergency is everyone's business. it must not suffer from conservatism, demagogy or manipulation. this week will mark a historic turning point in the fight against climate change. let us be proud to make europe the world leader in this field.
drafting of the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. thank you, mr president. - i'm not going anywhere. mr president and representative of the council, allegorically, today we want to start a three-wheeler to go to the targets of the package, including aviation, which i think is the case. but the package is stronger against russia in the form of a war in ukraine, and it is stubborn to start the roll-out without adjusting it, and it is not wise therefore, to implement a short-term and medium-term tactical package. we can, if we don't, not achieve our long-term goals. there is no doubt that energy security is a crucial issue at the moment and if we do not turn away from russian energy resources in the short term and the war in ukraine is not short, the environmental situation on the continent will be endangered. the same applies to the supply of resources in several industrial sectors and also to production capacity, and therefore affects these objectives. and these short-term actions in the context of war have social consequences, and if they are not accompanied by environmentally benign goals, then the public reaction can cause anger and political consequences in many of the european union's member states with the ensuing consequences. let's be careful!
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. mr president, commissioner, as we all know, the countries of the south are those which have historically contributed the least to climate change, but which, on the contrary, suffer the most from its consequences. this is a global and systemic injustice, which the union cannot ignore, especially since our industrial system has been, over the centuries, one of the main causes of this temperature rise. at the copenhagen cop in 2009, the international community pledged €100 billion to finance the fight against climate change in the global south. thirteen years later, there is still time to achieve this goal. today we are taking an important step towards achieving this commitment, and it is an honour for me to have contributed to it, as rapporteur for an opinion on a report on the reform of the european emissions trading system, from the deve committee. because, in fact, in this opinion of deve a proposal was born which incorporates the report of envi and which, we hope, will be approved today. the text also proposes that eu member states should devote a minimum percentage of the revenue from auctioning co2 emission allowances to adaptation policies, mainly to combat climate change in low and middle income countries, which will increase in the coming years as free emission allowances are gradually reduced. we welcome the fact that one of these percentages, which was 5% in the original deve commission proposal, has been increased to 10%. we are not yet able to calculate everything exactly, but we are talking about about 2 billion euros. although this is a considerable figure, it is still not enough. nevertheless, we celebrate this important step and at the same time, in the immediate future, we will continue to demand further action to go further in the areas of climate finance in the countries of the south.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, what we are about to vote on is indeed a step forward in environmental and social terms. so thank you to the environmentalists who have been calling for years for the introduction of a carbon tax at the borders and for action to help the most disadvantaged. but €25 billion is the profit made by polluting industries in europe by reselling free emission allowances at the expense of the climate and our health, and neither the reports of scientists, nor the appeals of citizens, nor the condemnations of several member states for climate action change anything. the absurdity of the system is that not only will we continue to fatten up polluting companies with free polluting rights, but we will give nothing to those who have invested in the environment and have decarbonised their production. and it is not a recital in the text that will change anything. today we are being offered the end of free emission allowances for 2032, 2034, 2036 even... as if the climate emergency could wait 14 years. this is crazy! 1025 days: that's what we actually have to change everything. so, no more of these discounted reports! no more false excuses! we have a choice today between ecology and chaos: make no mistake about it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, not exceeding €2 per litre of petrol and 2°c of warming: these should be our two main priorities. however, the bulk of the amendments from the right and the many recommendations, not always very subtle, from the lobbies only speak of emission quotas, these rights to pollute distributed free of charge to the sectors most harmful to the climate, such as aviation or the steel industry. if we listen to the lobbies, we should continue to flood the carbon market with these pollution rights, so as not to damage the competitiveness of companies, and all this at the expense of the climate. but despite lobbying, we have held our ground here in parliament with a first victory and a compromise that proposes to delay the carbon market for fuel and heating for households to at least 2029. the inclusion of transport and buildings in the carbon market would have only increased the already excessively high gasoline and heating bills. we say: the carbon market is not the answer. to leave the key to our climate policy to market fluctuations is to go straight into the wall. instead, what we need is planning, both to achieve our climate goals, but also to make sure the transition is as fair as possible. it is precisely in this spirit that i was responsible for negotiating for my group the social climate fund, a tool that can be improved, but which allows the question of the costs of transition to finally be put on the agenda. for the more modest, you have to make do with both ends: neither the price of petrol nor the temperature.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! the left's climate position, it's based on tough objectives and regulations. it's about creating decent jobs. it is based on the principle that climate change must be fair. the polluter pays, and the polluter pays the most. on the left, we also accept the facts and listen to what the science says. for example, we know that we have a planet minus one. but the right in this parliament does not listen to science, and you behave as if we had two, three or four planets. now that we have the most important climate vote of this term, perhaps of this decade, the right-wing group is choosing to lean against the climate deniers on the far right and run over the environmental committee. it's a shame, you know? it's a betrayal. nor should the liberal group, nor should they turn to the epp and the extreme right-wing climate deniers and make a deal and run over the environment committee. it is a very concrete matter which has been raised by colleagues here. the ambitions of the emissions trading system. are we going to get the paris agreement or are we not going to get it? that's what we're voting on tomorrow. so, to the climate tariffs that i've been working on with our rapporteur chahim. we are proud to have this instrument in place, but the phasing out of free allocations must be speeded up. we have to fight that battle. last term, mps on the right were ranked as dinosaurs. i guess we can all agree that the dinosaurs went extinct. this time you have to decide. are you going to stand with the future? you're gonna be on the team that saves the planet? or are you going to betray me this time too? the vote tomorrow, it concerns all of us. stand up for us.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the fight against climate change is our primary concern. at the same time, i am concerned about the way we are going to get to the other side: some of the measures proposed lack sound calculations and a sustainable vision. is that why the social climate fund was proposed? europe is watching with alarm as the cost of fuel and fuel prices in the member states rise dramatically. it is unfortunate that we are now coming up with a proposal or proposals that add to these burdens. the social climate fund can only partially and temporarily reduce these. responsible legislation and climate protection can only be pursued with adequate and substantiated impact studies, in agreement with the member states, so that the biggest polluters pay. the burden of the citizens cannot continue to grow! the only member state in europe where this has not happened is hungary.
madam president, mr vice-president, fit for 55 has already been published and will have a very important impact on society, the economy, citizens, trade, the international balance once it is adopted. the balance must be struck between two needs, namely reducing emissions and ensuring economic competitiveness and, by implication, jobs. reducing emissions is not achieved with ambition, it is achieved with innovation, with new technologies. jobs, economic competitiveness are not secured with targets, passwords, or facebook, they are secured with measures adapted to the economic reality and the global context. in the absence of similar measures worldwide, the union's competitiveness will suffer. the fit for 55 provisions have already caused and will inevitably cause cost increases, price increases. i do not think that anyone is prepared to bear these increases, not the mep, not the citizen of the east, or the west, the north, or the south. the votes in the tran, envi and itre committees showed that there were different opinions and different majorities. there are many situations where the result is the opposite. ladies and gentlemen, the 55% target must be met. but there are different paths. i ask you to consider all the options proposed in the plenary amendments and to vote on provisions based on the reality of the economy and society.
madam president, mr executive vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no ecological transition without social justice. it's our compass. and this social climate fund is proof of that. from the revision of the european carbon market to the introduction of the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders, the adoption of this climate package will not be without consequences, and there can be no strong climate ambition, as we are proposing today, without being on the side of the most vulnerable and the most modest. and this fund will be an instrument to combat both poverty and greenhouse gas emissions. our objective must be twofold. on the one hand, to provide financial support now to those most exposed to the energy crisis and, on the other hand, to support them in the next decade to invest and finance this transition. it's a lever for investments in the human dimension, to insulate our buildings, whether we are owners or tenants, to change our boilers, to promote access to soft mobility. energy cheque, renovation bonus, aid for the purchase of electric vehicles, financial support for public transport. this is exactly what the fund will finance. and as early as 2024. and the rules have to be clear. european money must go to those who really need it. the most modest households, the very small businesses, our craftsmen and small traders. while some, and specifically at the national level, declare themselves champions of purchasing power, they will vote tomorrow against a european fund that combines climate ambition with social justice. we, on the other hand, will keep our promise to leave no one behind and take europe forward on all fronts.
madam president, this climate package should be called a degrowth package, but that objective is not being achieved. the european union's climate ambitions will apply without distinction and whatever the cost. at the moment, no impact study has been able to demonstrate the real effects of such regulation, but it is conceivable that they will be very severe. however, you are aware of the particular sensitivity of the ecological transition to the daily lives of europeans. the commission has a sense of timing. at a time when ukraine is becoming the epicentre of an energy war and there are fears of a serious food crisis in the world, you do not want to slow down the pace of reforms in this context, but on the contrary to accelerate it. whole sections of european industry are at stake, hundreds of thousands of jobs in the automobile, aviation, shipping and so on. at the same time, the taxonomy debate is moving towards excluding nuclear energy from european funding. the urgent need is to lighten the burden of environmental regulations and cushion the soaring cost of energy, not to participate in it. the european union has already reduced its emissions by 34% in 15 years, while it generates only 8% of global emissions. his efforts alone will not be enough. if other countries don't follow suit, despite the claims of the border carbon adjustment mechanism, their emissions will offset our reductions and our sacrifices will have been in vain.
madam president, mr vice-president timmermans, first of all i have to say that i appreciate the great effort you are making to ensure that european industry, on the one hand, has to cope with this climate transition and achieve the climate goals that we have all set ourselves and, on the other hand, obviously retain its competitiveness. and i also appreciate your candor when you said that we must always be careful not to leave anyone behind and that at the same time we must take care of all those european citizens who are more concerned about the end of the month than the end of the world. the two files, both ets and cbam, are very important because, on the one hand, they are necessary instruments to achieve these objectives and on the other hand, we are addressing and have a measure that will put an end to a practice that does not mean 'level playing field', does not mean equal market conditions, because some pay climate taxes, carbon dioxide certificates and others do not, and then these measures must be taken. however, i have great reservations and for romania it is unacceptable that the elimination of free work that would strongly and very dramatically affect the romanian steel industry should be done so suddenly. we're all for a smooth transition. we are for a measure that is balanced in how we deal with the introduction of the ets for buildings and transport and we believe that at this point this measure would only worsen market conditions. and with internal combustion engines, we believe that we should let the market and technology decide and not ban those technologies that contribute or would produce zero carbon dioxide emissions.
mr president, we are at a moment of truth for the european union, and we can see that today the will is being contested in the comfort of habit. we are deciding this week whether or not to keep the promise that was ours - the promise of the green deal, the promise to save the climate. and where are we? drought, floods, storms, temperatures that take human lives and make birds fall from the sky, and here in the european union, member states that shine by their absence - i am thinking in particular of the french presidency - and a european parliament whose hand trembles at the time when it is necessary to vote on concrete, ambitious policies that definitively turn their backs on productivism and fossil fuels. so i ask you, ladies and gentlemen: how do you expect to be judged by future generations, of course, but also by the present ones, and especially by europeans? do you want to be the ones who have given in, who have abdicated to the lobbies by exempting more and more polluting companies from participating in the climate effort? or do you want to be the ones who decarbonize european industry, end the combustion cars and pollution deaths? i ask you, do you want to be the ones who, in the face of history, have done everything to save the earth by ensuring social justice? if the answer to that last question is yes, then reject the lobby amendments and vote for the climate.
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, there are moments that count in a mandate and i believe that this is one of them because for years europe has allowed all the imbalances of globalisation to take hold. and when it became concerned about the environment, it set increasingly stringent standards for all those who produced in our countries. and these constraints eventually set up a form of unfair competition. we have not promoted ecology, but we have mainly weakened our economy. for the first time we are going to make the single market a lever we have built to protect our environment. tomorrow, those who import into europe will also have to pay for their carbon emissions. and by imposing this mechanism at our borders, well, we're pushing the world towards cleaner production and we're also giving oxygen back to our own industries. this is the awakening that we've been waiting for. simply imposing constraints on those who work in europe is not progress for the environment, it is a problem for the environment. it's not about stopping pollution, it's about exporting pollution and becoming addicted to the model we refuse. now, ladies and gentlemen, we must see this awareness through to the end. we will not build a cleaner industry without european industrialists. and at a time when they need to invest the most, we have no right to take away their resources.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam minister, the ecological challenge is one of the major challenges of our century. we all agree that the natural resources of our planet will not be sufficient to support the growing world population. this is not a political issue, but one which concerns all of humanity, and particularly the younger generations, who will be the first to suffer the full consequences of global warming and who will have to face the great challenge of the energy transition. the latest ipcc report is both enlightening and alarming. this immense challenge should lead us to rethink our production methods. but rather than challenge the great shift in the world brought about by the proliferation of free trade agreements, the european union is trying to make ordinary citizens pay for the disastrous ecological consequences of its economic choices. in your view, they must be subjected to an ever more intense regulatory and fiscal whiplash because they are guilty of not living in sufficiently well insulated dwellings or because they are forced to use their car to get to work. the constant tightening of european standards for motor vehicles and, tomorrow, the complete ban on cars with combustion engines will transform the car into a luxury good for many of our compatriots, even though a single supertanker that sails the oceans of the planet emits as many fine particles as a million cars in france. it is not the taxpayer's job to pay to compensate for any of the harmful effects of your economic policy. it is this very policy that must be changed by the reappropriation of the premises, short circuits and economic patriotism. the european union is not going down that road. while you are deploying your treasures of ingenuity to tap into the pockets of the lower and middle classes, you continue to negotiate free trade agreements with mexico, chile, brazil and even australia and new zealand. while you blame european citizens, you continue to allow our factories to be relocated to the other side of the world, thus depriving us of any means of controlling environmental production standards. while you are drawing up grandiloquent climate roadmaps, you still forbid, in the name of free and undistorted competition, the privileging of local economic actors in the award of public contracts. so we still live in a world where we can give our children in the school canteens of normandy apples that came from chile. european countries are among the most virtuous in the fight against global warming. in thirty years, the eu has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by one third. together, our 27 countries emit three times less co2 into the atmosphere than china alone. thanks to nuclear power, france is by far one of the most virtuous countries in the world. the ecological transition must not be punitive or sacrificial. it must instead be a means of opening up new markets for our industry, of restoring the local economy and thus bequeathing a sustainable france and continent to future generations.
mr president, mr rapporteur, we needed one last proof of your total disconnection from reality and your radical ethnocentrism: you bring it here with these violent standards, which are taking the automobile manufacturer, our industries, and therefore the whole european economy by ricochet. with you, the european union has become a union of big cities, and nothing else. your electorate, half of whom depend on the combustion engine for their daily needs, are grateful to you for these new restrictions, which make their commutes from home to work more and more expensive and longer, without providing a reliable solution. our industries have made the greatest sacrifices to please the european dictates. but for parliament, and especially for you, mr rapporteur, nothing is ambitious enough. you are even making your objective clear: to eliminate all combustion engines within an unbearable timeframe and to make electric cars available to everyone, whatever the cost. so it's easy for you, who only know the plane, the taxi, the train... but it is hard to access for everyday workers. the climate emergency obviously requires new and ambitious decisions, but why is it always europeans, and especially the most modest, who have to bear the burden? go live in the country with the liberal nurses, the craftsmen or the merchants. the world is not confined to brussels or strasbourg. you know that to produce electric batteries, rare metals must be extracted from mines in china, the congo and bolivia, under disastrous environmental and human conditions. the text never mentions the thousands of peasants who were forcibly displaced after seeing their farms polluted with fine dust. this is shameful! the text never mentions the excessive water consumption associated with extraction. your policy is totally hypocritical. the european union, which teaches the whole world lessons in humanism, wants to shift the pollution from our big cities to the third world. in france, these new standards have spawned the yellow vest uprising, which is on the verge of toppling the macron government. your decisions will have consequences. it's time you finally acted in the interests of your own constituents.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam president of the commission, thank you for being with us in this institution to speak on an important subject. the rule of law is the cornerstone of our democracy, the cement of our society. the european commission is the guardian of the treaties and the parliament is the watchdog. that is why we are making it clear, including to the members of the council, that it is a political mistake to approve the polish recovery plan as it stands at this stage. to give in to the blackmail of the polish government is a political mistake. for my group and for many others with whom we have signed several letters, sent several resolutions, held several debates, the conditions that have been set are clear, preconditions and not vague milestones. these milestones that rest a few times and that we now consider insufficient, not to say cosmetic. in my group's view, the judgments of the court must be fully and completely implemented, including the primacy of european law. otherwise we will have no choice but to make further appeals here in the european parliament. in my group, there is no question of spending a single euro before the polish judiciary is independent. this has always been clear from the majority in parliament, including in your own commission, madam president. if even one euro is spent before the restoration of the rule of law, we will be able to legitimately use a number of political, legal and institutional levers and levers at our disposal. this debate will of course take place, since this debate on the rule of law is fundamental to our parliament. finally, as our group has repeatedly said, direct management of european funds is the best solution and i would really like your services, madam president, to study this management of the delegated funds in detail to see if there are any possibilities if these conditions are not respected. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my political group and my whole political family will always stand against the polish government's deviations, but above all and certainly on the side of the polish people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president of the commission, like many of my colleagues, and if i understand well also many of your commissioners, i consider that your decision to approve the polish recovery plan is a political mistake and an unacceptable renunciation. the question was simple. what concrete progress has the pis government made towards returning to the rule of law since october, the month of october, that is, when you yourself set three clear conditions for a green light? have the independent judges sanctioned by the government been reinstated? no, i'm not going. has the polish government dissolved the disciplinary chamber which is cutting off the rations of judges who apply european law? no, i'm not going. has the polish government stopped its judicial reform that allows it to place party members in the judiciary? no, not yet. clearly, madam president, the conditions are not right for a single euro to be paid to poland, as the most basic democratic principles are still being flouted. the independence of the judiciary, i have mentioned, freedom of the press, the rights of all, and especially of women. the european commission cannot turn a deaf ear to the calls from democrats all over europe to bring the dictatorship apprentices to heel. it must honour its primary mission: to uphold the rule of law and above all to protect our democracies. madam president, it is your responsibility to the polish men and women who fight every day for their freedom. i will be uncompromising, as will my whole group, in the face of the polish government's excesses. we were elected in 2019 to fight illiberalism and certainly not to support it.
i'm the reporter. mr president, war is back in europe. this terrible sentence, we did not know, until a few months ago, that we would have to say it. we are not at war with russia, but we are at war because of russia. what does that mean? that we help ukraine. that we need to help him more. to provide him with even more military, financial, humanitarian, political, moral support. yes, i know. we must weigh each word we speak, each action we take, and ask ourselves what is morally acceptable. morales (gue/ngl). - (es) mr president, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply. ukraine is already an honorary member of our union by the blood shed to defend its territory and to defend our freedoms. it's an honor for us that she's running. he belongs with us. but there is one thing we cannot do, and that is to tell ukraine what it should or should not accept. because we did not send troops alongside the ukrainian army, we simply do not have the right to dictate to ukraine how it should behave; let's not forget that. we have a duty to draw the consequences of the return of war to our continent so that we can better protect our fellow citizens. and first we must learn from our failures. because yes, the invasion of ukraine is a sign that we have failed. if we had admitted ukraine to nato, it would not have been attacked. those who opposed it were wrong. if we had reacted more strongly to the russian aggression against georgia, the annexation of crimea and the war in donbass, if we had not looked away when 21,000 civilians died in aleppo under russian bombs, russia would not have believed that we would let it attack ukraine. we said, "good for you". we deliver weapons to ukraine: this is our duty. we should have done it sooner! the european peace facility is proving its usefulness every day: we started it before the start of hostilities, when kiev was already threatened, but we were still pinching for a few million euros of non-lethal equipment! are the member states doing all that is necessary even today? are they doing it fast enough? i'm afraid the answer is variable, to put it politely. for some, the question is how to replenish their stocks: let's deal with it. let us work together to buy the weapons we or our partners need. what we have done for vaccines - buy together and produce in europe - let's do it for the equipment that will protect europeans. the commission has made initial proposals, and they are moving in the right direction, even if it is only the beginning. personally, i propose that we go further and move towards a 'buy european act' for military equipment. our sovereignty also depends on it, our sovereignty and our credibility. what can we say about credibility three months after the war in ukraine began? the european union has adopted six sets of sanctions against russia: an unprecedented firmness in the face of unprecedented aggression. we'll have to keep going for the duration and stick together. yes, but what exactly? confusing unity with unanimity costs us. we are moving at the pace of the most reluctant of the 27 member states. the oil embargo, how long has an overwhelming majority of us been calling for it? how long did it take for the council to adopt it unanimously? this unanimity rule must be abandoned. that is what this parliament thinks. this is what the citizens who spoke at the conference on the future of europe expect. this is what the recommendation that david mcallister and i have drawn up together logically requires. one more word, one last. denmark has just joined the europe of defence, and i want to express my warm thanks to the danish people for this choice. finland and sweden want to join nato. i fully support this approach and i solemnly call on the turkish president to stop obstructing it. until then, stockholm and helsinki will be able to count on the full solidarity of the other members of the european union under article 42 (7) of our treaty. if you needed proof that european defence and nato are not contradictory but complementary, here it is.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, as was the case with the covid crisis, the european union and ms loiseau, emmanuel macron's spokesperson in this parliament, are using the war in ukraine to create a european super-state. solidarity with the ukrainian people must not make us forget another reality. you are sacrificing nations to achieve a federalist project. you do this without consulting the people, by deciding on sanctions that will devastate our economy. you do this by forgetting about the other nations, from china to india, from senegal to mexico, that refuse to align themselves with our policy. you do this by hiding your proposals from the french. after the destruction of the french diplomatic corps, you want to set up a ministry of foreign affairs of the european union. you now want to impose a brussels dictate on our defence industry. after the loss of our strategic independence at the hands of the european union, you want brussels to be able to embark on conflicts and sanctions policies without the rule of mandatory unanimity. you are practicing a real strategy of shock by exploiting the legitimate emotion of the war in ukraine. you are putting us at extreme risk by giving in to every injunction of the ukrainian president, who now comes to lecture in paris or lecture in berlin. i think you are dragging us into economic and geopolitical disaster through a policy of sanctions that no one outside the west wants to follow. while you insist on the application of multilateralism, you are building a system which isolates us in an almost exclusive relationship with the united states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have every reason to adjust our foreign, security and defence policy to the needs of the russian aggressive war against ukraine, which is contrary to international law. i am horrified to see that there are many elements of a full-blown fascist war of extermination. the united states is gratefully prepared to make a major commitment at the moment, but we as europeans must take precautions for the time afterwards when they are no longer prepared to do so much for our security. if we are now spending much more collectively on defence in national budgets, we must take advantage of the opportunities of european economies of scale in planning, in procuring the weapons we need. because we'll always be on the road together. interoperability is therefore important. but the most urgent thing is to supply ukraine with everything that is acceptable. and that is why i am expressly criticizing the attitude of the german chancellor, who is doing everything to delay and ensure that ukraine does not get what it needs in time for its defence. today in vilnius we have heard very evasive responses to this, for example to the spanish request to supply leopard 2. we all know that. germany must agree. but he claims he hasn't seen a request yet. that's a bureaucratic approach. every day of delay in this area is a day of profit for mr putin, and we must not allow that to happen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the war of aggression that vladimir putin is waging against ukraine reinforces the need for a europe of security, capable of ensuring peace. for defence investment to really build this european defence, we must make sure that it is coordinated, so as to close the european capability gap. more than ever, member states must put an end to the scattered initiatives that are aggravating the fragmentation of our budgetary resources for the sole benefit of the arms industry. finally, our europe of peace must invest politically and financially in arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation, at regional and global levels. the war affecting the ukrainian people must lead the member states to act more responsibly and to move towards a coherent and stabilising common security architecture.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, dear taoiseach dear micheál , thank you for your speech. let me assure you, on behalf of a very pro-european political family in this parliament, that we are proud of the irish government's strongly european agenda. as we can count on ireland to defend european unity, i wanted to reiterate, mr taoiseach, that the irish can count on renew europe and their members of parliament, barry andrews and billy kelleher, to defend their interests, because for some time now the interests of the irish have been the interests of europe. we are faced again, in spite of ourselves, with the consequences of brexit. we at renew europe know the concerns of the irish and northern irish people. i would be worried, too, if my market, my food or pharmaceutical security depended on boris johnson's consistency. but i will make it very clear that we stand by the northern ireland protocol. the irish are right, including northern ireland, where 56% voted for parties in favour of the agreement. perhaps accommodation is possible, but it is not unilaterally at westminster in breach, moreover, of international law to define what is or is not okay for the irish and for europe. europe, on the other hand, has only one word. she has only one word with the irish and the british. mr taoiseach, i take this opportunity to ask you about a subject which is important to our political group: the proposals from the citizens following the conference on the future of europe. we call for a convention to be held to amend our treaties if necessary. we believe that this is essential to finally introduce a legislative initiative in parliament and above all to put an end to a number of decision-making elements, in particular unanimity on certain points in the council. a state can no longer block decisions affecting 450 million europeans. so a question: what is the position of the irish government on these points and on the launching of this conference? you have answered a few questions, but we would like to hear a little more from you on this matter. thank you very much and, indeed, long live europe and long live ireland!
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, just a word to say that i share the concern of the president of the green group to work together on this text and to build something in the majority format with the pro-europeanists. but i'm in a different situation than you are. we shared the ambition, but we made the tactical choice of voting for this text and not joining the far-right votes for the rejection of this text. but we shared the same ambition. madam president, we will have a text back in committee, we will work on it. we want a pro-european majority. ambition is important. the legislation affects 450 million citizens over a 30-year period, with important objectives. so we will work together with all the pro-european groups that are able to find a compromise.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, i think we are clearly witnessing the most complete hypocrisy on the part of the right. who, who, gentlemen of the epp, voted with the far right? who voted with the far right to give power to the lobbies and delay the end of free quotas? who is responsible for climate denial today? that's you, that's you. so yes, we have made the choice to work together, to work together with the greens, to work together with the socialists and above all to work together with civil society to have a high level of ambition on the climate. you will bear the shame of this weather for years to come. yes, we will work, because, remember, friends, remember, colleagues, that the vote by the envi committee meant that free quotas would end in 2030. so let's work with the envi committee to get back to that level of ambition, because, clearly, we can't wait another 30 years.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission's proposals for attracting skills and talent to the eu are promising, especially the so-called talent partnerships with the countries of north africa. i just wonder why they're not extended to the entire african continent. these initiatives are described by the european commission as mutually beneficial. i consider this aspect, the mutual, very relevant. while it is important to attract talent and skilled workers to the eu, it is also crucial to ensure that there are clear benefits for the countries of origin. international cooperation must at all times be directed towards the creation of a more balanced world. partnerships must not result in a brain drain from developing countries to developed countries. they should lead to two-way mobility and scientific and technological cooperation. it is hoped that these talents, these skilled workers, will contribute to european economies, but also that they will bring experience and knowledge back to their home countries.
mr president, commissioner, the fragility of the european union's migration policies has created serious humanitarian and political problems, attracting unregulated flows and with a high risk of exploitation of migrants by illegal networks, and fuelling populist, xenophobic and radical anti-migration discourse in the union. the european union needs to attract legal immigrants to cope with its demographic winter, to ensure its ambition for energy and digital transition, and to address the shortage of skilled human resources in key areas such as tourism and health. the commission proposal, which i welcome, includes a more appropriate legislative framework and provides for the establishment of specific partnerships with third countries, promoting mobility between them for the purpose of work or retraining. the pilot project with ukraine has shown the opportunity and feasibility of the new platform. a partnership with africa, in the framework of a vision of partnership between equals, is essential to give practical awareness to what is set out in the eu-africa strategy and the post-cotonou agreement, which is awaiting ratification by the council. a partnership in this context, the establishment of pilot projects with the north african countries, inspired by the pilot project with ukraine, is a step that is urgently needed and also responds to some of the concerns discussed at the 41st acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, of which i am co-chairman, which was held in strasbourg in april this year.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there is no good policy that is not evaluated. how much is it? what's the profit? it's a cost-benefit evaluation upstream and downstream. the principle you apply is the same in all areas except immigration. it is the cologne syndrome: when it comes to immigration, we do not want to see the reality. why should we impose labour immigration on the whole of europe when, for example, my country, france, is experiencing mass unemployment? the question of competences can be settled by inter-european cooperation or by training. what about the ethical question of depriving emerging countries of their manpower and their educated elites? immigration is not a problem for you, or even an economic necessity, but a political and ideological project. our countries have reached a saturation point in terms of legal and illegal migration. you want us to believe that we're going to bring in doctors and engineers when in fact, with your immigration, we're ending up in the chaos of the stade de france.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, i welcome the proposal in principle. there are clear economic reasons to attract young, skilled and talented people to europe. i just want to warn you that this proposal should not be used in practice to cover up any economic migration that most of us consider illegal. that is, what will matter is the implementation and what kind of people will actually come here and whether they will not really burden the budgets of the member states of the european union, but will instead be a benefit, as they are called here. and we also need to implement these agreements in a way that the countries where these people are going to leave, they don't see this as a brain drain, and it's not good for those countries in the long run. no country can be satisfied with its intelligence and elite leaving in the long run. but let me also say, as the member for the czech republic, that the commission should pay more attention to helping the countries of central europe, which are, in my view, dealing very successfully with the problems of migrants from ukraine today. poland, the czech republic, slovakia, the baltics: they are dealing with these problems very intensely and the solutions they are implementing are, in my opinion, very good. among other things, it shows that the influx of people, especially from eastern europe, from war-torn ukraine, but also from belarus and other countries, is beneficial and long-term beneficial for europe. these are people who are culturally close to us, and we should also attract talent from this area to europe.
mr. chairman, please! legal immigration can bring enormous benefits to the union. it's a response to the labor shortages, the demographic challenges. it can contribute to the post-pandemic economic recovery and attract intellectual capital to the european union. legal immigration activities shall also contribute to combating the activities of smugglers and traffickers of human beings and to enhancing the protection of third-country workers by preventing their exploitation and protecting their rights. since the current legal arrangements have not fully achieved the objectives of legal immigration, the commission has announced a review of them. we need an effective harmonised legal framework. the process of legal immigration should be fully transparent while maintaining high standards. we need to make sure that information is easily accessible at every stage of the process. the announcement of the creation of an eu talent pool is also relevant. we need tools that allow us to better match competencies to employers' needs. talent partnerships will also be an important element of the european union's migration policy, allowing skilled workers to be integrated into the labour market and to strengthen cooperation on migration policy with our partners.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much. i’d also like to thank the honourable members for this debate, for their remarks, for their comments. and, of course, i would like to thank especially those who are looking at this very important theme we debated today with a comprehensive approach and with a comprehensive angle, because i think that is very important for understanding well what we are debating here. i think most of the honourable members who intervened clearly underline the need for a well-trained and skilled european workforce. and i would like to underscore that it does not go against the training and preparing our workforce in europe. but we also have to realise that we are in a global competition for talent; we see it from all global economies, and therefore we need to do our utmost to train our people well, but also to be very competitive in this talent management, in attracting talented people from abroad. and if you have any doubts, so please talk to our it industry, talk to our battery sector, talk to our business leaders or to our healthcare professionals. and they will tell you how hard it is to actually get good people with the proper skills to do the jobs. and i totally agree with ms arena’s and mr lenaers’ comments. ms al-sahlani also underlined the fact that when we are engaged in this effort, it has to be done in a fair european way. and, therefore, i also resent some of the remarks, which i consider to be totally inappropriate, racist, and i think we just have to watch our language much more when we speak in this house. another very important point made by ms al-sahlani and mr moreno sánchez was that if we are looking for our partnership with third countries, it has to be mutually benefiting. it has to be based on the circularity, and it has to be based on the active and conducive engagement, where we want to cooperate with them on migration policies, on talent, on avoiding the brain drain, but also to cover the issues which are sometimes very sensitive and cover irregular migration, because we need to look at it from the comprehensive perspective. i very much want to tell you that we listened very, very carefully to your remarks, to your comments. we want to thank you in the commission for your very active role in promoting this positive and constructive legal migration agenda. i think it was underlined by ms strik, mr boeselager and ms picierno that we need to have a good comprehensive legislation in this regard. i think that how important it could be nowadays was very well described by mr pospíšil or mr bielan or mr gallée in the case of ukraine. i think here we should of course be very proud of ukrainian people, but also of ourselves, because we managed in practically no time to adopt the solutions which helped to integrate ukrainian refugees, which opened the kindergartens, which create the conditions for them to work. we open our hospitals to make sure that they will get proper healthcare if needed. this just demonstrates how much we can do if we are properly mobilised. and i think that’s for us also a lesson learned on how we should look at this comprehensive package from this experience. i think that ms picierno and ms carvalho said that what we need is indeed what i think mr zorrinho described as a ‘triple win’: we need european societies, migrants and third countries all in the camp of winners. and therefore, i just would appeal to all of you, and i know that we will have the support of this house for adoption of our legislative proposals, of our migration package, to do it in an ambitious way and to do it within this mandate, because i think that also this debate confirms how important it is for the european union. so thank you very much, and thank you very much mr president, for giving me the floor.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! you continue to portray yourselves as human rights champions, but in reality you are acting in an immoral and hypocritical way when you want to bring the best educated citizens from the poorest countries into the eu. what the european commission and you want is not in the interests of these countries or the european union. the exclusion of skilled workers only deepens the problems in the countries of origin and eventually we will solve them. meanwhile, mass immigration to europe is threatening our culture, our social cohesion and is actually causing a significant financial cost to member states. i would like to remind you once again that the problems of the less developed countries must be solved locally. mainly through infrastructure development and economic investment. talent partnerships can be a tool for development, but we need to be careful to create jobs locally for returnees, not to promote brain drain. the real help is not to support mass immigration to europe, but to bring less developed countries into the world economic bloodstream and put them on a successful growth path. and it's time to finally accept that immigration is not the only solution to europe's demographic and labour market problems. other solutions exist, such as the hungarian model, which builds on a successful family and tax policy.
in writing. – the eu needs an overall framework as a union within which legal migration can be organised. the commission’s communication proposes how this should be done at a first stage. it is a realistic effort but is built on unstated premises that require deeper consideration. migrant movements are considered mostly, perhaps uniquely, from the economic perspective of labour flows. but their regulation must be grounded as well in human and social values, related to the recipient economies, certainly, but equally to the situation of individual migrants and the societies they are leaving. this is not the case in the proposal. it focuses on the mobility of single individuals as suppliers of labour. their families are only mentioned incidentally by way of ‘family reintegration’. migrant families feature not at all. in terms of skill transfer, the primary consideration is eu needs, though protocols for the exchange of labour market information feature extensively in the proposal’s second half. indeed, the emphasis on health care issues is indeed indicative. we risk promoting a model of development by which less advanced economies pump resources into educating doctors and nurses who on graduation leave to work in advanced economies. should european migration policy be promoting such a perverse cross-subsidisation?
the next item is the report by mr paulo rangel, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the right of initiative of parliament (2020/2132 (ini)) (a9-0142/2022). this item is being discussed under the same rules as those you know - the speaker's desk, blue cards, first rows may be filled - and i shall therefore come straight to the first speaker, the rapporteur, mr paulo rangel.
rapporteur. – mr president, dear vice—president, i would like to thank you for your presence, because i know that you made an effort to be here today. i would like to start by stating that i deeply regret that this debate isn’t acknowledged as a key debate by our parliament. the same applies to the previous debate on electoral law reform and the debate that we’ll have tomorrow on the triggering of article 48. if this hemicycle, if this institution, doesn’t acknowledge these kinds of debate as key debates, what should we expect from the other institutions when they evaluate and appreciate our constitutional claims? i made this clear to the presidency of this house and to the conference of presidents. a tradição constitucional dos estados-membros, assim como da europa e das américas, é dar aos parlamentos, por causa da sua legitimidade democrática direta, um direito geral de iniciativa legislativa. esta é, aliás, uma reivindicação histórica dos parlamentos: transformar o direito de petição ao rei, que era um direito de iniciativa indireto, num verdadeiro direito de iniciativa legislativa. todavia, a união europeia não honra ainda esta tradição constitucional e o parlamento tem alguns poucos direitos especiais de iniciativa, mas não tem um direito geral de iniciativa. tem apenas iniciativa indireta. é verdade que nós temos hoje no provedor de justiça, na lei eleitoral, nas comissões de inquérito, o direito de iniciativa, mas curiosamente estes direitos de iniciativa exclusiva do parlamento não são ainda reconhecidos como atos que exigem um procedimento legislativo mais importante do que aquele que é o da codecisão. mr president, dear colleagues, dear vice—president, the report that we’ll vote on tomorrow clearly shows the towering institutional architecture is ready for a different distribution of the right of initiative. to acknowledge a general and global right of initiative of the parliament is possible, desirable and responds to the constitutional aspiration of making the european union more democratically legitimate. i want to strengthen democratic legitimacy, representative democracy. if we want to strengthen them, then parliament has to have these rights. this commission has honoured the commitment of president von der leyen to always respond with a legislative act to parliament’s requests under article 25 on time, with only one or two understandable exceptions. but president von der leyen, she also says that she is in favour of a right of initiative to the parliament! president macron also says that! and even today the taoiseach of ireland said that in this hemicycle. so it’s time to act! our citizens, they really aspire for more. and the conference on the future of europe proposed several farther-looking proposals, the right of initiative is one of them. and this is the momentum. i must say that if there is a huge consensus, as it seems that there is, on this very issue of giving to the parliament this right of direct initiative, then we could have even a revision of the treaties only for that purpose, because there is a huge consensus in this respect. and so i think that a new distribution of legislative right of initiative should be acknowledged on our treaties, should be acknowledged by the institutions. and i have to say, and to add, this doesn’t imply that the commission doesn’t have its own right of initiative. it is of our tradition in all our countries that both the executive and legislative bodies have the right of initiative.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative in this matter, and i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative in this matter, and i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative in this matter. thank you for that.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations. mr president, thank you for your reminder about the conference on the future of europe. first of all, i am very happy to speak after my friend paulo rangel, because it is always very clear and we have principles that are reminded of. i am glad to be speaking to you, commissioner. you know how much we share a number of values: democracy and transparency are two words which i know are dear to you and also very dear to us. so let's try to make these words have new meaning. parliamentary work is changing, european democracy is changing and we must try to move into a more modern world. we have seen this with the citizens and this is what the juri committee was asking for. this was indeed recalled by the conference on the future of europe, in proposal 38, but we also asked, in the juri committee, that legislative action be taken on european citizens' initiatives. this is also a very important, new form of democracy. so this right of initiative, we all need it. the commission cannot be left to do everything. the council already has a de facto right of initiative on certain subjects, such as security or justice. but it also has the opportunity to work upstream with the commission. we don't have it. so let us give ourselves the opportunity to make progress, let us ensure that this right of initiative is recognised in parliament and, as paulo rangel has very well said, it does not take anything away from the others, it adds. that is the message we want to convey to you today, also on behalf of the juri committee. as a member of the afco committee, i naturally support what paulo rangel said.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, dear mr rangel, dear mr durand, indeed today we are discussing a report which is not only institutionally important for the commission, but also holds a great deal of personal significance for both president von der leyen and myself. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr rangel, for his work and also for the constructive spirit, which is reflected in the final report. i would like to underscore that the european commission is fully aware of the importance of the question of the right of initiative for the european parliament. so from the outset i want to assure you of the commission’s full commitment to continuing the positive cooperation with parliament and its committees in these matters. as you know, the president of the commission in her political guidelines stressed that she supports the right of initiative for the european parliament. just to quote her very precisely, she noted that when the european parliament, acting by a majority of its members, adopts resolutions requesting that the commission submit legislative proposals, the commission would commit to responding with a legislative act in full respect of proportionality, subsidiarity and better law—making principles. i hope you would agree with me that the commission has been taking this commitment very seriously. we have adapted our working method to ensure that the work on this resolution is coordinated on a weekly basis, and that the college of commissioners debates all replies to parliament’s resolutions adopted under article 225 of the treaty. i really would like to thank for his good cooperation antonio tajani, former chair of the ccc, and bernd lange, with whom we are working right now, because here i think that we really improved our coordination and cooperation, and also our upstream exchange of information. this good cooperation has also translated into very concrete figures. parliament has adopted 18 resolutions up to now, in this legislative period. the commission has already replied to all of them, with the last replies being sent yesterday. of the 18, the commission replied positively to 17 of them, and i think we all would agree that we have been quite glad that we do not have to respond to the last one because it was on mff contingency planning, and i think we’ve all been quite pleased and happy that we didn’t need it because we had the mff approved – as we all preferred, of course. i have to say that this positive tendency and trend is also reflected in the commission’s work programme, and i am glad that i can inform you that we have already delivered on almost all the legislative acts requested, with 90% already adopted, and we are actively working on those which are still outstanding. so this just underlines the commission’s willingness to work together with the european parliament. so i am very pleased that the report being put to a vote today acknowledges the commission for delivering on the president’s clear political commitment in relation to the follow—up to this resolution. we also would like to reassure you that we take good note of the call in the report for a more generalised, direct right of initiative of the parliament. it is clear that such a broader right would require treaty change. in the commission’s view, such an idea would require very thorough reflection on the respective competences of the institutions and the balance between them, as well as on the legal, procedural and practical implications. meanwhile, i would like again to underline the commitment that the commission will continue to honour the commitment to follow—up on article 222 resolutions, as we have done until now. i really would like to thank the honourable members and the juri and afco committees for the great cooperation in this matter, and i look forward to continuing our upstream coordination with the ccc.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, the european parliament must be recognised as a co-legislator. the commission's quasi-monopoly on legislation is harmful to our democracy and completely unjustifiable at this stage in our european history. the european union remains an immature democracy, and this is partly due to this democratic deficit. the european parliament is not yet a real parliament. it must become a law-making chamber, not just a place for debate that influences the law. we must also amend the 2010 framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission to hold the president of the commission accountable for her solemn commitment to work better with our representative institution. it was recalled that the citizens involved in the conference on the future of europe called for more efficient and more democratic institutions, and this elected parliament would be able to respond to the needs and demands of society. for example, parliament wanted to add gender-based crimes to the list of eurocrimes. and it's not by chance, it's because it's a necessity to help our countries to be more feminist and to take into account the suffering of more than half of the population. and even though, in constitutional matters, i am often alone with a few female colleagues, we still count. finally, it is also the parliament which best defends the rights and freedoms of citizens. it is this parliament which has shown political courage and perseverance to compensate for the inaction of the council and the commission on the rule of law, this parliament which has brought article 7 (1) against the hungarian government and is doing everything in its power to advance the procedure with the involvement of the five most democratic groups. and today, with a real right of initiative, the european parliament could activate article 7 (2) and put sanctions on the table.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i imagine that you also regularly receive calls from citizens and associations who say: there is a very important problem in europe, the european union should legislate. and since you are a member of the european parliament, go ahead! other and i imagine that at that point, like me, you feel a little bit embarrassed about having to explain that it's not that simple, and, more importantly, that you don't have the authority to write the laws. the european parliament is the only one in the world without a right of legislative initiative, i.e. it does not have the right to propose laws and has to wait for the european commission to propose and draft them. a european commission composed of officials and commissioners, who do not have the democratic legitimacy of universal suffrage that we have here, we in the european parliament, the only european institution elected by direct universal suffrage, the only democratically legitimate one, do not have the power to propose laws. we are parliamentarians and we are obliged to lobby the european commission to propose the laws that the citizens who elected us want to see adopted, hoping that her majesty the european commission will be kind enough to agree to propose a draft directive on the issues awaited and requested by our voters. you know, two years ago i decided to take this initiative and draft a proposal for a directive because i was tired of waiting for a proposal from the european commission which was announced and then delayed in arriving. it was about the issue of digital platform workers. i knew it didn't have any legislative value, but it was kind of my way of lobbying. you can't imagine the reactions: it was original, unexpected, disruptive... the fact that meps propose legislation should no longer be original or disruptive. no, it's the opposite. this is why the european parliament must be given a genuine right of general initiative.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 1973 a decision of the supreme court of the united states legalized the voluntary termination of pregnancy. in 1975, in france, the veil act, simone veil, the first president of our european parliament elected by direct universal suffrage, frames the decriminalisation of abortion. fifty years later, these hard-won rights, after the hard-fought battles of our mothers and grandmothers, are again being called into question in the united states and in many other countries, including europe. hence the importance of this resolution. this is why it is also important to inscribe this right to abortion once and for all in the european charter of fundamental rights. it's 2022, and the dominant archaic model, brilliantly described by the famous anthropologist françoise héritier, has persisted for millennia, involving control of women's bodies. how many women will still have to die in poverty and isolation or suffer because their basic rights are being violated?
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the debate today testifies to your continued important engagement on sexual and reproductive health and rights, and notably abortion. our focus must be both internal and external in countering the push-back. within the eu, the commission supports regular exchanges between member states and stakeholders on gender equality, such as under the mutual learning programme in gender equality. in the framework of the citizens, equality, rights and values programme, it continues funding civil society, including concerning social reproductive health and rights. we continue seeking ways to do more and to strategically respond to these global developments in policy and programming and in engagement with states and civil society.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we all asked ourselves what we would have done in the europe of the camps in 1942 or in the ussr of the gulag in 1947. these are questions that history leaves us with no answers. but there are other questions we can and must answer. what do we do today in the face of the camps of our time? what are we doing about the deportation of the uyghur people? what do we do with the "xinjiang police files" and the thousands of victims' faces that have emerged from the darkness of the concentration camps? what do we do in the face of rahile omer, a girl of only 15 years locked up and tortured in a chinese camp? the time has come for us to respond, to break the silence that allows crime, and to finally name the evil, as this resolution does: slavery, crimes against humanity, serious risk of genocide. let us speak and act, punishing the main culprits, banning from our markets the products of the enslavement of a people. history is watching and judging us. finally, let us live up to the principles we claim to uphold.
author. – madam president, the first visit of a un commissioner for human rights to china in 17 years took place two weeks ago. some of us, like raphaël glucksmann and others, we warned her in advance that she should not become the victim of chinese propaganda efforts. that’s exactly what happened, i am very sorry to say. in spite of common sense, she went on praising the efforts of china in eradicating poverty and all this, but she did not use her authority to condemn clearly what she must have seen during her visit or what she should have seen. i think the european union should be very careful about her possible second mandate, because we have seen that the human rights council of the united nations has become vulnerable to chinese efforts to undermine the post—war established international human rights order. i also want to say that, commissioner dombrovskis, we should hurry up with the proposal on the import ban on products produced with forced labour, because that might be a good instrument that would be able to change the situation on the ground in xinjiang.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. let us remember why we are gathered here today: to engage. we want to improve the situation of those people who are currently being interned in camps. we want to end the abuse and torture of prisoners. we want to see action taken against those responsible everywhere, including in china. to achieve this, we need dialogue with the chinese leadership, the chinese government, president xi jinping. i would like to express my gratitude to the un high commissioner for her visit to xinjiang and for the dialogue with the un, which she has now been able to institutionalize. i also expressly welcome the fact that the eu commission and chinese premier li keqiang have re-established the bilateral high-level human rights dialogue. this is the way to convince china that the measures it took 20 years ago to counter the spread of jihadist agitation in its central asian provinces, in parallel with the us and nato attack on afghanistan, are exaggerated and completely out of control. we should not allow the signals of readiness with which michelle bachelet was welcomed in china to be extinguished by impassioned speeches. we must be proactive here.
president. - we are talking about china again. in the last plenary we had a debate on the involvement of the chinese state in illegal organ transplants. and now the xinjiang files, which show how mr. xi's regime systematically oppresses the uighurs. the new documents show what we already knew. crimes against humanity are being committed in china. it is right that several parliaments around the world have declared that this repression of the uighurs is genocide. let's look at how china can be held accountable in the international criminal court for violating the genocide convention. it is not an easy road, but we owe it to those minorities in china who are brutally oppressed. that's what we have to do first. and we're not going to talk about any new investment agreement for a while. - thank you. - thank you.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, once again, we see the crimes committed by the chinese regime in xinjiang show the world the cruelty of this regime towards minorities, and the uighur minority in particular. it is not the first time that we have been called to speak out here about the unacceptable situation of serious human rights violations in china. but what can you do? clearly, we do not have the capacity to change the chinese regime. on the other hand, we have the capacity here in europe to do a lot of things. first, not to sign the investment agreement with china. secondly, we must move as quickly as possible towards the regulation of due diligence and the responsibility of companies which are complicit in this forced labour. thirdly, to prohibit the entry of these products of forced labour into european territory. and finally, to continue to denounce unceasingly in all instances, including multilateral ones, the situation that is currently being experienced in xinjiang.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr executive vice-president, the pictures do not lie, and despite the chinese regime's propaganda and the outright denial by some dignitaries, the evidence is mounting, and no one can deny it. we europeans cannot, we cannot look the other way, abandon our values, our ethics, our ideals. let us no longer condone the inhuman practices against the uighur minority. let us no longer be complicit in the industrial exploitation of uyghur labour for our clothes. it is high time that europe had a trade instrument to ban the import of products of forced labour, a promise made by president von der leyen. we are now waiting for a concrete proposal. we must not forget that the european union is a major player in the world economy. let us use our instruments of firmness and sanction fully in dealing with china. let us use our trade policy to the full as a lever to uphold our values.
the agenda includes the report by daniel caspary, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on access for goods and services from third countries to the internal market for public procurement of the european union and on procedures in support of negotiations on access for goods and services from the european union to the public procurement markets of third countries in relation to the international procurement instrument (com (((2016(0034) - c8-0018/2016 - 2012/0060co (((d)) (a9-0337/2021).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what's the story today? when a country, city or municipality wants to buy something, there is usually a public tender, for example for the purchase of new buses for public transport, the construction of a new metro or a large-scale service. in europe, it is almost always the case that anyone can apply for the job, no matter where they come from, whether they are from the member state concerned, another country in the european union or from any other country in the world. that's good too. we want to ensure that citizens get the best and most economical solution for their tax money through this competition. but at the same time it means that our european companies are competing with companies from outside the european union in these tenders. that's good for now. as long as these companies operate fairly in the market, do not receive unjustified state aid or engage in environmental, wage or social dumping, competition leads to innovation, better quality and lower prices, thus strengthening the european union's competitiveness in global competition. on the other hand, in many countries around the world, our european companies also have access to public tenders and can apply for contracts. there are agreements within the wto on this, and we have concluded agreements with individual countries in trade agreements. now, there are some countries in the world that don't allow our suppliers to participate in public tenders. or there are cases where our companies are formally allowed to participate, but other means are used to ensure that they do not end up being involved. and we cannot and will not accept that any longer, and with this legislation we want to change that. and to be very clear, our aim is not to exclude or displace foreign suppliers from our market. we simply want other countries to open up their markets and our companies there to have the same opportunities as those companies have here. it's just fairness and reciprocity. and what does that mean in detail? the commission can put pressure on the countries concerned in future, threatening either total exclusion or a disadvantage in the assessment of these countries. this is to increase the pressure on the countries to finally open their markets to our suppliers as well. to ensure the effectiveness of our instrument, to avoid unnecessary red tape and at the same time to protect small and medium-sized enterprises, we have agreed on sensible thresholds for contracts covering, on the one hand, around 70% of the total volume of public contracts and, on the other hand, only around 10% of all public contracts. secondly, we members have insisted that the mechanism for adjusting the valuation be tightened up and that the commission may provide for up to 100% price adjustment. if you look at the competitive prices that sometimes come from suppliers in china, for example, you need to do that. i am referring to the stockholm tunnels, for example, or a bridge project in croatia, where chinese suppliers sometimes charge half or even a third of the price of the cheapest european supplier. it is therefore important that we continue to strengthen our framework against unjustified state subsidies in third countries and also our anti-dumping rules. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products. so while we've created exceptions for special emergencies, we've made sure that exceptions don't make the instrument go swiss cheese, but that we really limit ourselves to a very few necessary exceptions. i am particularly grateful to the council for its flexibility and its willingness to accept the situation. i am therefore confident that with this new regulation we can make a difference for our businesses and citizens, and i look forward to the debate today.
rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, requested for an opinion. madam president, i am pleased that after many years of negotiations we have on the table today a mechanism that is balanced and that will simplify public procurement on the one hand and help to protect our entrepreneurs from unfair practices from non-european countries on the other. it is important that we recognise the power of the single market and the importance of competition. this is why we are the leader in terms of the volume of public tenders, which are open not only to european entities but also to tenderers from third countries. on the other hand, it is often very difficult for our businesses to access markets in third countries and the volumes offered represent only a fraction of our volumes. that is why it is so important to put in place a mechanism that helps protect our applicants from companies from countries that are not open to fair competition. as rapporteur in the committee on the internal market, i was responsible for a number of exclusive competences, in particular in the area of article 12, which deals with exceptions. we have adjusted them, after consulting the council, so as not to increase bureaucracy, but to clearly name these exceptions, to make them targeted and simple. allow me to take this opportunity to thank my colleague daniel caspary and his team for the tremendous amount of work they have done to make these rules a success.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, let me first thank the european parliament’s inta committee and especially the rapporteur, daniel caspary, and the opinion-giving committees, imco and juri. the commission is grateful for their political insight, hard work and the time you have invested collectively into this file; it has been discussed for more than ten years. as you know, under the portuguese, the slovenian and the french presidencies, constant and intense involvement of the co—legislators was necessary to achieve progress and to conclude this file that was stalled for a decade. with your support, we are able to deliver on this key instrument that the eu industry needs, in sectors that significantly contribute to the eu economy and the creation of jobs for eu citizens. the primary objective of this instrument is to open the markets for eu operators in third countries. but by concluding this file, the union also sends a strong message to its partners: restricting the access of eu bidders to public procurement markets may, as a last resort, lead to reciprocal restrictions on access to eu procurement markets. to avoid such reciprocal measures under the international procurement instrument (ipi), third countries will have to eliminate restrictive and protectionist measures that limit access to their public procurement markets. in its initial position and during the negotiations, the parliament has made it clear that it was supporting the proposal and seeking further improvements to strengthen this instrument. the commission is pleased to note that these improvements are largely reflected in the final compromise. so let me list a few examples. first, the limitation of national measures restricting access to the procurement market will ensure the uniform application of eu—wide ipi measures in all member states. second, stronger ipi measures have been introduced into the regulation. these include the possibility to exclude bidders from the country concerned from public procurement procedures in the eu, and higher adjustment measures to penalise bids from the country concerned. third, the exceptions to the application of ipi measures shall be limited. the exception of a disproportionate increase in price has been dropped; only the exemptions for the reason of public interest and for the lack of alternative offers from bidders not covered by the ipi will remain in the regulation. overall, the outcome of the negotiations reflects, in the commission’s view, the need for a balanced instrument that limits the administrative burden for contracting authorities and at the same time preserves eu leverage vis-à-vis third countries. the ipi is a key element in the eu’s assertive trade strategy, strongly reflecting our guiding principle on open strategic autonomy. so your vote will be an important milestone for a stronger, more ambitious and more assertive eu trade policy. i look forward to hearing your views in today’s debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear executive vice-president, the openness of our eu economy is one of our biggest assets, but are our companies met with the same open arms in all of the third countries to which we grant access to our internal market? the answer is clearly no, and that is why the international procurement instrument is more important than ever if we want to deliver on our open strategic autonomy. the elephant in the room, without any doubt, is china. until the sudden halt of the eu-china comprehensive agreement on investment, the council played the unfortunate game of the chinese. our parliament rapporteur, daniel caspary, has proven that he is a real endurance athlete, because he maintained the necessary calm during more than ten years, three legislative terms and more than 20 presidencies of the council, to finally close this evident legislative loophole. our markets remain open to those who embrace us with reciprocity. the companies of those countries who do not, will inevitably face the same cold wind that our companies are used to. jean-claude juncker stated in 2018, in this chamber, that europe is open but not for the taking. these words seemed, until now, somehow like idle words. but with a positive vote on the political agreement on the international procurement instrument tomorrow, we will finally put flesh on the bones of this statement. i just want to finish by congratulating daniel caspary, bernd lange and all the shadows involved in this on finally setting this milestone. we need this, our companies need this, and this was long overdue.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. for a long time, perhaps too long, our toolbox to defend ourselves against unfair trade practices has been empty. we have waited over ten years for a tool in the field of public procurement to protect our political and economic interests against unfair commercial practices. 12 % of the european union's gross domestic product is generated by public procurement 12 % financed by taxpayers' money. and it cannot be that dumping offers from states which deny us access to public procurement are being accepted here. that is why it is right that we draw the line here. by the way, this tool isn't the only thing we need. we will also take action against unfair subsidies and also against coercive measures which use trade and investment to force us into political decisions. no, we defend our political and economic interests fairly and justly in a global world.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, this is my first debate in plenary, so very honoured to be here. we in the european union thrive from an open market and as the world’s largest trading bloc, we shall continue to prosper from open and free trade with our partners. at the same time, the world around us has changed. for many years, we are seeing that not everyone is playing by the same rules and that many countries keep their procurement markets closed for european companies, all of this while those countries continue to benefit from our openness. whether we are talking about the construction of roads and bridges, dredging rivers or selling metro stations, we see more and more foreign state—owned enterprises participating in european tenders – for instance, the pelješac bridge in croatia, which was built by a chinese state-owned company with eu funds. all of this is currently possible while european companies can often not participate in tenders in china. and china is not the only country where we are seeing closed doors. we want open and free trade. but let one thing be clear: we need to draw a line somewhere. we need to avoid seeing unfair situations elsewhere in europe, also in my home country, the netherlands. so in order to continue to prosper, we will need fair trade, because our businesses, big and small, are the backbone of our economy. we will finally be able to make it harder for foreign companies to win tenders here or even to exclude them as long as their countries are not opening their markets to european companies. we want to keep our openness, but you have to open as well.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when i asked your services this question two years ago, the commission admitted that it had no idea that european companies had been able to win public contracts in the united states or china. today you are announcing that brussels will demand reciprocity and the opening up of public procurement in non-european countries. that's good. it is not too early, and we will vote for this text. but how do we explain to the french and the europeans that the commission signed a contract last month with a british company, british telecom, to manage secret communications between member states for over €1 billion? how can brussels hire the american consultancy firm mckinsey without checking whether it pays taxes in france or in europe? how can the european srb agency, which handles european bank failures in brussels, choose the us firm blackrock as its adviser via a €30 million framework contract? finally, ibm is the leader of the €140 million project which manages our schengen data, via a €30 million framework contract. but this is a royal function. cooperation in europe will only be successful if it is based on the priority for all europeans.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, better late than never. i welcome the outcome of this long negotiation, which will finally enable the european union to have an instrument for protecting public procurement. i also welcome the rapporteur's tenacity, because i would remind you that the text has been blocked in the council for ten years by governments who share the religion of free trade without obstacles, and it is time that european naivety stopped. it was also time to rediscover the virtues of reciprocity. but that was only possible when we faced the harsh reality. that is to say, yes, there are states that protect their interests, that do not play the game of fair competition, yes, there has been a strengthening of protectionism, chinese of course, as has been said, but also american, and from others still. i repeat the hallucinatory example of a bridge built in croatia: 350 million in european aid, and in the end it is a chinese company that benefits. then we shouldn't spend public money. the interests of european companies must be defended. i think we can go further. ten years ago, in public procurement, we were told, "you're wrong about everything". today we are proved right. i propose something else: the buy european act, that is to say, european preference in certain areas. you are now saying to us: 'it is not possible.' i hope it will not take ten years to achieve this.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. today we are finally talking about legislation that protects the interests of european companies, that is, we are able to ensure them a level playing field with their foreign competitors: countries that do not allow european companies to enter the public procurement market can now expect a more difficult path in european tenders. of course, as we've all seen, the ep was once again trying to go over the top. for the majority on the left, it was more important to try to exclude foreign capital on ideological grounds than to position the european economy in a way that would strengthen its competitiveness, rather than create obstacles to it. fortunately, in consultation with the council, these excesses have been brought back. there is a shortage of capital in several member states, including hungary. we are in dire need of foreign investment. in the current economic situation, in times of high inflation, we must be sensible, we must not turn away foreign capital and make investments too expensive. after all, it would ultimately take money out of the taxpayer's pocket. the resulting compromise will allow us to continue to get the best bid in public procurement, because that is in the interest of the european economy. good news on a day when the left of the ep has backed an excess of greening, regardless of the capacity of european businesses to bear the burden. congratulations to the reporter.
madam president, mr dombrovskis, i would like to start by congratulating our rapporteur, mr caspary, all the alternative rapporteurs, the chairman of our inta committee, mr bernd lange, and the commission and the council because i think we have done an excellent job. it is true that it has taken too long, ten years, but we can be pleased with the result achieved because the european union is at last equipping itself with the necessary instruments to ensure a level playing field and, in this case with the international public procurement instrument, equal treatment in public procurement: a principle as simple as reciprocity, which has taken so long to begin to provide itself with objective elements to guarantee it. i would particularly like to congratulate the fact that social, labour and environmental obligations are finally being included in public procurement procedures; not only environmental dumping but also social dumping must be combated. and i would ask you, mr dombrovskis, to ensure that there is coordination between the two instruments and that there are no distortive elements in the other regulation, where it is well established.
madam president, mr executive vice-president, here we are at last. ten years to finally have an instrument for reciprocity in public procurement. ten years to finally ensure that our companies compete fairly and equitably in the public procurement of our partners. this historic vote owes much to our rapporteur and the european parliament team for their perseverance, and to two presidencies: the portuguese presidency, which unblocked this dossier, and, of course, the french presidency of the council of the european union, which weighed in with all its might to achieve a responsive, effective and credible instrument. this text, which was the commercial priority of nicolas sarkozy and françois hollande, was adopted thanks to the french presidency of emmanuel macron. this is a new giant step for our strategic autonomy and for bringing about the end of naive europe. the initial finding is more than alarming: while the european union is a highly open market, only a quarter of public procurement worldwide is open to international competition. a non-european company participating in a public market in the european union may now be excluded if the company originates in a country which is closed to european companies. it is a message of firmness, particularly towards china and its policy which is clearly hostile to european investors. it is also a reminder that there are rules and that they must be respected. so let us continue to strengthen our toolbox: the fight against foreign subsidies, the fight against economic coercion. this must be our course, the course of a sovereign europe that takes its destiny into its own hands.
madam president, last sunday in owo, the mass was coming to an end when the first shots were fired. more than 50 people were killed and dozens more were injured, including many children. what was their crime? for going to mass. less than a month ago, in nigeria, young deborah samuel was lynched, stoned, and her body burned by her classmates in the name of islam. what was his crime? she was a christian. in the wake of this assassination, a majority of this parliament had refused to put this subject on its agenda. we speak a lot here, but persecuted christians have the right to remain silent. a silence that should shame us. who said anything about the owo dead? where did you see their pictures? where did you hear the witnesses? we are talking about it tonight, but this parliament is almost empty when this is a subject which should concern us all. because europe is involved; our continent owes so much to the christian faith! when will we finally understand that europe has a duty to protect persecuted christians all over the world? the nigerians, of course, but also the iraqis, the syrians, the pakistanis, the indians, the chinese, of course, i am thinking of cardinal zen, who was arrested recently. what is europe doing? what's she saying? it is not a question of the commission's being too rigid, but of the commission's being too rigid. ladies and gentlemen, if we do not act now, this silence will remain the symptom of the greatest of the denials by the european leaders.
in writing. on sunday, june 5, gunmen attacked a catholic church in the city of owo during the pentecost mass in southwestern nigeria, killing 21 worshippers, according to an initial count by the authorities. this is the latest in a long series of attacks on christians worldwide. according to the 2022 edition of the world index of christian persecution compiled annually by the ngo open doors, in 2021, 5,898 christians were killed because of their faith, 5,110 churches were targeted for closure or violence, and 6,175 christians are detained for their religious beliefs. unfortunately, i have to say that this parliament has never given the issue of the persecution of christians in the world the importance it deserves. the evidence is that my colleague jean-paul garraud's request to add to the agenda of the plenary session on wednesday 18 may a debate on this subject, including the case of deborah samuel, who was killed by islamists in nigeria for a simple whatsapp message, was rejected by the majority of this house in cold indifference.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, in january 2015, the president of the commission, mr juncker, dared to say: there can be no democratic choice against the european treaties, treaties which were imposed by force, denying the french 'no' to the 2005 referendum, and which need to be reviewed more than ever, from the basement to the attic. and our group was the only one in recent years to ask for the organization of a convention for the revision. but let us be clear: this cannot be just the exercise of the com mon role that the french presidency has played in the conference on the future of europe. and i would have liked to ask the minister directly, who must surely be very busy, mr beaune, campaigning in france to denigrate the european terrain, i would have liked to ask him to do the test around him, to get out of the european bubble, and to ask who has heard about this conference. there are not many people, and that's a pity, because the few contributions from citizens are enlightening. and i have a scoop for you: they're not asking for more competition, free trade or austerity, but more democracy, climate action, public services, social rights. so a convention to revise the european treaties: yes, a thousand times yes, but to get rid of the 3% deficit rule, to stop free trade at all costs, to take common goods and public services out of the market, to put an end to the unanimity that protects tax havens and to give parliament the right of initiative in the proposals we make in this document. but all this requires a clear and sharp break with the current neoliberal logic of europe. otherwise, accept that there are democratic choices against the european treaties and that states act as scouts at national level to get out of these dogmas, including by occasionally disobeying to move the lines. it is a question of our ability to respond to the ecological and social emergencies which the present european treaties paralyze us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today the european parliament, for the first time in its history, will initiate the procedure for convening a convention to reform the union's founding treaties. it is a turning point that we have been waiting for for many years, because today the citizens of europe are asking us for more social protection, higher wages, more commitment to the defence of human rights, more investment in sustainable development. we must listen to them and, in order to respond to their demands, we must abolish the right of veto and open a genuine constituent phase for a new europe. at the european council on 23 june our governments will have to answer to their public opinions. the time for conferences is over, it is time to decide. for those who want a more united, stronger europe, to decide more together, they must be able to do so, they must be able to move forward. it is time for europe to unite, it is time for courage. let us not let our citizens down, let us build a better future for europe, all together.
mr president, the european citizen is usually ahead of the political process. this is confirmed by a number of opinion polls where citizens overwhelmingly support a credible european defence. this is also confirmed by surveys of support to developing countries. the same goes for health, energy, our place in the world. the european citizens answer these questions directly and without any ulterior motive. they are motivated by their concern to find themselves in a political decision-making framework that is able to meet their expectations. citizens are speaking out against the blockades, against blackmail, against bargaining, against the tricks, which are good when the least budgetary, the most recalcitrant, the least respectful of fundamental values and sometimes also the most corrupt abuse the rule of unanimity to block the functioning of the european union. let's put an end to this charade.
mr president, last month we were talking about the conference on the future of europe and citizen involvement, yesterday about the right of legislative initiative for this parliament, and today about article 48 and the revision of the treaties. because we really need to change the treaties, which do not allow us to have effective and fully democratic institutions, because of this famous problem of unanimity. the european union of june 2022 is a chaotic democratic space, shaken by the imminent return of war, pressed by its balkan youth, who are tired of waiting at the door, crossed by all the challenges of the climate emergency, and which has finally partially abandoned monetary rigor, because of the pandemic and then the energy crisis. but in the midst of all this, there is an autocrat having fun. he takes a clever pleasure in delaying decisions, preventing major advances and having all the other governments, the other heads of government, eat in his hand. and this autocrat, it's possible that he's installed permanently. unanimity today does not protect small countries, but rather undermines our common future and, above all, makes the decisions of the european union dance to the rhythm of an autocrat.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the conference on the future of europe has been transformed into a real communication operation, thus eliminating the many manoeuvres and failures. this conference was very poorly attended. in fact, the parliament was merely organising a democracy that had been badly damaged, and whose citizen participation gave european leaders the green light to push the fires of integration. unsurprisingly, the european executive has announced that it is ready to reform the eu, in particular by abandoning the unanimity vote in the council in all areas, including taxation and foreign policy, except for the accession of new states or unspecified cases affecting the union's fundamental values. this flagship proposal of the conference calls for a revision of the treaties. however, many member states are opposed to the launch of such a procedure. there are no less than thirteen of them. if approved, this reform would bring an end to the right of veto, whereas in international organizations, under the concept of absolute sovereignty of states, veto is a common practice. emmanuel macron asks that this issue be discussed at the summit scheduled for 23 and 24 june. it is therefore seeking to use all the political levers to force a reform with disastrous consequences, particularly for the foreign policy of the member states. if this reform succeeds, history will forget that it took root in a conference that was supposed to involve citizens in a broad reflection on reforming europe, but which has largely remained under the radar of europeans, reducing this consultation to an artificial device that helped trigger the end of the rule of unanimity. (speaker agrees to reply to a blue card)
the answer is 'blue card'. madam president, i myself was the coordinator on behalf of the id group for the conference on the future of europe, and the only thing i noticed was that, no, it was not representative. there were very few citizens who registered on the online platform. several meetings were held, including a plenary session, which was cancelled because of the agenda. no, the representativeness wasn't really there, ma'am.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the crises we are experiencing and in view of the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe, the european union needs to have new instruments at its disposal to protect the population. but treaty change is not an end in itself. what is needed is a more united, more humane, more efficient europe. we're talking about such skills in health, social policy, energy or even education. in the same vein, the european parliament, as the main representative institution at european level, must have the right of legislative initiative in order to fulfil the will of citizens. the commission is also proposing to make the procedure easier on specific issues, such as accession to the schengen area or the application of sanctions to aggressor states. but there's also a red line. we do not want certain european bureaucrats to decide in an opaque way. we want the voice of every country and every european citizen to be heard at a truly european level. that's why, in order for our vote on treaty change to be a reflection of the will of the citizens, the social democratic party, of which pes activists romania is a part, is conducting a public consultation at the national level, in our country. i also invite you to do the same.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam vice-president, mr minister, the reform of the treaties can no longer be postponed. the pandemic told us that, and the war tells us that today. the outcome of the conference on the future of europe has given us a range of proposals in this respect. the convening of a convention to review the treaties is therefore no longer an option but a duty. more efficient institutions, capable of taking decisions by abolishing the unanimity vote, a stronger parliament, new areas of cooperation and joint action are essential elements in guaranteeing our values and our development. in a world where we now represent far less than 10% of the population and where we risk shifting the centre of gravity of development to the east, the european union is our minimum unit of action. do we think we can meet the challenges of the world with small countries and small national interests? alcide de gasperi used to say: "a politician looks to the next election, a statesman to the next generation". we have a choice to be one or the other.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam vice-president, mr minister, faced with the pandemic first and the war afterwards, we woke up weak and helpless. we have realised, with culpable delay, that we would have needed energy security, shorter value chains, investment in defence, food sovereignty. if we do not have all this today, it is not because of the treaties, but because of the political choices that have been made or not made in recent years by european political leaders and, to a large extent, to their ears, europeans, at least in words. on the contrary, when europe has rarely had a strong political will, it has expressed it by developing the full potential of the existing treaties, and that is what 13 governments, not just us, obviously, think. we suspect, not to say we are certain, that you are not interested in removing unanimity in order to pass sanctions on russia more quickly or to have a stronger europe, but to impose by majority votes a determined political agenda, made up of mass immigration, the destruction of the family, climate fundamentalism. that is why we do not trust this false desire for reform and we continue to defend the fundamental principles of these treaties, first and foremost the subsidiarity and centrality of the national states.
the president, the vice-president and my dear friend, an old friend ivo belet, welcome to the island. the treaties are the foundation of the eu and every action taken by it. they should not be changed hastily or flippantly, but that is not to say they should not be changed at all. as the world around us changes, we in the eu must also be ready to adapt when necessary. during the conference on the future of europe, citizens shared their views and ideas on a wide range of topics, from climate change to jobs to european democracy. as representatives of the citizens, we have an obligation to take on board their proposals. we should do what we can within the boundaries of the treaties as they stand. that being said, i believe that now is the time to convene a convention, bringing together heads of government, and representatives of national parliaments, of this parliament and the commission to thoroughly examine and consider whether our union and our citizens would benefit from a revision of the treaties. the purpose of today's resolution is to signal to the council our wish to convene the convention. it is not the place to decide this parliament's proposals for treaty revisions. such a significant decision must be well informed and given adequate time, and i look forward to working with my colleagues in the afco committee on this report. i will be supporting the amendments tabled jointly by the epp and other groups. i hope, colleagues, that you do the same and that you support the convening of this convention.
mr. president, mr. minister, i'm glad you could make it. we have heard your little quarrel with my colleague manon aubry, and i do not think that nupes, although it is quite obsessed with your government at the moment, is responsible for the train delays either. no one blames you for being late; i hope you will not blame my colleague manon aubry for waiting an hour and then having to leave. i shall now begin my speech. sixty billion is what we should be getting today, right now, but one country is preventing us, one government is preventing us: the polish government. he is preventing us from doing so because of unanimity, and that is why he is at the heart of all our attention, through a kind of blackmail - basically: i will block everything unless you give me my money. and this unanimity situation does not only pose problems from a fiscal point of view: it prevents us from making progress on the fundamental question of the rule of law. i therefore say this with a certain force and gravity: all the enemies of the qualified majority today are playing the game of certain states, which are currently in a total drift. the best guarantee today to protect democracy is the qualified majority.
mr president, without a change in the constitution, we're not going anywhere. we are still paying for the french and dutch no to the euroconstitution 18 years ago. today one says no because he is afraid of paying more, another wants to keep his tax advantage, a third wants unanimity thinking that it protects national interests. we compare ourselves to our past and think we're making progress. in fact, we are falling further and further behind the demands of the modern world. a typical example, we all together spend three times as much on defense as russia. but putin has the upper hand in ukraine because we are neither united nor organized. we're also losing out to the us and china. we manage big ideas and big prospects. so we must not be small in our perceptions.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, i can only begin by criticising you, because the reason is childish, to say that the train was late. you have to take care of yourself, to be here, on such an important subject. because a colleague at renew remembered what mr. macron said, i'm going to remember what he said in 2017. i'm pro-european, you know. i am pro-european and i want the european union project to exist, because in the global context we need a strong european union. but not the one mr. macron wants. and as she said in 2017, i'm telling you now that i will never support her: she wants a two-speed europe. i will support this resolution, we need the european parliament to have the legislative initiative. i no longer want unanimity in the council, because my country is outside the schengen area precisely because of the opposition of one or two heads of state. but, minister, please tell mr macron that the aim of amending the treaties is not to have a two-speed europe. we're headed for skepticism. citizens need to trust the european union.
mr president, vice-president, minister, in 2021 the irish government originally co-signed a letter with 11 other member states opposing treaty change that might arise from the conference on the future of europe. the idea that a bottom up, citizen-led exercise in participatory democracy would be pre-emptively rejected by 12 member states seemed tone—deaf to me. the letter said, and i quote, ‘it should not create legal obligations, nor should it duplicate or unduly interfere with the established legislative processes’. this seemed ridiculous to me, and despite this discouragement, many thousands of citizens across the european union participated in the conference. and i am delighted to say that the irish taoiseach yesterday in this hemicycle announced that ireland is fully committed to treaty change that might arise from a convention. a final note – a cautionary message perhaps – is that ireland is the only country constitutionally obligated to hold a referendum to give effect to eu treaty change. at the same time, ireland is also most consistently positive towards eu membership. there may be a cautionary tale for everybody in that.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i was listening carefully to this debate this morning, and i want, first of all, to thank you for inviting me to this debate. i think now that all of us agree that, following this intense year of deliberation and engagement with citizens through the conference on the future of europe, the input of engagement of citizens helps reinforce representative democracy. at the beginning it was not like this, but now i am sure that all of us can share this opinion. we should not lose out of sight that what we have achieved is historically significant. every institutional component of the conference gave its consensus on 49 proposals. in the words of president von der leyen, the conference weaved and crafted the vision of europe that delivers on what matters most that helps to make everyday life better. and we have all listened to the citizens. we all have a role in following up to the proposals of the conference. effective feedback is vital to this process. this is where we show that the message from citizens has been well received. for the commission as a first step, the follow-up will take the shape of a communication and president von der leyen will announce the commission’s first initiatives, as i already said this morning, in her state of the union address. the subsequent commission work programme will see the further implementation of a number of proposals. for the european parliament, part of the response includes calling for treaty change. as president von der leyen said in her speech at the closing of the conference, the commission will always be on the side of those who want to reform the european union and to make it work better. as mentioned earlier, the commission is ready to play its part. that’s all for my side. thank you for having me here today and i am looking forward to voting.
president of the council. mr president, madam vice-president, dear dubravka šuica, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize again for being a little late this morning. i would like to conclude by saying a few words in the most transparent way possible at this stage of the process. many have said so, but i want to emphasise this again - we also saw it together on 9 may: this exercise, which has been going on for more than a year, during this conference on the future of europe, has made it possible, in a way that has never been seen before in all our member states, through all our institutions, through online contributions and through debates in this plenary assembly meeting right here, to have a set of ambitious proposals, which now await strong responses from all our institutions. i am measuring the commitment of the european parliament this morning and, like the vice-president, i am looking forward to the outcome of your votes, but i think it will be ambitious itself. i want to tell you that the council is still debating this. as the presidency, we have a responsibility and a commitment, which the president of the republic recalled here on 9 may. first, a responsibility: to make this conference and its aftermath come alive. i have not concealed from you, as you know, that there are debates, sometimes differences, even today, between the member states. the question of treaty revision is one of them. many noted, with either satisfaction or regret, that thirteen member states had expressed reservations on this point. on the french side, we have made no secret of this, and this will be our position, of course, beyond this six-month presidency. we are in favour of this, we are open to it and we believe that it will be part of the options we will open after this conference. but the institutional responsibility we have, the commitment we make, is to open this debate without delay on the council's part, even if it is difficult, especially because it is difficult. i said at the general affairs council that i would be chairing it on 21 june, and in conjunction with the president of the european council, the president of the republic will wish us to be able to raise this issue also at the european council at the end of june. it will of course be up to president charles michel, in his capacity as president, and in view of the agenda for the situation in ukraine in particular, to decide, but i think it would be necessary to raise this point as early as june in order not to waste time and not to disappoint in the follow-up of this process. several other exercises will continue. on the council side, we are coordinating this week with the president of the republic and the czech prime minister so that the next presidency can continue to take up this matter, to put it on the agenda, particularly of the general affairs council, and so that the council can express a position on the substance quickly, which we have not yet done. we also committed ourselves, madam vice-president, as you recalled, because we owe it to the citizens, to a collective follow-up event in the autumn, after the council and parliament meetings, after the speech by the president of the european commission on the state of the union and the legislative programme for 2023, and to being able, between the institutions, to return to the citizens to tell them what we have done with their proposals and the first measures of implementation. on the question of the convention and the revision of the treaties, to return to the position of france, which i expressed this morning, i say: i think we must be as open as possible. i am very grateful to those who have brought it forward: mr freund, mr boeselager, mr verhofstadt, mr durand and many others. we must be open to this process. it's tricky, it doesn't solve everything, but it's essential. we must be open to a revision of the treaties, with a simple approach, in this process. it's a tool, not a project in itself. not everything is solved by a revision of our treaties, not everything requires such a revision. i repeat: there will be member states which will be reluctant or even opposed to it - at least there are some today. it is sincerity to recall it. but we need it, because there are a number of issues that require institutional thinking. nor do all of them require a revision of the treaties, but they can be part of it, such as the question of unanimity, on which, again - and this is an important development - the president of the republic said, including on foreign policy issues, that we were open to a development, which is the meaning of history, towards more qualified majority voting or the totality of the qualified majority. we must also - and this is not a way of avoiding debate, on the contrary, it is a guarantee of efficiency - move forward without delay, come what may, on many other proposals which do not require a revision of our treaties. in the nine working groups, in the three hundred proposals that have been gathered - or even a little more - there is a lot of things, on health matters, on education matters, on trade matters, on environmental matters, that can go forward with a directive, a regulation, a parliamentary debate, sometimes a commission decision or a council position. of course we have to. this requires budgetary means; this requires debates which do not necessarily amount to a revision of the treaties, because otherwise we would not be moving fast enough, come what may. so i think we have to open up these two avenues at the same time, these two types of reform at the same time. i will not go on because i see that i have already exceeded my time, but i wanted to tell you how much france, together with a few others here, wanted and carried out this exercise. i thank parliament for being perhaps the greatest driving force behind this. we must now make it a reality, an inspiring project for our european union. in the months and years to come, we will be on the side of france - believe me, i am personally committed - at the rendezvous.
ladies and gentlemen, this debate has made it clear that this parliament will do everything it can to be the driving force behind the implementation of the proposals of the conference on the future of europe - everything that can be done without treaty reform and everything that requires treaty reform. the convention must therefore be launched and it must deal with all these questions and produce concrete results. the debate was closed with two motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 9 june 2022. the following table is presented in order of appearance: see minutes of the sitting. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the current resolution, proposed by the left-wing groups, aims to further the conclusions of the future of europe conference series. they would give more power to the already growing european institutions, undermining national sovereign decision-making. they would move towards a centralised model of european integration that would project the image of a united states of europe, weakening the decision-making power of the member states. the process of the conference was neither democratic nor pluralist, and the adoption of conclusions by such a method is not legitimate. the resolution on this basis cannot therefore be supported by the left-liberal majority in the ep. the people of europe want democratic societies instead of open societies. the situation is complex, and it deserves an open and honest discussion. we need a renewal that does not want to go beyond the constitutional identity, culture and traditions of the european nations, which would destroy the whole structure. but this cannot mean forced federalisation and centralisation on an artificial, ideological basis. we should finally be able to find real solutions to real problems. ideologically motivated attempts at centralisation only lead to deepening crises. we are interested in building together a more democratic and resilient union, while respecting the right of national self-determination. a strong european union can only be achieved through the cooperation of strong, sovereign member states based on mutual understanding. we still believe in the pluralism of opinion and freedom.
in writing. – citizens were asked during the past year to think how the eu could work better for them. one of the most resounding answers was changing the treaties. the parliament has taken, through this resolution, the first step in the right direction. we need to keep the promise of the conference – that citizens will be listened to, and their proposals will be implemented, including through the revision of the treaties. we need a revision of the treaties to let the eu protect the health of its citizens, for a swift and decided foreign policy, without the unanimity principle, or for giving the parliament the right of legislative initiative. all were key proposals from the conference on the future of europe and i welcome the resolution as an important step forward. moreover, the results of the conference shows us that citizens must be involved more often in the decision - making process of the eu. not only 5 years, when they vote, or every 20 or 30 years when something similar to the conference happens, but annually, in a structured manner.
in writing. the european union, like any other community, needs to reform, innovate and respond to new social, economic and political challenges in the long term. the revision of the eu treaties should reflect in particular the outcome of the conference on the future of europe. the citizen's voice is very important. at the same time, the covid-19 pandemic and energy shortages have taught us that the european union needs more competences in health and energy.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on a new instrument to ban products produced by forced labour, by bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000018/2022 b9-0015/22) (2022/2611 ((rsp)).
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the last few months, we've been wearing masks and often gloves, these beautiful blue disposable gloves. 65% of the world's oil comes from malaysia, where it is produced by companies using forced labor. people have to pay a lot of money to get a job there, and then they are forced into - you can almost say - forced labor. so a situation that is basically not bearable at all. products are made there to protect us, on the backs of people who can't make their own decisions about their work. the united states has also banned the import of these gloves because of the forced labor. we have just heard new information about forced labor in xinjiang, china, where products are also being produced under forced labor. and so i ask myself: how can this be, since the international labour organization has banned forced labour since 1930? forced labour is any work or service performed by a person under threat of violence or punishment and which is not performed voluntarily. in 1957 this was taken up again by the ilo with convention 105. and it's also been taken up again in the sdgs in sdg 8. so almost 100 years of clear commitment against forced labor. but what about 100 years later? 25 million people are forced to work in countries all over the world. and i naturally ask the commission: when will we, as the european union, which stands for freedom and democracy, take action to remedy this situation? when and how will the commission act? seven points are of particular interest: the first is, of course, how we can organise a ban on import marketing, so that we put marketing at the centre, because we naturally do not want to see any products produced by forced labour on our market any more and this must of course be done in accordance with the wto rules. second, we need a clear definition of forced labour, based on the ilo criteria, the 11 indicators and of course the extension, the modernisation of the 1930 convention no. 29 of 2014. thirdly, we need clear evidence criteria for the identification of forced labour, but also dialogue with companies to make it clear that they have the opportunity to present their point of view and, where appropriate, to ensure that their products are not derived from forced labour. we need clear monitoring, transparency, and that is why we would like to have a data system where we can present all relevant information transparently and where authorities can also take samples. of course, we also need enforcement, which means that if forced labor is detected, it can also be confiscated and a forced dialogue with the manufacturer is also carried out to ensure that remedies are also created on the ground. we can't do this alone. that is why we need international cooperation, perhaps to look at and take up the experience of the united states, but also beyond. we do not want to create circumvention situations where products are then shipped to other markets. and seventhly, we must also ensure that there is coherence with other legislation, so that we do not produce a huge bureaucratic mess, but are coherent with other legislation. william hudson once said, "life is the best thing we have". 25 million people are not free to shape their own lives. that is why we must tackle this and work together to abolish forced labour.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the commission is addressing forced labour in global value chains as a priority. forced labour exists on every continent, including europe, unfortunately. however, it should be noted that the physical characteristics of a product do not reveal whether forced labour has been used. it also often takes place at the early stages of a supply chain. to address it efficiently, we need to tackle the root cause, which is often related to economic, social, political or cultural circumstances. other root causes include legislative gaps and the lack of effective enforcement. finding effective solutions requires a long—term effort, combined with short— and medium-term european union action. it will require pooling together a number of relevant policy tools at european level and in the international context. i would like to thank you for the questions you have asked. we are still developing our approach and we still expect to receive comments from stakeholders. therefore, i will not reply to all your questions in detail today, but they are all well noted for our further consideration. in response to your questions on the process, we aim to adopt a legislative proposal after the summer break. executive vice-president dombrovskis and commissioner breton co—lead on this file, with all relevant commission services as well as the external action service closely associated. executive vice-president vestager is also associated with this file. the initiative requires urgent action, which does not allow preparing an impact assessment, but the commission will publish the evidence of a staff working document. the commission published on 23 may a call for evidence for public feedback. furthermore, we are currently holding targeted consultations with eu and international stakeholders. this proposal will also respond to the recommendations of the conference on the future of europe, the fight against child labour and forced child labour. as regards the content of the new instrument, the guidelines were presented by the commission president in her state of the union speech last september, and in the commission communication on decent work worldwide. this provided the basis for the instrument we are currently fleshing out. the aim of the legislative proposal will be to effectively prohibit the placing on the eu market of products made by forced labour, and this marketing prohibition would cover both domestic and imported products. the instruments would have a risk—based enforcement, build on international standards and complement existing horizontal and sectorial eu initiatives, in particular due diligence and transparency obligations. the measure would introduce a prohibition to place products made with forced labour on the eu market. therefore the relevant legal basis could be article 114 of the treaty, possibly combined with article 207 of the treaty if deemed relevant. the legislative proposal should recognise the role of due diligence in identifying, preventing, mitigating and accounting for the use of forced labour in value chains. it should be coherent with the due diligence obligations established in existing initiatives. it may be useful to give guidelines to companies to help them carry out various steps of due diligence. this should be in line with those guidelines to be developed in the framework of the proposal for a directive on corporate sustainability due diligence. such guidelines should be tailored for different types of economic operators, especially those not covered by the above—mentioned proposal. we should avoid placing unnecessary additional administrative burden on businesses and the enforcement authorities, and we should provide tools to help them with implementation. for example, an important element will be information—sharing on the risks of forced labour. the proposal should also consider the specific situation of smes, both in its design and enforcement. forced labour is a very complex issue. the international dimension is important and we are cooperating with partners, including the us and canada – who indeed have their own systems – but also with international organisations. the initiative should consider ways to cooperate with third countries, including countries where supply chains originate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. bernd lange has given some examples of forced labour, and we all remember the terrible information and images of the recent revelations about the situation in china. i quote from an oral question to the european commission: 'in the united states, the importation of goods produced by prisoners is prohibited by law. accordingly, the sale of products of several such companies on the domestic market was prevented. and the question was then to the commission - and i quote again - what measures will the commission take to prevent the direct and indirect import of such products into the eu? when will the commission begin to cooperate as closely as possible with the united states authorities in identifying these products? other that is not our question today. this is a question that some colleagues and i put to the then commission on 7 june 2010, and on 23 september 2010 the debate took place. at that time, commissioner füle promised that the matter would be dealt with and that the commission would make proposals, and so far not much has happened. in 2011, on december 15th, my colleagues and i asked around. the commissioner's reply at the time was: 'yes, we will do something'. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. then nothing happened again. on february 25, 2013, some colleagues and i will be doing the same. the commission will reply in writing on 18 april. we all know the result: another nine years of nothing. i could go on and on. we have the subject on the agenda today. we are giving the commission a clear mandate in our resolution. and after commission president ursula von der leyen has announced that she will also recognise parliament's right of initiative, i can only say: please do what we are asking for in the first paragraph, namely that we ask for a new wto-compliant instrument to supplement the due diligence obligations of companies. and i hope, commissioner, that you and your colleagues will come forward with a legislative proposal as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a crime against humanity has been haunting our cupboards and our shops for too long. the deportation and enslavement of the uyghur people. when you buy a zara shirt or a pair of nikes, you may unknowingly, unwittingly, find yourself tied to the chinese prison system. why would you do that? because there is no law in europe, no instrument to prevent the importation of the products of forced labour. because our market is open to all winds and nothing can stop the greed of multinational companies who will do anything to make their enormous margins and pay their insane dividends. it is time to put an end to irresponsibility and impunity. today, we, the representatives of the citizens of europe, are sending a clear message to the most greedy exploiters. you're gonna have to play by the rules from now on. this vote is the result of several years of mobilization. it was made possible by the courage of hundreds of thousands of european citizens. the demand that these young people from france and elsewhere have made of us is simple, basic: allow us to dress, move, make phone calls without being accomplices in crimes. dare, dare to stand up to the lobbyists and the tyrants. finally, be worthy of the mission we have entrusted to you. our resolution, which has received such widespread support, lays down a simple and effective instrument for banning the products of slavery from the european market. so one day soon the customs officers in le havre or rotterdam will seize cargoes from china or elsewhere and block the products of forced labour before they reach our stores and our cupboards. until that day, we will release nothing. we will be worthy of our mission. and finally, we will dare to confront the greed of those multinational corporations who think they can enjoy endlessly a world without rules.
mr president, 25 million people are forced to work in the world, including 4 million children. they produce our clothes, our food, our cell phones, and most of the time without us even knowing. many companies like nestlé, zara, huawei, etc., are enriching themselves on this modern slavery to feed their thirst for profit. a year ago, the president of the european commission announced in a big way the ban on the import of products from forced labour into the european market. but the trade commissioner has been slow to act since then. we are told that this measure would have too negative an impact on european trade, and that perhaps it should be relaxed... so who do you believe? who will believe the commission? the commission of the great speeches or the commission of the great renunciations? the commission which denounces the forced labour of the uighurs in china or the commission which concludes a trade agreement with that country? the one that promised an ambitious law on duty of vigilance or the one that offers us a directive at a discount? unlike you, our position is unchanged: we will always put human rights above corporate profits. so wait no longer. we want to dress, eat, and make a telephone call without being complicit in forced labor.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, i would like to support the request made by my colleague philippe lamberts on behalf of our left group. today we are going to discuss, as we know, a package of major proposals to combat climate change. our planet is literally burning before our eyes and we are going to vote to act, because we know we have no more time. and, if you will pardon the expression, i have the feeling that there is a kind of tampering in the organisation of the votes because, as has been pointed out, there is a rather simple principle governing the organisation of our work and our discussions, namely that we should always consider the most ambitious amendment. and whether you agree with the proposal or not, it's more ambitious to end the free polluting rights of large companies in 2030, rather than in 2032, it's obvious, everyone understood that. so, madam president, it is one thing that some people in this house are climate grave-diggers, but i say, at least take your votes and let us at least have a say in whether we can raise the level of ambition of this climate package. it's a climate issue, but it's also a democratic issue, i think.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, it is with great zeal that the rapporteurs are presenting these three reports of the climate package to us today. there is obviously a climate emergency, but what you call the climate emergency is really a desire to force your ideological project to be accepted. instead of proposing a text more favourable to the working classes, you have locked yourselves up to negotiate an even more restrictive report. the right and the socialists have agreed on all possible compromises. so here are the irresponsible consequences of your policy: coal will have to be turned on full blast to power your expensive and inefficient renewable energy; the price of imported products will rise to finance environmental efforts on other continents, without any guarantee of results, moreover; finally, european citizens will have to respond to the injunction to buy electricity at no cost, even if it means exploiting child labour in cobalt and lithium mines on the other side of the world. but apparently no one is concerned about this disgrace. if your speeches are to be believed, we will solve the global climate crisis by increasing environmental constraints in europe. europeans must not take on the entire burden of environmental measures while other continents wait quietly to recover our market shares. and then there's the other hypocrisy: gas and oil. by wanting to get rid of russian gas and oil, you are opening the door to american shale gas and its disastrous environmental impact. you know very well that we will have to reopen even more coal-fired power stations, like our german neighbours. in the face of your ideology, we propose an ambitious investment in research, in hydrogen, in synthetic petrol, or in biofuels. we'll set up a real network of short circuits. finally, as we have said time and again, these efforts will be useless if the eu continues to allow these harmful free trade agreements. there is another model of common sense, and it was applauded last week in france.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam president of the commission, mr minister, for the last french presidency, the european council tomorrow is once again going to be historic. my group welcomes the spirit of responsibility shown by all the member states and the work of the commission to achieve this. madam president, the candidate status of ukraine is a fitting recognition of the sacrifice of the ukrainian people for our european values. we could not ignore - as i have said many times in this house - the blood shed in the name of the ideal of peace, democracy and sovereignty in this unjust war. i hope that the same spirit of responsibility will also be felt by the members of the council on the question of the western balkans. we also have a duty to build the european path of these nations. this is the position of my group, which is also in favour of moldova's candidate status. the council will also have to decide on the follow-up to the conference on the future of europe. i know that some people think that these institutional issues are secondary and, by comparison, certainly not among the urgent ones of our time. i think they're wrong. what is our near future? we europeans? the european union is facing a series of crises which will require europe to take coherent, ambitious and rapid decisions: inflation will become permanent, with the possibility of having an impact on sovereign debts; food crises, humanitarian crises and migration crises are likely; climate change will continue to work if we do not act. and in the face of these challenges, are we prepared today, with our institutions, to act? perhaps we can once again reproduce the miracle of the covid crisis, which, with the recovery plan, created a massive, rapid and urgent response from the european institutions, a real momentum of european solidarity, with a speed that we had never known before. but some states will probably use our institutional architecture, including the right of veto, to block the efforts needed to deal with these new crises. and that is precisely why, madam president, mr minister, we will not leave the institutional construction in the lurch. this is a big job. some member states - and, forgive me, the same ones - are blocking the necessary reforms. vetoes are not vetoes of the people, but vetoes and blackmail of governments in difficulty. the deadlock on the global minimum tax is both a symptom and a warning for us, and we are obviously paying attention to all these points. we have so much to do and we must not disappoint. mr minister, madam president, you know that our political family is carrying out this institutional reform in europe. we have a majority of members in the council who are outraged by the behaviour of certain states. you know the public will not accept the spectacle of inaction on these issues. so my watchword, and the watchword of my group, will be to open up this reform and to follow it up in the european parliament, which has opened the way to this procedure.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the war in ukraine has now lasted for more than four months. four months of vladimir putin committing daily the irreparable by invading a sovereign state, in defiance of international law, by setting fire to a neighbouring country and causing bloodshed, by committing abject war crimes against civilian populations, by endangering the security of our entire continent. i have said this many times before and this is not the first time we have debated this, but i would like to say it again with the utmost firmness on behalf of our left group here in the european parliament: europe must speak out loudly to continue to denounce this unacceptable aggression and to provide unwavering support to the ukrainian people, whose heroic resistance commands our deepest respect. the return of war to our doorsteps and the tragedy suffered by the ukrainians have brought into our debates, and rightly so, the question of their membership of the european construction. the appeal of president zelensky and the ukrainian people must and should be heard. and the prospect of ukraine's rapprochement with the european union is a strong political symbol in this particular context. we must show our solidarity with the ukrainians by concrete actions. but let's be honest, we also owe them transparency, respect and honesty. ukraine is now a country at war. its institutions are still fragile, its standard of living is still far from the standards of the rest of the european union. so, as we have always said, enlargement can make sense for ukraine, as for other countries on our european continent. but it must always be done with the aim of harmonization from above, so that all the peoples of europe benefit from both social and democratic progress. we all know that even if peace returns in the coming months - which we all hope for collectively - the road to accession is still long. i say again to the ukrainians here: the european union stands by you. we share a common destiny. the accession is a path that must be explored seriously, without false promises. it is a message both of brotherhood and hope, but also of truth, which can be given.
mr president, mr vice-president, this council will be marked by the growing concerns, of course, on the economic front: inflation has reached unprecedented levels and is now hitting hard at the heart of millions of citizens in our countries who, by working or having worked all their lives, are no longer able to get by. will we have the means to sustain the war effort that will be needed to deal with the conflict in ukraine after covid? to achieve this, it is urgent to rebuild the capacity of our states to act by finally getting serious about the budget. russia has enough to keep the war going for a long time. and you know why? it has only 17% of its gdp in debt. a country like mine, with a debt of 113 percent of its gdp, is infinitely more vulnerable, especially when half of its debt is held by foreign actors. and that, i believe, is one of the much too under-mentioned keys to the battle ahead. we all know that we are facing very strong tensions for families, for workers, for companies in our countries. it is urgent that the european states which are still living under unsustainable budgetary illusions finally have the courage to return to the economic equilibrium which is essential to take action in the long term and to face future crises and to guarantee our sovereignty.
in writing. the european parliament's mandate and the expectations of the citizens of the european union towards the european council are clear: the convening of a convention for treaty amendments to implement the proposals of the conference on the future of europe. the council is clearly not showing any particular interest in the conference on the future of europe. the czech presidency will now have to make heads into nails! we greens will continue to exert pressure to ensure that the proposals from the conference are actually implemented. we commit ourselves to the participants in the conference to continue to speak out loudly with them for the implementation of the proposals.
in writing. it is important that the union at all levels the european commission, the european parliament and the member states ukraine, moldova and georgia, together, send a political signal that responds appropriately to their aspirations. it is and remains essential that geopolitical considerations do not undermine internal cohesion and the ability to conduct effective policies in all relevant areas, and that the balance between further enlargement and further integration of the union is ensured. further enlargement, however desirable, is only possible if it does not undermine the union's capacity for integration, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that any accession becomes effective only when all the conditions are fully met. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is of course also true of the countries of the western balkans, which, however, should not be put behind ukraine and moldova in their european aspirations and claims for geopolitical reasons.
in writing. eu leaders will meet tomorrow to discuss eu enlargement and the eu candidate status of ukraine and moldova. this is the right and straightforward decision. ukraine has been defending its independence and at the same time the whole of europe from the russian war of aggression for four months now. moldova, the poorest country in europe, has once again taken in more than 100,000 ukrainian refugees. these countries want to be part of the west. their path towards the european union must be supported, even though full membership is still a long way off. stable governance with the rule of law, democracy and human rights safeguarded, a functioning market economy and the ability to meet the obligations of membership are prerequisites for eu membership. in order to achieve these, the eu must give all possible support to moldova and ukraine.
the european union cannot be insensitive to the call of the european peoples to integrate, subject to the necessary conditions, the european partnership. the granting of candidate status to ukraine opens up a path that must be followed consistently, without creating false expectations or frustrations. it should also be linked to an effort to speed up the accession negotiations of the western balkan countries. the political, economic, social and military support of the european union to ukraine in the context of the war should be reiterated and strengthened by the council. in addition, it is essential to implement global cooperation policies to mitigate the impact of war on value chains, in particular on access to energy and the creation of better conditions for food production and distribution, avoiding a humanitarian catastrophe of major proportions, in particular in africa. the challenges facing the european union require firm and appropriate responses. i therefore welcome the debate on the proposal to launch a european political community encompassing the applicant countries and allowing for deeper dialogue and cooperation in dealing with matters of common interest such as the security, stability and prosperity of the european continent.
before i move on to the next item on the agenda, i have an announcement to make. the s&d group and renew europe group have sent the president decisions on the change of appointments to committees and delegations. these decisions will be published in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the date of this announcement.
the next item is the report by mr barry andrews and mr petros kokkalis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation and attainment of the sustainable development goals (2022/2002 (ini)) (a90174/2022). this debate is taking place under the same conditions as regards the speaker's podium, the blue card and the catch-the-eye system. i do not need to repeat them, but i shall enter the debate immediately and give the floor to one of the two rapporteurs, mr barry andrews.
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner, every issue that we’ve been debating today and tomorrow in the european parliament is linked to the sustainable development goals, and yet the sdgs have fallen dramatically off the political agenda. seven years since the eu is the lead negotiator of the sdgs. no european country is on track to achieve the sdgs. in fact, according to the sdsn report, no progress has been made over the past two years in the eu. no progress. we talk about building back better. we talk about a just transition for workers. we talk about global climate justice, brokering peace and protecting democracy. and yet, the framework for delivering all of these objectives lies right under our noses. i would like to convince you today that the sdgs are our last and best resort. the eu has often been criticised for ignoring the concerns of ordinary citizens, as well as the grievances of developing countries. the sdgs are an opportunity to change this perception, because at their heart is the notion of justice. while we policymakers are terrified at the prospect of the end of the world, many of our citizens are terrified about the end of the month. without our citizens on board, we put the success of the paris agreement at risk. what good is it if we reduce our emissions by 55% by 2030, if inequality continues to rise, as it has done in recent years? if wages continue to stagnate while the cost of living rises? income and wealth, inequality is an example of one sdg where we are failing spectacularly. wealth distribution in today’s world is more lopsided than ever. the wealthiest 500 people on the planet have amassed $7 trillion in wealth, an increase of $1 trillion in wealth since the beginning of the pandemic. if, for example, there was a global wealth tax on these 500 people that left them with eur 1 billion each, we could feed and educate every child in the world. we could have universal health care. we could achieve sdg 2, 3 and 4 and still have many billions to spare. and inequality has a tipping point beyond which we end up with social unrest, with conflict and massive political change. we shouldn’t, therefore, be surprised when developing countries cannot be persuaded to do some of the heavy lifting on the issues that i’m talking about, when we are cutting aid, when we are blocking access to vaccines, when we are enabling gross inequality and erecting barriers to trade. and what good is it to have achieved our european climate targets if developing countries can’t afford to decarbonise, or if they are preoccupied by conflict or food insecurity on their own territories or mountains of unserviceable debt? by recognising our goals and those of our partners as inextricable, the sdgs are a blueprint for climate justice. i think that the centre of the challenge is governance. the fact is that the eu still has no strategy for implementing the sdgs. this is despite the calls from the european council in european council conclusions in 2017 for a strategy. yes, there is alignment, but there is no strategy and there is no roadmap for implementation of that strategy. it is welcome that the eu will present an eu voluntary review by 2023, but a review is no replacement for a genuine strategy with concrete targets, with benchmarks and a new approach to leadership and resources. leadership is crucial. this report contains concrete guidelines informed by the leading experts in civil society for revamping the implementation of the sdgs in the eu and beyond. it is political and it is clear. with this report and your support in the vote tomorrow, we will provide the eu with a democratic mandate to show true leadership on the sdgs once and for all.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me start by saying clearly that i welcome this own initiative report. let me thank the rapporteur. in his most recent report on progress toward the sdgs, antónio guterres notes that years or even decades of development progress have been halted or reversed by the pandemic, and that was before russia invaded ukraine. so we are not on track, but in these challenging times, the 2030 agenda vision is particularly precious. it offers a blueprint that should inspire us to mitigate crisis and build back better. the commission remains fully committed to this agenda under the leadership of ms von der leyen. the commission has presented an ambitious and comprehensive policy programme to deliver on sustainability in the eu and beyond. several transformative initiatives have been launched since the beginning of this commission’s mandate – the european green deal, the climate law, the renewed sustainable finance strategy, the pillar of social rights action plan, an updated european skills agenda and a european education area, to name just a few. we have integrated the sdgs in the european semester, a process that will be further reinforced. and eurostat’s annual monitoring of progress towards the sdgs is now part of the spring package of the semester. as you know, prompted by the pandemic, the eu adopted, at record speed, next generation eu, and this includes taking action on the sdgs on which eurostat has concluded that we were lagging behind, such as combating climate change and environmental degradation. as your report notes, a major feature of the recent revision of the better regulation framework is to require that, from now on, all commission impact assessments, legislative proposals and evaluation integrate an assessment on how the proposal contributes to the implementation of the sdgs. we are active at home, though of course also trying to act multilaterally. at multilateral level, we actively support the annual meeting of the high—level forum on sustainable development, and i’m delighted that several of you will also be there as part of the eu delegation to take stock of all these achievements, but also to reflect on the remaining challenges. the commission will present at next year’s un high-level political forum a comprehensive voluntary review of the eu’s internal and external implementation of the sdgs. voluntary reviews are the core of the 2030 agenda global accountability architecture, and i am grateful that your report calls for ambition here. we want this review to be a comprehensive, political and inclusive document, laying down our main actions, internal and external, to implement the sdgs and setting out the way for enhanced efforts ahead. we are looking forward to our cooperation with parliament in its preparation.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, dear commissioner, it’s my turn now to congratulate the co-rapporteurs. we worked very well together in order to obtain a good result as a report, taking into account that this will represent the new mandate for the high-level political forum next month. well, there are there are only eight years left to implement the sdgs until 2030 and we are facing increasing challenges. the sdgs’ implementation progress is dramatically damaged, as you said, by the current geopolitical, health and humanitarian crises. therefore we must act to ensure that the social inequalities resulting from those crises and well-being- and economy-related impacts are minimised; that measures taken to protect the environment, climate and security are carried out in a socially fair and inclusive way, with a comprehensive mapping of the financial envelopes of eu policies, which have been reinforced by the additional next generation eu funds to create a greener, more digital and more resilient europe, as well as the social and demographic priorities set by the sdgs and the european pillar of social rights to be fully implemented. furthermore, we must have a holistic approach to the sdgs in the eu, in the use of beyond—gdp indicators as well as reforming the european semester to take due account of the sdgs.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, absolutely no one can say that they have not understood that climate change is a deadly roller for absolutely everyone, absolutely everywhere. this is not a race against the clock, it's a race against death. the reality is, more than 40 degrees in france, a few days ago, a terrible fire in spain, drought, heat wave, on absolutely all continents. in the face of the climate threat, the sustainable development goals are both a compass and a thermometer. the compass tells the course, and we all know the massive effort we need to make now to change our lifestyles. the thermometer tells us where we are, and it's a wake-up call, because the reality is here: climate change threatens everyone. this is an emergency for everyone and we must act quickly. all europeans must be protected, of course, and especially those who live in the most remote areas, on islands, overseas. but i also want to reiterate our responsibility to support our partners in developing countries, because europe's solidarity in the face of climate change cannot be limited to the geographical limits of the european continent.
for the greens/efa group mr president, we are voting on a consensus report on the implementation of the sustainable development goals. that's good news. we all agree on the objectives and the need to act. but if we do not act concretely, objective by objective, we will never succeed. for example, last week wto members reached an ambitious agreement to achieve sdg 14.6 on the prohibition of fisheries subsidies harmful to the marine environment. this is historic. the agreement prohibits subsidies to illegal fishing, but also all subsidies to vessels targeting overfished species. except that the agreement does not prohibit subsidies to encourage fishing capacity and says nothing about fuel subsidies. so that's almost €18 billion of public money globally, some of which is being over-fished and leaving millions of people hungry and poor. we'll have to go further. as humanitarian crises and climate change accelerate, european and global policies are still far from aligned with the sdgs. is the common agricultural policy compatible with the paris agreement? no, i'm not going. are trade policies compatible with food security? no, i'm not going. achieving the sdgs means first and foremost taking concrete action to transform our policies.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, because it was the first time that the european recovery plan was conceived, it was seen as politically unfeasible. and yet we did. and since its launch, the effects on our growth, on our gdp, have been significant. the financing of 'maprimerénov' or the french health insurance system, the modernisation of hospitals in romania, high-speed rail lines in italy - all this is very concrete for europeans. yet, these successes are not the result of chance. the success of the recovery plan is due to one thing in common, commissioner, between the beneficiary countries: they have respected the objectives and conditions agreed in common to receive the money. some have embarked on a course of courageous and historic reforms. they kept their promises to their partners. today, commissioner, poland is not complying with the conditions imposed on it, in particular by the president of the european commission herself: reinstatement of arbitrarily dismissed judges; end of judicial reform; abolition of the disciplinary chamber or any other similar procedure. and so we in the european parliament remain determined, particularly at renew. not a single euro should end up in the pockets of those who ridicule the democratic institutions of poland which have been so harshly torn from history. the same applies to hungary, of course. ladies and gentlemen, the european recovery plan is a success, that is indisputable. we must now complete it by finalising the own resources for its repayment and preventing it from being paid to those who persist in not respecting the values on which our union is founded - the union which is the origin of these funds.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more than 10 million people have benefited from erasmus+ since its launch in 1987. and how many others still dream of it? how many dream of travelling, meeting, learning and experiencing european culture through mobility? at the conference on the future of europe, the 800 citizens told us, they made it a priority: we must encourage a culture of exchange and promote european identity and european diversity. and the first response that was identified was erasmus. the programme has evolved considerably since 1987 and is now open to apprentices, high school pupils, college students, adults in training, teachers and jobseekers. erasmus +, in 35 years, has expanded, democratized to better match the developments in our society. however, discouraging stories are regularly heard from the field: a student who was unable to leave because of his disability, due to the lack of suitable support structures, an apprentice whose family did not authorise the mobility project, a young person who was unable to realise his project due to lack of financial means or an adult in training for whom the remote geographical situation was too much of a hindrance. and all those young people who simply think that erasmus is not for them, that it is only for higher education students or for those with money, parental support, for those living in big cities. in short, for others. erasmus is still too often thought of as the european success that only a few people can enjoy. we have to change that. every young person should be able to say to himself: 'erasmus is for me'. it is on this basis that the european parliament has negotiated and obtained, in the new erasmus+ programme 2021-2027, an entire chapter devoted to the inclusion of what we call people with fewer opportunities, i.e. those who face geographical, social, cultural, health, disability or educational obstacles. for this commitment to inclusion to become a reality for erasmus 2021-2027, it was therefore essential to look back and see what had been done to include these disadvantaged groups, either in isolation, by project promoters, or more concertedly, at the level of the erasmus+ national agencies, in the absence of a real european strategy. that is what i have done with my fictitious colleagues in this implementation report. we have come to a comprehensive report with clear findings and recommendations for the current programme. the analysis of the situation in the 2014-2020 programming period clearly shows several obstacles, which i wanted to highlight in this report. first, the crucial need to adapt grants and financial aid to the situation of the participants. i am thinking in particular of pre-financing, which would allow participants not to have to advance money. this is a point that is really a recurrent one among project promoters. a second obstacle is the quasi-structural malfunctioning of the commission's computer tools. we know that this is a recurring problem which still exists in the current programme. an association with few resources, few staff, is really in trouble and this is something that must be corrected. a third crucial point is the support provided to teachers, counsellors and project teams. they are often volunteers and need help to complete the files to be provided, a process which can be complex. without them, most programmes cannot be implemented and run optimally. better support would also give more confidence to the sometimes reluctant families and participants, while ensuring that projects run optimally. finally, it emerged that there was a lack of accurate and reliable data on the participation of people with fewer opportunities, which would allow us to monitor the programme's performance in this area. the recommendations in this report are the result of several months of work, consultation with the actors on the ground, project associations, researchers, authors of the eprs study and close collaboration with my fictitious colleagues, whom i would like to thank for their work, their collaboration towards a truly more inclusive erasmus +, a cohesive factor and a vector of european citizenship in these times of mistrust and withdrawal.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the emphasis on inclusion in education and mobility is very important at a time when we are experiencing the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on the younger generation, when covid-19 has also deepened the gaps in education, in their outcomes. and we'll be catching up for a long time to come for what we've missed in the last two years. so all these inclusive measures in both erasmus+ and solidarity corps are very important. the result should be equal opportunities for all applicants and their support, from the application to the project itself. we therefore stress the need for increased funding and call for an increase for 2023. the erasmus+ programme should also allow for inclusion for exchanges with third countries, including the uk, and it is very important that it promotes inclusive education and the inclusion of students from ukraine as well as cooperation with ukrainian schools. let me conclude with a note. for this programme to be truly inclusive, it must first be significantly increased.
madam president, madam commissioner, education opens the way for our young people to travel their whole lives. for those who have much, it's a path of roses that will take them far. for those who have little, a winding and bumpy road. erasmus+ is an excellent tool for reducing differences, for educating in values, for breaking down borders and for creating european citizenship. but we need to make sure that all young people have access to the programme, and mobility grants are the way to do that. families with fewer resources cannot afford an erasmus with the amount of the scholarships. we must ensure that there is a financial supplement to the scholarships to facilitate the inclusion of students with fewer resources in the erasmus programme. it is a shame that in communities like mine, the region of murcia, your government offers a paltry thirty euros a month of supplement. how much is thirty euros in milan or berlin? we must ensure that erasmus is affordable and opens up the best paths of personal and professional development for everyone, including those who are most disadvantaged.
madam president, madam commissioner, as we celebrate the 35th anniversary of the erasmus programme this year, let us make a joint commitment: let us finally remove the last obstacles to the least favoured people from benefiting from these emblematic mobility schemes. of course, efforts have been made over the past 35 years, but many obstacles remain. they are economic, cultural, health, disability, geographical isolation, language barriers, learning difficulties or simply lack of knowledge of the programme itself or its administrative complexity. obviously, we have to do something about it. first of all, everyone should know that they can go on an erasmus course. we must emphasise the role of teachers and institutions as the driving force behind the programme and the support of future learners. we can also give greater support to the activities of alumni networks by encouraging them to act as ambassadors, for example during the erasmus days. the level of grants is also often considered insufficient. it is essential to increase financial support, to ensure that grants correspond to the living standards of the host countries. finally, and i will end with this, the simplification of the administrative procedures of the programme must continue, in particular through initiatives such as the european student card. so let's keep up the mobilization.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the quality of these exchanges on this subject which is obviously so dear to us. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs farreng, and all the members who have spoken, as well as the members of the cult committee, for the very relevant recommendations. on one point in particular, i share your view of the key role of the national agencies implementing erasmus+ in increasing the reach of the programme to people from diverse backgrounds. at national level, these agencies are well placed to know the specific target groups for which efforts should be made; they can focus on these groups. i would like to take this opportunity to inform you that, for the first time, a meeting was held between all the directors of the national agencies and the commissioner responsible for the erasmus+ programme. we had this meeting last week and i was really interested to hear their impressive activities in this regard. we had a presentation, among other things, on the inclusion strategy developed by the romanian agency, for example. the new resource centre for inclusion in education and training has just been launched this year by the croatian national agency. this complements the already very active youth resource centre in belgium. indeed, today the recommendation is that all agencies can follow these good examples and have an inclusion strategy that allows them to better communicate, target and bring to the programme those who are not yet convinced or who face obstacles to do so. and i can assure you, madam rapporteur, that the question of computer tools has not escaped our attention. my team and i will ensure that improvements are made at a different pace. some things have already changed since the beginning of this year, but we must redouble our efforts. so i am simply looking forward to continuing to work with you to strengthen the inclusive dimension of erasmus+. i am convinced that our efforts will pay off and that we will soon also be able to see together that the erasmus+ programme has become an even more spontaneous, visible and appreciated reference in terms of inclusion in the education, training, youth and sport sectors. thank you again, from the bottom of my heart, for the practical recommendations. of course, my team and i are at your disposal and look forward to your continued cooperation.
i would like to thank all the speakers who have given their views to this debate. i also thank you, commissioner, for your reply with proposals. in conclusion, i would like to welcome the work of the commission in publishing the guidelines for the implementation of the erasmus+ and european solidarity corps strategy for inclusion and diversity, which, combined with the recommendations of this report, can significantly improve the inclusion measures in erasmus+. we have therefore learned from the past in this report and we must now seize all the opportunities that the current programme offers to further strengthen and we have seen how important it was to strengthen the possibilities of inclusion. i am talking about the opportunities for the inclusion of apprentices, the fact that we can develop many initiatives for the youngest, because it is from an early age that we prepare ourselves for openness to europe, to habits abroad, to this irreplaceable experience, because we also adapt. all these measures must therefore be followed. to do this, there is a nerve of warfare which is the budget. i admit that the budget i saw for 2023 is a source of concern, because we need to increase it more drastically every year. this budget is also part of the erasmus inclusion measures and we therefore expect a lot, as my colleague said earlier. this report therefore draws lessons from the past and sets the stage for an even more inclusive erasmus in the future. i hope, of course, that this report, which will be put to the vote, will win a very wide unanimity in this house and will be a strong signal to all europeans, young and old.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if we share the desire expressed in the report to combat poverty and hunger and to establish respectful and fruitful relations with the african continent, it seems to us that your ideological assumptions are misleading you. you think in terms of big global trade when the solution lies in the creation of local supply chains - what we call localism - in food self-sufficiency that combines research and cooperation, in the right of people to live on their land. you only see relations as adherence to your globalist economic model which is polluting, destructive of local sectors and even of traditional economies. and then you bind bind free movement of goods and people. the text also links trade to safe and organised immigration, which means the continuing submersion of europe. it is time to get rid of your quasi-theological vision of 'no-borderism' and free movement, which has been made into a theocratic dogma. you claim to be involved in world peace. in reality, you are preparing the enslavement of peoples and people to economic and predatory logic on both sides of the mediterranean.
madam president, tomorrow a regulation will be put to the vote without debate, without impact assessment, without scientific results, to extend the use of the european union's digital covid certificate until june 2023. are you aware of the results of the public consultation on this extension proposal organised by the commission between 3 february and 8 april this year? more than 385 000 contributions were submitted by european citizens. the massive turnout shows that an overwhelming majority are opposed to this extension of the qr code. thanks to a letter that has been mysteriously kept confidential until now, you may find that the commission is simply dismissing the results of this consultation. why hold a public consultation if the commission decides not to take it into account? i have contacted the european ombudsman and the identity and democracy group has tabled amendments to remove this unjustified proposal. this highly undemocratic attitude of the commission must not be endorsed by the european parliament. this proposal should even be removed from the agenda. in any case, for the sake of our freedoms, we will vote against it.
for the greens/efa group mr president, our dependence on russian gas poses economic, social, ecological and physical risks to europe. this phrase is not new. it dates from the year 2000. it calls for a break from this dependence through diversification of sources of supply and sufficient storage obligations to cover the needs of the population and limit price increases. so this is 22 years ago. for 22 years we have been pretending to act and doing nothing. we are finally there today with the text we are adopting. except that in the meantime, putin has come to power and, with our active contribution, extended the hold of gazprom. except that in the meantime, the climate crisis has accelerated and is forcing us not just to get off russian gas, but to get off gas altogether as quickly as possible. so he is happy that the union is finally deciding to act in the face of the terrible war that putin is waging in ukraine. but we also sound the alarm: if the storage obligations we impose lock us in gas for several decades, then we will be violating the paris agreement and we will cause a lot of human suffering. so no new dependence on fossil fuels, then. it's the climate and the peace.
mr president, the federalists like to repeat the quote of jean monnet: 'the european union will be the sum of the solutions to the crises'. europe has not, however, waited for the european union to learn from its history. de gaulle understood this during the cold war: to organise an economic and industrial policy of distrust towards russia is never, in the long term, a good solution for our continent. transferring control of our strategic gas reserves to a technocracy without democratic legitimacy is neither the will of the french nor their interests. emmanuel macron has agreed to a secretly negotiated plan that awaits our sovereignty. the european states must retain the right to strategic independence and to the energy security policy of their choice. if tomorrow a country, france or another, wants to continue to source its gas mainly from one or another country, it must be able to do so. commissioner, the european union will not make us believe that storing algerian gas or qatari gas will be a better defence of european culture or democracy in the future. similarly, i do not think that buying more and more shale gas from the americans will make any progress in protecting the environment.
a uachtaráin, as the russian artillery barrage continues to pound ukraine, the notion that putin was forced into definitive action by nato becomes more and more ludicrous. the war has changed everything and has forced europe’s hand, accelerating our green deal ambitions and fundamentally altering our overall energy policy but – as vice-president timmermans said – uniting us and not dividing us, as war criminal putin expected. gas will be an important part of the eu’s decarbonisation pathway, but the situation poses significant risks for security of supply. this required immediate legislative action on the security of gas supply regulation and the existing internal market for gas regulation. the importance of diversification for security of supply is evident, and this applies in particular to my own country, ireland – and they’d want to wake up to it. i am also glad to see the reinforced contingency planning to the gas coordination group and its crisis management sub—group included. the focus placed on these files and the speed at which they are being addressed should be commended. although many share this credit, i would like to join with vice-president timmermans in particularly thanking jerzy buzek and cristian buşoi for their diligent work.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, russia's war in ukraine has revealed our over-reliance on russian energy products. this episode shows us how important it is to limit all our dependence on energy imports. our strategic autonomy depends on it. i welcome the initial progress in the negotiations on the review of the gas market, which is an opportunity to invest in the energies of the future such as renewables, but also in low-carbon hydrogen from electrolytic sources, which i would have liked to see promoted, mr vice-president, in the repowereu communication, rather than seeing the import of renewable hydrogen promoted, for example. reactivating our coal-fired power stations is also not an acceptable solution to save gas. but we are all in agreement on gas storage. in just two months, we have succeeded in putting in place a european solidarity and an effective resilience plan. let us therefore continue our work towards european energy independence.
president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be back before you in this plenary session to discuss a subject which is of great concern to us all the tax question and our collective progress in the fight against tax optimisation, tax evasion and tax dumping. i believe that this is an element of european identity, of the effectiveness of our project, which we must pursue. i take this opportunity to commend our collective progress in this respect, the commitment of the european commission, the personal commitment of commissioner gentiloni and the commitment, ladies and gentlemen, of many of you, of all political sensibilities, to combat this scourge on the right scale, that is, at european level and, through our european action, at international level. i regret to note today that the ecofin council in june came very close to agreeing on the proposal for a directive on minimum taxation, but has not succeeded at this stage in doing so. i am convinced, however, that the discussions will continue. this is our commitment as president of the council, until the last day, until the last hour, to overcome the veto of one last member state by midnight on 30 june. we're working on it all the time, i can assure you. this deadlock at this stage is regrettable. i would remind you that we were politically and technically ready for this dossier to be adopted and for our fellow citizens, who are waiting for strong measures, to have the right to see them finally implemented. i want to make two very brief remarks on this. firstly, it raises the question - this is the subject of the debate that many of you have asked - of our decision-making rules, obviously. there is no consensus in the council today to change this rule of unanimity in tax matters. as you know, this is the nature of a unanimous rule: to change it, unanimous consent is required. nevertheless, the president of the republic was again very clear to your house on 9 may, when he said that we supported - france supported - the development of these rules, not only in this area, but as a matter of priority in the tax area. in this respect, i believe - as we were saying yesterday - that the work of the conference on the future of europe has been useful and enlightening. many of our fellow citizens are urging us to change our decision-making methods to make them more efficient and more rapid in this vital area of tax and social justice. i say nevertheless that we must move forward within the framework that we have today, with the maximum commitment, as i said. despite this requirement for unanimity, the council has succeeded in adopting, over the last few months or years, often jointly with the parliament and at the initiative of the european commission, a set of decisive legislative instruments in the tax field. for example, on vat rates, but also on e-commerce, on the rules applicable to payment service providers and to small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. we have led, and we should be proud of it, precisely this international effort in the field of minimum taxation and fair taxation of multinationals. we are very close to a breakthrough which can be transposed into europe in a historic way. i believe that with this commitment, by thinking about how our decision-making is evolving, but by acting now, we can achieve this fundamental breakthrough in the coming days and weeks. i repeat, the french presidency, which is coming to an end soon, will devote all its efforts to this until the last minute. i thank you for your support and for the commitment of the european commission.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, minister, first of all, let me thank parliament for bringing this topic back to the agenda of the plenary at this critical moment. this is a time where the eu must show unity. unfortunately, the ecofin meeting on minimum taxation showed the opposite – on the responsibility of a single member state. establishing a global minimum taxation should be a goal that unites us. we need to ensure fairness and equity both for our economies and our societies. for this reason, last october, we welcomed the international global agreement on both pillar one and pillar two. we all agreed to this international deal – all the european member states unanimously, without any exception. we have then worked tirelessly to present a proposal for a directive within a few weeks. six months ago, we passed on the torch to the french presidency – and let me pay tribute to the enormous work that the french presidency and minister le maire did with great enthusiasm and determination. this allowed to overcome a few technical hurdles and to reassure progressively all member states on their fruition. meanwhile, you, the european parliament gave its strong political support to the implementing directive with a very strong vote. and yet one single member state raised last—minute opposition prior to the last ecofin, while it had endorsed the agreement at international level, but also the implementing directive in the previous ecofin meetings. let me quickly address the arguments that were used. first, the current context of the war and the economic situation. well, the current context of the war mentioned by hungary has affected us all, of course! this is a reality which has increased the need for adopting initiatives that are revenue generators for the eu economy and enablers to protect european citizens against the effects of putin’s senseless war. indeed, hungary had endorsed in previous council meetings the directive, including the last one in may with the war going on since three months of the time. minimum taxation benefits all member states. a global minimum tax of 15% is estimated to generate around usd 150 billion in additional tax revenues annually. why give it up? the second argument was the ongoing work on pillar one. i repeat that both pillars are important to me, to the commission, to the council and to parliament. i repeat it tirelessly: both pillars have to be implemented. we need a global minimal taxation, and we need to ensure that the giants, especially the giants of the digital economy, pay their share of taxes where their profits are made, and not only where their headquarters are established. we will continue, as i have formalised, also with the availability to make a statement annexed to the minutes of the ecofin meeting, to monitor closely the ongoing negotiations in the oecd on the multilateral convention on pillar one. we will submit a report on progress on pillar one to the council by june 2023 and reassess the situation accordingly with a view to submitting a legislative proposal if appropriate. our citizens’ expectations are very high and we cannot fail to deliver. so the responsibility rests with the last opposing member state. let me be crystal clear. of course, we encourage hungary to reconsider its position, but as the french minister said, together with parliament and with the council, in any case we will not give up!
on behalf of the s&d club. thank you, mr. chairman. last year, as many as 137 countries agreed to introduce a minimum tax rate for large multinational companies. for us socialists, it was a great success. not only is this something that is fair and just, and something that we've been pointing out for years, but in this situation, such taxation is absolutely necessary. we need the money because there's no end in sight to this crisis. a system in which a small tradesman pays a higher tax rate than a multinational corporation is deeply unfair. each year, europe loses about 190 billion euros because large companies do not pay taxes. moreover, they move from state to state looking for the cheapest tax haven. that's why this veto is immoral in the first place. the hungarian people can now clearly see that mr. orbán doesn't care how they live, but acts in the interests of foreign companies that make extra money off our misery. - thank you. - thank you.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, minister, we have reached a historic agreement between 137 countries in the framework of the oecd that no company in the world will be taxed at less than 15%. this is a historic development. of these 137 states, 27 were unanimous, and we must of course apply this agreement in the european union with ambition. unfortunately, as you said, one member state recently vetoed the implementation of this agreement at the last minute, even though it had accepted the principle and the terms of the agreement. i know that the french presidency is working to resolve this difficulty because what is at stake is european leadership in the world on the fight against money laundering, the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud. beyond this indispensable agreement, which our fellow citizens are waiting for, this incident highlights the limits of unanimity in tax matters. the treaties provide for unanimity in certain areas. when it turns into a whim, a veto or blackmail, as it sometimes does, in defiance of the word given, which is not done between friends, it is not acceptable. we must therefore think about this and act to equip ourselves with the tools to avoid paralysing decision-making processes in the future, particularly in tax matters, and the convention which is now being opened provides us with a unique opportunity to do so.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, tax evasion by multinationals costs us tens of billions of euros every year and the far right is its faithful accomplice. she just demonstrated it to us. the countries which are currently blocking the introduction of a minimum rate of corporation tax in europe are the reactionary and authoritarian governments of hungary and poland. the far right, which claims to embody the people, once again shows its true face: that of a loyal servant of the powerful and billionaires. the cynical veto used by orbán is also the same one that can allow european tax havens to block any measure of tax justice in europe. this veto is the systematic obstacle to progress which must be removed. that is why it is absolutely and urgently necessary to abolish the rule of unanimity in tax matters which condemns us to allow tax evaders to steal from us with impunity. my dear colleagues, we cannot wait forever for this rule to change either. what is to prevent us from moving forward now in enhanced cooperation with all those who wish to do so and from building coalitions to go immediately with those who want to move forward? moreover, i say, emmanuel macron's france has agreed to lower the level of ambition of this text and has failed, in reality, to reach an agreement at european level. so if you want to be credible, go all the way, engage in enhanced cooperation, or even say that you are ready to go alone and introduce a universal tax. too many countries are content with the status quo and do nothing, including france. but the situation is no longer tenable. let's stand up and refuse to let tax evaders impose their law on the people.
mr president my fellow members of parliament! let me ask you to at least for a minute to stop the usual hungarian watering and think. think about it, because if a member state is using its right under the treaties to stop a process that i believe is harmful to europe, then it might be worthwhile to think about why a member state is doing something. ladies and gentlemen! let's not be enemies of ourselves. there's a war. officer gentiloni has already mentioned it. we should be focusing on indemnifying instead of burdening others. the commissioner mentioned that this is a two-pillar package, the first one is that we can't move forward by taxing big tech companies. it was a package, and it was supposed to be both. third, we're going to be ahead of the game. our international partners in asia and america have not implemented what we are already trying to do. this puts european companies at a competitive disadvantage. finally, the oecd has not yet developed implementing rules. our ships don't have time to prepare until january 1st. the commission has made some cosmetic proposals. instead, let us continue to work towards unity for the sake of europe's competitiveness.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unanimity cannot be used as a blockade, it cannot be used for blackmail. the council must be much more than the sum of the 27 national selfishness we sometimes see. in a field such as taxation, it is essential that this oecd agreement is put into practice, because it will mean more social justice. it is also important that those who make the most money are the ones who contribute the most. it is also essential to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance, which can be done through harmonisation and which, according to the european commission's own estimates, amounts to about seven annual budgets, or about eur 1 billion per year in losses. this means that we can have more revenue and not penalize, but on the contrary, we can relieve the european citizens. it is also essential, and i will end with this, that pillar i be used for the new own resources of the european union and that the digital giants give ... (the president cut the speaker off).
mr president, i could almost hear the screams when, after significant work by the commission and by the french presidency, a last-minute blockade was erected yet again. but pointing fingers is easy but doesn’t really work. yes, orbán torpedoed a european minimum tax, harming his own citizens for his own narrow gain. but let’s be frank, and i hate to say this, but this is also the commission’s doing. if you look in a mirror you will be reminded of dorian gray, whose pact with the devil also didn’t pay off. because if you put the rule of law up for grabs once, you will be pressured to do so again and again. so let’s stop the endless bargaining game and look for a path that cannot be blocked. we can isolate orbán and implement this deal. europe can still escape the faustian fate with long overdue majority voting or with enhanced cooperation. let’s get this deal done.
mr president, well, the situation is indeed very serious. the deal is about to derail. and it is us europeans who are about to derail it because of the veto of hungary. how are we going to explain that to our international partners if that happens? secondly, i think, mr beaune, the way you have tried to overcome the veto has come to a dead end. the logic of accepting the blackmail and doing secret deals behind doors has come to a dead end. it doesn’t work. and also we have to say that what kind of working methods will the council adopt if this is the logic for the way forward? which is going to be the next file if we accept that logic? this needs to stop. and the only way to stop that is to go for an enhanced cooperation in the short term. i’m very happy to hear commissioner gentiloni saying that we’re not going to give up: the parliament will not give up, and not giving up today means finding other ways, overcoming the veto and go for an enhanced cooperation. and finally, i think we need to address the issue of unanimity in fiscal matters. member states need to address that seriously, because this needs to stop.
mr president, i warmly welcome this debate so that i can put on record that my party, sinn féin, totally opposes moving away from unanimity on tax matters. i also want to put on record our support for the oecd deal and the eu directive implementing it. hungary has been cynical in opposing the deal. it’s reneging on its word. all those that signed up to the oecd deal in the eu and across the world, including the us, should implement the deal as soon as possible. there is, unfortunately, another wave of cynicism on show here today. those who seek to end tax sovereignty are using one member state’s cynicism to cynically advance their own agenda. we should not throw away the rulebook just because there’s a temporary political issue. unanimity is not a block to progress. it is a safeguard of democratic decision—making. sinn féin rejects centralisation of tax powers and defends unanimity on such crucial matters.
mr president, commissioner, guests, dear colleagues, the oecd agreement was a great success. it was a political success that was concluded by the underwriting of the agreement. now we are turning this political success into economic success. and here i firmly believe that whether we implement or not implement agreement is decisive for the future of this very, very important agreement. and this is also of potential benefit for us, not only globally. so that’s why the eu bears enormous responsibility in starting the implementation of this very important agreement. the eu is a very democratic society based on the rules, and it’s right that within these rules there is unanimity principle. but i believe that the unanimity principle that brings strong power to the states must be balanced by the responsibility. so that’s why i call on the member states to use this right in a responsible way. in this case, if they will not be responsible, i guess it’s time to find an alternative way.
mr president we have prepared a great thing, dear colleagues. we wanted to finally impose a fair tax on the richest multinational corporations. but there is a government in the european union. it just so happens that it's the hungarian government again, who wants to prevent this. why would i? because the hungarian prime minister is actually protecting the interests of the multik against the hungarian small people. because orbán puts the burden of the common good on the shoulders of small and medium-sized enterprises and the poorest, instead of the richest. after all, the hungarian prime minister has always fought against the richest when he was not one of them. until now, we thought that viktor orbán was only a central european regional representative at gazprom, but apparently he has now extended his services to represent all tax-avoiding multinationals operating in europe. orbán will veto because he wants to use his veto to blackmail, because he is confident that if he threatens with a veto, he can get eu funds without restoring the rule of law and ending public corruption. well, we can't have that. europe cannot be held hostage by a thief, even if his business card says prime minister.
mr president, let us sum up the situation. the reality of the situation is that the hungarian and polish governments refuse to implement at european level an agreement which they have accepted at international level and which would save us 50 to 60 billion euros a year. why would you do that? because of the unanimity. but why, especially? because we are weak. because we accept their game. because we know very well that the problem is not the question of taxation. the problem is elsewhere, they attack us on our values, they test us on our values and there is a very clear desire for humiliation. so the question for us is, when are we going to be strong? it starts with, point one, enhanced cooperation. they don't want this deal, they don't want the 50 to 60 billion? i'm all right. we want them. so when do we put the enhanced cooperation in place? point 2: when, in general, will the european commission trigger article 116? and finally, the question of qualified majority voting. i understand that it is complicated, as we all know, to change the treaties, to get out of unanimity, etc. it's complicated, but it's not impossible, and today, we live in a world where we can no longer afford to be weak. so we are waiting for you, the council and the commission, here now, firmly.
madam president, the amendment to reject this regulation extending the use of the european union's digital covid certificate until june 2023 has just been rejected, which we deeply regret, and i now ask that the amendments of group id to limit the resulting violations of fundamental rights be put to the vote. the amendments propose, for example, that the use of the eu digital covid certificate should only be required by member states where strictly necessary and proportionate, that this certificate should be discontinued before the planned date of 30 june 2023, that antibody tests or any other scientifically validated method to prove natural immunity should be used to benefit from this certificate, and that by 31 december 2022 at the latest the commission should submit a report to parliament. i would remind my colleagues that this is a democratic debate and that to reject these amendments would be profoundly undemocratic.
madam president, i want to return to two important votes of today. erasmus, of course, i'm all for it. young people meet and discover europe, its landscapes, its castles, its people. and sometimes the story ends well with couples forming. but now brussels is organising a global caravan: since 2004, more than 100 000 turks have taken erasmus in europe and we send our students to nigeria. it costs 26 billion euros, and what is the project? that is why i abstained on this vote. as for the second vote on the health pass, i voted against it, of course. the qr code for everyone? no, thank you. the commission in brussels ignored the 400 000 europeans who had spoken out against it, and here in the european parliament the majority ignored them today. but the fight goes on. why the hell are you so hell-bent on giving six-month-old babies a covid vaccine that doesn't work? as long as there are 1.3 million side effects listed by the ema, let's not put our children, our teenagers, our students at risk.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the european court of auditors published a report last thursday revealing that the european commission is using consultancy firms. after the mckinsey scandal in france, the commission would have spent almost €1 billion per year on external consultants between 2017 and 2020. the massive use of these private firms is highly reprehensible, when the commission has 33 000 civil servants. it also raises questions of interference, sovereignty and collusion. we need to have a debate on this highly sensitive subject. our parliament must not, of course, become a chamber for registering proposals, which are paid for at great expense by the taxpayer, with private firms, sometimes outside europe, which pay no tax in france.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the shock of the us supreme court decision reminds us that nothing is certain. this parliament, whose first president was simone veil, has the duty to express its solidarity with the americans unambiguously. in one day, millions of women lost the right to control their bodies. in our union too, millions of polish women have lost the opportunity to have an abortion because judges who were not loyal to the government had decided so. moreover, on this subject, the far right and the ultra-conservative right are never transparent in their political programmes. in europe, these parties are more discreet than ever so as not to frighten us during election campaigns. they are masked, but they hope to achieve their ends, including by using the deviant ways of justice. and this is where the rule of law, abortion rights and women's rights come together in the political struggle. it is in this spirit that i propose to you and we propose to you, with renew europe, a request for clarification and amendment of the european charter of fundamental rights. we are thus taking up the proposal of the president of the french republic and drawing inspiration from the french, belgian and swedish initiatives calling for the constitutionalisation of the ivg in their countries. the vote on thursday on the proposal is a test for our political groups. who will be truly sincere? who will stand up for women's rights? who will take political responsibility for questioning the right to abortion? who will vote for, who will vote against? the political groups are faced with their responsibilities. ladies and gentlemen, europeans must know that regardless of political alternation and the parties in power, women's rights will be respected. european women deserve the same protection as newspapers, trade unions, asylum seekers, landlords, churches. all have guarantees in the charter of fundamental rights. everyone has rights that are respected in this charter. let us give women in europe the guarantee that no judge will be able to deride these rights and let us remind the reactionaries of what they really are: a relic of the past that has no future in the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a recent press report about a 10-year-old girl who was pregnant as a result of rape, who is legally denied an abortion in ohio, and who was asked for medical assistance in the neighbouring state of indiana to perform the abortion. this drama depicts the first devastating effects of the retrograde u.s. supreme court decision, which cancels federal protections for abortion rights. in the united states and some member states of the european union, there is a worrying backsliding in the protection of women's sexual and reproductive health and rights. it is only hypocrisy to think that we can prevent abortion by criminalizing it, making it inaccessible, illegal and unsafe; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of pregnant women is not compromised. motherhood should be a choice based on universally recognized rights everywhere and not the result of coercion or, worse, violence.
madam president, commissioner, a week ago the us supreme court ended almost 50 years of case law that had enshrined the right to abortion for american women. this ruling does not automatically make abortion illegal, but it allows states to consider it as such. and as you mentioned, 14 states have already criminalized abortion or are in the process of doing so. this is obviously a serious setback for women's rights, and it's not just in the united states. we know that on our own european continent women's rights are also under threat. if abortion falls within the competence of each member state, the european parliament may decide. it must do so even when it becomes a public health issue. worldwide, a woman dies every nine minutes from an illegal abortion. as we are building the europe of healthcare here in this parliament, which simone veil has chaired, and as we are legislating to give all european citizens equal access to care, can we continue to accept that women put their lives at risk in this way? we know that restricting access to abortion does not reduce the number of abortions. we must therefore remain extremely vigilant so that public health takes precedence over all other considerations.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. abortions are not preventable. that's it. the only way to do that is to ban safe and legal abortions, putting women's lives at risk. roe v. wade is affecting us! in 2021, ultraconservative anti-choice groups in the united states pumped millions of dollars into europe to restrict our rights here. the austrian industry alone received almost nine and a half million us dollars. this is a controlled intervention in our democratic system. we must therefore defend our values. these are the right to self-determination over one's own body, the right to basic medical care, and access to safe, legal abortions. our grandmothers, our mothers, they were very vocal about the right to abortion and they fought for it. we must defend this - we, the women, the men, the young and the old. we have to make sure that society evolves. and that is why: pro-choice for every woman, that is, in europe.
madam president, a month ago we were here discussing a leak of a sentence. the worst expectation has been met, the worst we expected of it. and it is that the worst expectations are being raised about the fundamental right to abortion. not just in the united states, but also here, in europe, in all parts of the world. that's why today is the time to put convictions behind us and take active steps. what does this resolution represent? one step forward. when abortion ceases to be a constitutional right in the united states, we have to make it a fundamental right in the european union. the proposal is therefore very clear: let us amend the charter, let us insert a new article 7a in title 2: in the european union everyone has the right to a legal and safe abortion. women in hungary, women in poland, women in malta are all european women, free, equal, with the same fundamental rights, just like men. there is no charter of fundamental rights in the 21st century that excludes half the population.
thank you, madam speaker, the u.s. supreme court's decision to overturn the right to abortion is a dangerous precedent and evidence of "trumpism", unfortunately, did not disappear with his tenure. that's why we must do everything to prevent similar initiatives in our societies that are inspired by this humiliating decision. in these traumatic and never-easy situations, women must be able to make their own decisions about their own bodies and reproductive health, without pressure and conditioning, and receive appropriate care in their own city and country. unfortunately, the health care system in croatia is also overwhelmed by the most conservative influences, so in the public health system we have entire hospitals where doctors are refusing access to abortion. it is time that throughout the european union, and in croatia as well, we further ensure the right to abortion by incorporating it into national constitutions and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. a woman's right to choose must not be overturned. it is our duty to secure and defend that right!
madam president, abortion is a highly political issue, a witness and instrument of a choice made by society, and this throughout the history of women. it is not just a private matter and a major public health issue. it's not even a moral issue. when a government passes or re-implements laws restricting or banning abortion, it is never by chance. it is because an authoritarian trajectory, the dangerous influence of a religion or a reactionary ideology requires the control of women's bodies to better control the population of that state. it is about sending women back to the home to better subjugate society; the first sign of a more comprehensive crackdown on freedoms and rights in a country; racist demographic reasoning to ensure the supremacy of an indigenous people; or even the need to create a mass of workers for industrial production. this was the case in the 19th century. historically, controlling women's sexuality and reproductive capacity has been an organized political issue in the service of the worst desires of coercion of power.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, no, the fight for the right to abortion is not over, despite the displeasure of those in this house who insist on saying the opposite. the decision by the u.s. supreme court is a tragic reminder that the right to abortion is never truly acquired. it is imperative that we learn from this tragic situation and act quickly. i'm sorry to have to take up our grandmothers' fight; because this decision is the result of the intransigence of the ultraconservative religious movements in the places of power in the united states, the same movements that are present in this room. that is why it is very good that we do not allow them in any more and that we fight completely against the presence on european soil of these movements, which are sometimes financed by foreign sources and which, insidiously, are gaining strength in the european union. there is urgency, urgency to fight backward movements, urgency above all to protect the right to abortion from their attacks; because in the end, the ones who drink are the women, especially the weak ones. so let us take a further step towards a europe that protects our values by inscribing the right to abortion in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. let's make that choice today, because tomorrow may be too late.
madam president, the tragedy at the gates of melilla does not deserve a compliment on the police action, nor does it deserve that all the blame be laid at the door of the mafia. it does not deserve to have higher fences erected, nor to adopt the incendiary speeches and practices of the extreme right. it deserves that we wake up at once, that we react, that we practice a little humanity. as long as people in the southern countries, particularly young people, do not have the least decent living conditions, many of them will be willing to lose what little they have left to aspire to a better life among us. and this is a terrible decision, but it's legitimate. we need the council to unblock the pact on migration and asylum, but we also need a genuine plan for africa, to make a genuine contribution to the development of african countries. this is all the more urgent in a context of famine and instability. if we do not give priority to a european plan for africa, we shall be lamentable over more tragedies at the gates of the union, which are already the gates of shame.
madam president, commissioner, the images from melilla are beyond tragic, they are absolutely unacceptable. the institutions of the european union, so adept in other situations, are slow to listen. why would you do that? because the massacre that took place there is inseparable from the policies of the european union, which insists on an inhuman, selective, xenophobic, exploitative and criminalising view of migrants. it is inseparable from the eu-fortress and the agreements it concludes with third countries, such as morocco, for the retention, return and expulsion of migrants and refugees, in violation of human rights, in disregard of international law. it is inseparable from the militarisation of migration policies. it is important to note that in addition to these tragic dozens of deaths, there have been more than 800 deaths in the mediterranean this year alone. we must respond quickly and in solidarity to the thousands of human beings who are risking everything for the right to live in dignity and peace, but we must also combat the causes for which the european union is responsible, abandon the policies of destabilisation and aggression, and respect the sovereignty and independence of states, the principles of the united nations charter and international law.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for this debate on this tragic and complex event. we can never accept people dying at our eu borders. but we can also never accept that people use violence to force themselves into the european union. the unhcr, the iom and african union have called for investigations. so have you in this debate tonight. i fully support these calls. the priority now is to help the wounded and establish the facts. smugglers are responsible for trafficking many people to the borders in the first place and then leaving them to their fates so they see no other way out. as many of you here also have stressed in this debate, we must to continue to work with our african partners, countries of origin, countries of transit, countries of destination, and with morocco in particular, against smugglers to address root causes, reduce irregular migration and improve regular migration – legal migration. the eu needs migration, but we need it in an orderly way. but can i also raise and argue against some things that have also been said in the debate that i do not agree with? first, i think everybody should be a bit cautious using the word ‘instrumentalisation’. in the proposal that the commission has put on the table, that is now being put to the co-legislators to decide upon, the commission defines instrumentalisation as a situation where a third country instigates irregular migration flows into the union by actively facilitating the movement of third—country nationals to the external borders onto or from within its territory, with the intention of destabilising the union or a member state. i do not really see that this is the case in this tragic event. may i also raise or argue that the eu migration policy is of course not racist. this is totally wrong. but the immigration policy is incomplete. we are lacking a comprehensive and european policy on migration and asylum. and that’s why it’s urgent to adopt the full pact on migration and asylum. many of you have also tonight called for a sustainable and effective asylum and migration policy based on solidarity and shared responsibility. you have also asked and called for legal pathways, and i agree, as i already said. we have our proposals for a union resettlement framework. let’s adopt it together with the other files of the pact. thank you for the debate.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. new technology has always changed the world. it has created tremendous benefits and lots of opportunities, but with new opportunities, there are also new challenges. this also applies to our mediation services. digital technology has both shortened the distance between us and deepened the gap. you can write to people from all over the world, but judging by the debate on social media, it's all too easy to forget that these are people you're writing with. the algorithms of social media too often promote hatred and division rather than hope and cohesion, and disinformation spreads like wildfire, reinforcing echo chambers that diminish dialogue and understanding and challenge our democracy and our model of society. and dangerous and illegal products find their way too easily to european consumers via online marketplaces that exploit loopholes in our legislation. for too long, there have been far too few rules in our online world. the digital world has evolved into a little bit of a wild west, where the biggest players are making the rules. but with the dsa, there's a new sheriff in town. now we're going to tame the tech giants, give our users better rights, and take care of our democracy. we're opening the black box of algorithms so we can look into the engine of the platform's money machine. in the future, it will be a requirement for the major platforms to risk-assess their algorithms. does the algorithm distribute illegal content? does it promote eating disorders and self-harm? does it promote disinformation and conspiracy theories? if there is a risk that this will affect us negatively, then the platforms must correct the problem, and they must give access to their algorithms to authorities, to the european commission, and to researchers and ngos, so that they can help to look over the shoulder of the tech giants. we're demanding that the platforms take responsibility for their algorithms. algorithms and not just neutral mathematical formulas. they're designed to keep us engaged on the platform for as long as possible. it's a central part of the platform's monetary model. the longer we're online, the more data these platforms collect about us, and the more money they can make from targeting ads to us. now we're going to challenge the business model of the platform. they may make money, but not at the expense of our health or our model of society. first of all, we prohibit targeted advertising to children and minors based on their personal data. the platforms should not have a financial incentive to collect massive amounts of data about our children and young people and potentially sell it on. and by making this ban, we actually make it safer for kids and teens to be online, and it also gives us parents more peace of mind. second, we're banning platforms from using sensitive information about users of any age to target ads. and we ban dark patterns that manipulate us into making certain choices in various dialog boxes. and now the platforms' money machine is being subjugated to democracy. democracy should set the framework for the tech giants, not the other way around. this also applies to our online marketplaces. today, it is all too easy to click illegal and dangerous products into the virtual shopping cart. it undermines consumer protection and product safety and therefore i am glad that we have come closer to equating online and offline trade. in future, online marketplaces will have to know their sellers and carry out random checks of the goods offered on the platform, comparing the goods against existing databases and illegal products. it's no secret that i would have liked to have gone further myself, but i think we're taking a good first step here. and now i'm going to switch to english. i would like to thank all the colleagues who made this new legislation possible. i thank all my shadow rapporteurs and all the associated committees for their cooperation, and a big thank you to the european commission and also to the french presidency for a fruitful and constructive negotiation. it was not always easy, but i do believe that we can all be proud of the outcome. and finally, i would also like to thank our very hardworking and dedicated staff, and especially mathias, alexandra and atanaska for their hard work. they've been working night and day to help us make this legislation possible. with the dsa, we will create a safer, a fairer and a more transparent online environment. we take back control from the tech giants and we establish a level playing field for businesses. i think we can all be very proud of the agreement, and i do hope that a large majority here tomorrow will vote in favour of the dsa. with that, we have made history and we will make the online world much safer.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. tomorrow we will vote together on the law on digital markets and on the law on digital services. and with that - mrs schaldemose has already mentioned this - we have a lot of work behind us. europe is ushering in a new era of tech regulation, where we will ensure that the principle that what was not allowed offline is also prohibited online. we are thus taking a leading role as the european union on an international scale, because there is no such combination of horizontal regulation of markets and services. the european union is thus taking the lead as the main legislator and regulator in the effort to keep markets open and to bring transparency to the way algorithms work. for the first time, platforms will have to take responsibility for the legality of the content they post. quasi-monopoly enterprises are forced to respect competition in accordance with the principles of the social market economy. the european commission will no longer have to prove that it allows free competition on its platforms, but the companies themselves will have to prove that they allow free competition on their platforms, and that they do so in a uniform manner throughout the european union. by concentrating on the essentials, we have avoided unnecessary red tape and strengthened the uniformity of european law. at the same time, enforcement is facilitated by a stricter penal framework, especially in the event of a repeat offence. the reversal of the burden of proof is also a paradigm shift, which has been brought about by the experience of the many competition proceedings, particularly in the area of disclosure of conflicts of interest and the possible prohibition of market-distorting acquisitions. the european parliament has also achieved an important success in this respect, because we in this house had already called on the commission to intervene in 2014. and that is why it is all the more important that we as a parliament deliver today what we started eight years ago. but that goes for the commission we not only deliver, we have also made substantial improvements in many areas of the law. above all, we have made the two laws future-proof for future developments. in future, users will be explicitly given the choice of which service they wish to use. in future, users will be able to expressly object to the cross-service use of their data. and in the online advertising market, transparency is again required in the future - true to the standard: trust is good, control is better. the commission is also proposing to make a number of devices interoperable in the future, and this could also lead to considerable simplification of messaging services. and finally, applying the rules will create conditions in the future in app stores, search engines and social media that are based on fairness between the parties involved and not on the right of the stronger. it is therefore generally accepted that in future self-interested preferences will be assessed from the point of view of competition and not by financial investors. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's digital economy. we must now concentrate on implementing the laws, and that is why we are proposing in this year's budget to recruit a total of 150 staff to do just that. this is not a general surveillance of the economy, but only a targeted control of the commitments of the gatekeepers in the framework of the regulatory dialogue. only by standing on equal footing in dialogue can we be sure that european legislation will be given the respect it deserves. we owe it to our citizens and our businesses.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, madam vice-president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one year after the digital markets act was presented, we voted in this very house, in december 2021, on the european parliament's position. six months later, under the french presidency of the european union, i am glad that we have reached this trialogue agreement. it's doubly historic. first, because we are setting the rules for the first time in the online space. this economic regulation of the digital giants will impose a clear list of prohibitions and obligations on them even before any infringement, under penalty of heavy penalties. economic models will have to change, and so will behaviors. secondly, because we did it in just 18 months. this is a sign of the urgency of this new legislative arsenal. this urgency requires us to have the means to enforce these new rules and deliver the promised effects for our businesses and our citizens. europe is setting an ambitious model, which will be followed by other international jurisdictions. in the age of the borderless internet, regulation will be global or it will not be. europe has recognised the need to ensure fair competition online at international level. we must now provide concrete means to do so, and as soon as possible.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, decades of laxity have made europe a digital colony of the american big techs, the gafams. the legislation on digital markets, the dma, is therefore an attempt to reverse this situation. president macron congratulates himself on this legislation. however, it is in spite of the french presidency's position, not because of it, that the wfd still contains useful provisions. as a result of pressure from the french presidency of the council, the maximum fine for an infringement was halved. similarly, the dismantling of gafams that breach the rules has been made more difficult. surprisingly, the council did not see much value in the interoperability of messaging services. opening up whatsapp to alternative services would benefit millions of citizens. yet it was accepted only reluctantly. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur, mr andreas schwab, on his success in limiting the damage. i am glad that my group's proposal to protect whistleblowers is part of the wmd. i would like to thank the rapporteur, my colleagues and the staff concerned for this enormous amount of work. dma is necessary but not sufficient. it's a beginning, but not an end. this legislation will not in itself create digital jobs in europe, nor will it create digital champions, nor will it create digital sovereignty for europe. we should massively support european digital businesses and invest in digital jobs in europe, as in the past, with european cooperation initiatives and investments such as airbus. after decades of laxity, we have a final chance to take the initiative. our group will support this report.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have done that. in less than a year, we have managed to negotiate the most ambitious texts in the world to regulate the digital giants. in the face of the hegemony of chinese and american companies, in the face of the model of an authoritarian state or surveillance capitalism, we are building a fairer, more transparent, more protective internet for europeans. 'great speeches,' some might say. well, no, i won't. no, amazon will no longer be able to allow counterfeit products to flood our markets. no, facebook will no longer be able to contribute with impunity to promoting calls for violence and radicalization through its algorithms. the digital giants are weighing on the functioning of our democracies, so they must bear the rightful responsibility: that is, to protect europeans. ladies and gentlemen, europe is moving forward. we must now ensure that our institutions have the means to enforce these new regulations, otherwise we would have failed.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is shocking, yes, shocking that in 2022 there will still be millions of women, men and children in the european union living in extreme poverty. poor women face specific problems which must be treated as such. i would like to welcome the work done on this report, which presents concrete and relevant ways of combating and addressing women's poverty: promoting their independence, their economic autonomy, enhancing female-dominated occupations, sharing household tasks and combating harassment at work which can put women in precarious situations. finally, as you said, madam commissioner, i would like to stress that all the work we are doing at the moment in the committee on employment and the committee on women's rights must enable us to combat poverty among women. whether it is wage transparency or even the social and solidarity economy, all the issues we deal with must ultimately enable us to achieve concrete actions to combat women's poverty.
madam president, commissioner, the statistics show that wage inequality in the european union is on average 13%, and poverty affects women more than men. it has actually increased in recent years. while violence against women, especially domestic violence, exists in all settings, women with few resources and economic dependence on their spouse have even greater difficulties coping with it; because if they leave their homes with little or no resources, how can they find a place to stay or food to eat? the fear of falling into poverty and social exclusion should not - must no longer - be a hindrance. to help these women victims of violence, we must take advantage of the forthcoming european legislation to create a network of one-stop shops. there are wide disparities between member states in the services provided to victims. we must ensure that these women victims receive comprehensive care, from shelter to economic, judicial, social and medical support. we also need to create a new offence and define a common framework to make gender-based violence a new area of crime.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, it is impossible to pay proper tribute to carers and carers, who are mostly women, in a minute. it is impossible to describe in a minute what we see in our hospitals, like the one where i work: lack of recognition, administrative burdens, lack of staff. so one minute, it's just time to sound the alarm. no progress in care can be made if the interests of the patients are lost sight of. no care organisation is effective unless it is linked to prevention, education, rehabilitation support and the maintenance of autonomy. no country can consider that it can do better on its own. this is why we welcome a common european strategy for care.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the parliament, dear ms walsh as rapporteur, dear shadow rapporteurs, i welcome this occasion to discuss your comprehensive report on mental health in the digital world of work. i agree with you, it’s not just about discussion – it’s about preparing actions. mental health is indeed a growing concern in all the member states of the eu. this has also been recognised by the commission in its recent communication on the conference on the future of europe. already before the pandemic, mental health problems affected about 84 million people in the eu. this means, in concrete terms, an enormous personal suffering of people. linked to that, there is an enormous cost for our societies in terms of well—being. but also, from a purely economic point of view, from the point of view of the labour market, these mental health problems are estimated to be about eur 600 billion annually, which is roughly 4% of the eu gdp. the pandemic has particularly affected the mental health of young people, people with less secure employment, people with less education or lower income. young people deserve particular attention as the pandemic has had a heavy toll. according to the oecd, most countries’ mental health issues among the age group 15 to 24 have doubled or even more. young people need to be able to access support at an early stage in education as well as at work. this is also a matter of improving the quality of work, including telework. on 22 june, the commission presented its new initiative ‘healthier together: eu non-communicable diseases’. one of the initiative strands focuses on mental health and neurological disorders. it will promote mental well—being and address mental health disorders, improving timely and equitable access to high—quality mental health services and enhancing social inclusion of people living with a mental health problem. with a budget of more than eur 5.3 billion, the eu for health programme will support these efforts. this includes two specific calls for proposals on the mental health of children, young people and their families. this will contribute to the european year of youth with a new budget contribution of eur 4 billion each. a call for projects is also under way to tackle mental health challenges related to the covid—19 pandemic and to meet young people’s mental health needs. the eu contribution here is eur 750 000. moreover, we have also mobilised eur 9 million to help people fleeing ukraine that are in urgent need of mental health and trauma support. mental health is also a growing concern in the context of the labour market and the new world of work. telework has the potential to deliver many benefits to people and society. we saw this during the pandemic when telework proved essential to preserving economic activity and employment. going forward, telework can contribute to reconciling private and professional life, to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and to reversing population decline in smaller cities and rural areas. however, telework also carries some important risks, as some workers report feeling isolated or being unable to disconnect or find the right work—life balance and, i must say, mainly women are affected by this overburden which sometimes has been created by telework. i want to stress that the eu legal framework on safety and health at work aims at protecting workers from all occupational health and safety risks, and this includes psycho—social risks. it is essential to fully apply these provisions on the ground. in this regard, and as pointed out in your report, we also need better awareness and training, and the next healthy workplaces campaign of the european agency for safety and health at work for 2325 will therefore also address these psycho—social risks. in addition, the eu osh strategic framework has already announced a non—legislative initiative related to mental health at work. the aim is to work towards a joint commitment for addressing psycho—social risks and preventing mental health problems by all relevant actors including, in particular, the social partners, member states and labour inspectors. the occupational safety and health summit in may 2023 will provide a unique opportunity to generate momentum and concrete commitments. we all acknowledge the importance of digitalisation of the world of work while respecting working time arrangements, upholding sound working conditions, health and safety, as well as the boundaries between professional and private life. the commission is currently working on a possible review of the workplace and display screen directives, and this review would address issues related to changes in the world of work and digitalisation, including also psycho—social risks. in parallel, analytical work on artificial intelligence, telework and the right to disconnect is ongoing. we are collecting evidence and looking into the future development of telework and the right to disconnect through a fact—finding study. we also co—hosted a conference with the european parliament on these issues. the social partners play a central role, so i am very pleased that the eu cross—industry social partners agreed last week to work towards commonly agreed solutions and review and update their 2002 autonomous agreement on telework, with a view to it being transformed into eu law. this will also address the right to disconnect. a final word on care workers, because you just had an important debate on care. the pandemic has had significant impacts on their physical and mental health. as discussed earlier in september, the commission will come forward with a european care strategy. its aim is not only to boost access to quality, affordable and accessible care services, but also to improve working conditions and work—life balance for carers. mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank again the rapporteur for her remarkable work and the many valuable elements in this report. i am sure that together we can tackle this issue of mental health, which destroys so many lives in our society.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the pandemic has seen a rise in teleworking, which has positive implications such as greater flexibility and autonomy. on the other hand, there are long working hours or excessive interconnection, increased work intensity and stress. clearly, mental health needs to be treated as a priority. so what's the solution? develop digital skills that can reduce work-related stress. digital accessibility is also key to equal employment opportunities for people with disabilities and those with mental health problems. in europe, suicide is the second leading cause of death among young people. mental health issues are high among young people, and the best way to address them is to support them with quality education, employment, family formation and housing, so that they have a positive outlook. hungary is a good example: the exemption from the szja for young people under 25 and the home-building support scheme to encourage family formation and child adoption have been developed in recent years and are already showing positive results.
president. - the debate is closed. nine out of ten employees experience stress in the workplace. the mental health crisis is a killer that has been running unchecked in europe for many years. and the pandemic has only made things worse. the line between work and home has blurred, resulting in more stress, more burnout and more depression. i think we should say we're in a health crisis, and nothing's happening. european action is necessary. words are no longer enough. the commission must take the lead: the commission has already proposed a directive to protect workers from stress and to put an end to the health crisis. mental health is a human right. let's give it the priority it deserves.
mr president, commissioner schmit, colleagues, mental health issues at work have increased with the covid-19 crisis - i was going to say all crises, including the digital transition. these crises are not inevitable and we must take them into account, in particular through social dialogue at all levels. i would like to thank maria walsh for this excellent report which gives concrete guidance, such as improving access to support services and psychosocial risk mediation services. and i would also like to emphasise and give my full support, in this context, to a directive on the right to disconnect, especially as the european social partners have just agreed on the need for a binding framework on disconnection in their 2022-2024 work programme. i think this is a major issue, especially for our young people, who are very much affected by these various crises.
mr president, commissioner, while the european union is the second largest economy in the world, almost 97 million people are facing poverty and social exclusion, and 22% of the population cannot make ends meet or lead a decent life. we fear the fall, but let's wake up: we are already in the unacceptable. it is urgent to stop the national 'measures'. people don't want charity, they want dignity and respect for their rights. we must make the european project our best social shield. it's urgent. i have to go. a minimum income system must be established in all member states to ensure that everyone can live with dignity. he must be above the poverty line. we must also pursue the ecological transition in a fair way to guarantee safe and decent jobs, but also energy renovation projects that will limit the forced spending of households. we made minimum wage. we must also achieve the right to housing, food and health.
member of the commission. – i always say that in order to fight issues like climate change or biodiversity loss or pollution, they respect no borders. of course we have to cooperate transboundary, but also at the regional level because, at the end of the day, implementation comes to the regional level. especially when we speak about our sea basins, about our seas, we know how our regions are heavily dependent on activities. covid, unfortunately, very clearly exposed that our coastal regions are mainly dependent on two activities: fisheries and tourism. we know that with ecosystem decline at the rate that we have, the places where eutrophication is taking place and dead zones are forming there will be neither fisheries or tourism. so of course we have to deploy all the possible efforts. we are already working very closely as regards the fisheries management with the regional fisheries management organisations, which helps us to get the specifics and, of course, successfully address them. i am sure that also with the deployment of funds as regards the cohesion funds or fisheries fund, we can also engage even closer with the regions, with the coastal communities, because at the end of the day we are speaking here about their social and economic well-being, which is unfortunately with the declining of our ocean ecosystems might be severely impacted as well.
mr president, commissioner, because of climate change, human negligence and some major accidents, fires have already broken out in the mediterranean and especially in my country, greece, which has been facing a serious problem in recent days. my first question is whether you intend to ask the commission, in view of cop15, to institute specific measures to restore biodiversity in burning areas, by means of the exchange of know-how through a specific platform, and in addition to the design by the member states of specific programmes for the restoration of such biodiversity.
member of the commission. – thank you very much for your question. so you’re absolutely right. we already see that this summer, the beginning of the summer is very hot. we had heat waves in the regions and of course, early forest fires in some parts of europe, particularly in greece. i would say that we were prepared as much as possible and rescue deployed its capacities around europe, especially around those regions where the forest fires are most likely. i think, you know, greece and i visited myself places which were severely impacted by the forest fires have huge experience in managing the forests and then restoring it’s, of course, unique ecosystems. i think what’s extremely important, i’m sure, and we always find the capacities to rebuild. but of course we have to realise that for ecosystems the investment and our efforts to rebuild is relevant. but most importantly that it takes years to replenish. so, therefore, we have to deploy all possible efforts to prevent forest fires from happening as much as it’s possible, deploying all the possibilities of monitoring and so on, ensuring that the least possible amount of land is affected. and therefore, i think that's where we should put all the possible effort. and it’s not only in regards to the cop15, i think we as europeans and citizens of europe, we value every piece of our land, and especially forests which bring so much into our lives, which are our lungs and our support system. so, of course, we have to be prepared and ensure that we do not lose them in the first place.
mr president, commissioner sinkevičius, you have visited the areas affected by the fires in my country, greece, and you know that one of the species affected by these fires is pollinators, and specifically bees. in view of this, i would like to know whether the commission intends, particularly in areas affected by natural disasters due to climate change, to take measures to support the efforts of farmers there, and because of the urgent need for people to stay where they are.
member of the commission. – absolutely, pollinators are a crucial part of our ecosystem, and we are seeing a steep decline in pollinators, especially wild pollinators, in our nature. therefore, in nature restoration legislation, as a specific target, we actually have a target on pollinators, ensuring that they do not decline and instead reach a positive status. secondly, when we speak about pollination and so on, i think it must be addressed not only from an environmental point of view, but also from our cap and agriculture. i think we know that it is not only forest fires, which destroys forests, destroys pollinators, but there are other pressing chemical uses and so on that also do harm to the population of pollinators, which also have to be addressed. so i truly hope that, with the implementation of nature restoration legislation, member states will have two years to prepare their plans, and within those plans, we will see a prominent role for protecting and ensuring the protection of pollinators.
member of the commission. – thank you very much for your question. so our proposal was based on an impact assessment, and it addressed the six commodities that have the biggest impact currently on deforestation. we account that in our impact assessment these six commodities are responsible for 80% to 85% of deforestation globally. so of course we wanted to ensure addressing the biggest part, let’s say, of deforestation, but we also have included a very clear review clause which will allow market monitoring. if we see that certain product groups or deprived products or commodities are responsible for deforestation and that number is increasing, we would, of course, be able to include it into our legislation. the work is now, of course, within co-legislators. we have a council opinion and parliament will be soon voting on their opinion and then we will have three trilogues where i think also these questions can be addressed. i think at the end of the day, what’s most important is not the long list of commodities – even though i think that including two additional commodities can be an important step forward – but it’s implementation on the ground. we have to ensure that we learn the past lessons, lessons which showed that very often coming out with a very ambitious proposal and really good aims, we ended up with no implementation and unfortunately seeing the catastrophic numbers, with every year a larger and larger area being destroyed due to deforestation. so i think what’s most important is the implementation on the ground, working mechanisms across the value chain, ensuring that our proposal is actually the largest nature protection act, which is what we want.
member of the commission. – thank you very much for your question. so absolutely. that’s what i probably meant by saying that implementation is crucial. so, of course, traceability and monitoring, verification of data that is received based on geolocation data at the source by operators is crucial to have. then we can ensure that our legislation reaches its aims and we have approved data that can prove the origin of the commodity rather than, you know, we know that very often through the value chains, the product can travel through a few countries. and then we do not receive accurate data and might be misled and that would leave a major loophole. so we have to ensure that, of course, the monitoring framework is strong ensuring that the implementation is fully deployed.
mr president, commissioner, two weeks ago the european commission proposed ambitious legislation to restore ecosystems and reduce pesticides. this is a strong signal sent before cop 15. overfishing is now the leading factor in the decline of marine biodiversity. the action plan on the protection of fisheries resources and marine biodiversity must therefore play a crucial role in protecting and restoring marine ecosystems. however, its publication was again postponed. will this affect his ambition? how will the european commission ensure that marine protected areas are really protected by finally banning industrial extractive activities such as offshore drilling, mining and fishing techniques which have the greatest impact on the seabed? how does the european commission intend to end overfishing outside marine protected areas? and how will the law on nature restoration be integrated into the common fisheries policy, particularly as regards restoration measures which have so far failed to be implemented under the common fisheries policy?
member of the commission. – thank you very much for your question. so, as regards the marine resources protection, we are working on the plan, which will be finalised this year, as regards the marine resources protection action plan. then, as regards fisheries activities, of course, our cfp has to play a crucial role, but not only cfp, also our fisheries fund, which is actually aimed at investing into more sustainable fisheries practices, helping our fishermen to transition. secondly, i think that what’s extremely important when we talk about deep-sea mining is that we cannot rush. we cannot rush things here, and we have to ensure that we have a proper impact assessment of what such activities would have as regards the sea’s ecosystems and environment in general. only by having these results could we advance. but i am already really happy about the calls of the european leaders at the lisbon ocean conference for actually halting such activities, which i think, especially as regards when we speak about the mpas, is a crucial element. so i think there is a lot of work to be done as regards stepping up, the protection of the mpas. we should not forget the principle of, of course, how the mpa is done, and there is always research and evidence behind the mpa into what is protected and what is aimed to be protected. but clearly, i think it has to address, first of all, the seabed, which is crucial for a thriving ecosystem.
mr president, commissioner, certain measures are being requested by the fishermen themselves. for example, fishermen in northern france are pressing for a moratorium on the use of the danish seine, particularly in the channel. would you be willing to support this request?
mr president, commissioner, the preservation of biodiversity is essential both for combating global warming and for the protection of animal species. you say you want to preserve our biodiversity. i guess so. however, your natural hypocrisy is back to the drawing board when it comes to signing free trade agreements with the whole world. the latest example is the agreement with new zealand on 30 june. did you know that a round trip by plane from auckland to paris pollutes more than a european household does in a year? do you really think that the supercargo ships that sail our oceans are not destroying our marine biodiversity? you are lying to europeans because all the efforts of our fellow citizens to combat global warming are being thwarted by the perverse effects of your disastrous economic policy. this model is destroying our biodiversity and causing species to disappear. so yes, to meet the challenge of cop 15, you will have to abandon this outrageous globalisation and intensify scientific research.
mr president, commissioner, you therefore find that the religion of free trade is far above the environment in the scale of values of european civil servants. can you promise us that no other free trade agreement will be signed? if not, i urge you to listen to the majority of citizens who are sick and tired of the schizophrenic policies of this parliament.
mr president, commissioner, as was widely discussed last week in lisbon at the united nations ocean summit, the ocean is in a state of absolute emergency because of global warming, pollution and our activities. as the starfish mission you launched reminds us, it is imperative that we not only protect but also regenerate our seas, rivers and oceans if we are to continue to balance the climate, reduce coastal flooding and feed people. the ocean is in an absolute emergency and yet i was unable to put a resolution before the european parliament this week. i'll propose again in september. however, i would like to take this opportunity to exchange views because, as you have said, the united nations will be taking major decisions on several negotiations by the end of the year, and even before cop15. the european union plays a fundamental role in these negotiations and i would like to commend, commissioner, the commitment of the commission and your teams, which i support. i would like to express my support, but also to ask you a first question in the negotiations on the conservation of biodiversity on the high seas. in lisbon, were you able to make progress on the... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, commissioner, two more questions on the climate agenda. the first is: will the european union join the blue carbon coalition and put blue carbon ecosystems on the climate agenda, in the member states' determined contributions? and the second question: in lisbon, france spoke in favour of exploration but against exploitation of the deep sea. will you support this expected position to encourage other member states to follow suit?
member of the commission. – you know, talking about the cop15 agreement, of course i hope and i count on support from parliament as well and we will be getting that agreement and negotiating together. now as regards the harmful substances, i think one core element which we maybe didn’t mention in our debate today is, of course, the ‘do no significant harm’ principle in our spending – as regards our funds, as regards our multiannual financial framework, as regards our other funds. if that is kept in line, i think that will already have a significant contribution, especially also looking at the recovery and resilience plans from the member states, which have a very clear notion of ‘do no significant harm’, which was kept in the plans but of course, it’s very important that it would be kept also in the implementation phase.
i have a very brief question. if we look at the epas and the scientific community, they are very clear that 40% of the land and water area should be in a favourable state to support our ecosystems. if we look at that, what are your plans to proceed with this rewilding target in biodiversity of about 20%? because there seems to be one half missing. this leads to a second question. how are you going to push the higher ambition level internationally? i am not going to take the second question because i can very briefly add then, when we have the targets, what about using copernicus and artificial intelligence better on supervision and make it more binding?
member of the commission. – so, first of all, i fully agree with you and now i think our nature restoration legislation is exactly addressing that we find in bad or poor quality around 81% of our ecosystems. so, of course, deploying for 20% nature restoration, just not to mix it with rewilding because it’s not the same. nature restoration efforts would of course, allow us to bring that back to around 40%. but of course, we want to go even beyond that; the 2030 and 20% target, this is what it is realistic to achieve. even so, it’s quite ambitious but further on we want, of course, to deploy nature restoration efforts on all ecosystems that are in bad or unfavourable status. now, when we speak, what we’re able to do. so, first of all, of course, we need to lead by example. we need to prove that our legislation works. we need to use the high ambition coalition. during the lisbon cop, we welcomed the 101st country to the high ambition coalition for nature, which i think is a very positive step, which shows that there is a strong club of ambitious countries which clearly understand the need. we, of course, need to push, together with them, for an ambition which would be implementable, realistic, but yet would allow us to reach a common agreement. last but not least on artificial intelligence: i think this is very much an untapped potential, an area which i think can be very well addressed now, during the czech presidency, where the czech presidency of the council put the digital and green transitions together, and i think in a very good way we can really rethink on where the digital solutions are going to be crucial to implement our green deal ambition. and very quickly, we will be able to see that without the digital solution, we cannot really advance much. so far in speaking about the cop15 and its resolution, there is no mention of the use of artificial intelligence. but again, i think when it comes to implementation across the board, across the countries, it will be very vastly used.
european agriculture, especially intensive livestock farming, is a major contributor to the loss of biodiversity. for decades, we have been driven by the growth and intensification of livestock farming through subsidies, through governments, through banks. the netherlands is now one of the countries that finally understands that the amount of nitrogen that ends up in nature reserves must be drastically reduced. and that inevitably means that the number of animals in the livestock industry must be drastically reduced. finally, i should say. less animals also means less manure and less ammonia. but it also leads to violent protests by farmers, who block roads, intimidate ministers and even destroy natural areas. what would be your message to ministers who are now faced with loss of biodiversity, but also angry farmers? how do you explain that a policy of indifference for years is no longer tenable? and how do you explain that procrastination is not an option and that our planet only has a chance if the goals are finally achieved?
member of the commission. – of course, when we see the current situation, it’s very difficult, and i really appreciate the dutch government’s efforts to deploy a plan with the funding to solve this issue. but this issue aggravated, not yesterday and not even a year before, the implementation of the nitrates directive has been hanging there since around the 1960s. so the answer here is of course very simple, even so, that it is hardly applicable for today. but in order to be compliant with the eu rules, you had to take measures since the very beginning, and of course over time that wouldn’t be so drastically painful. but unfortunately, when the measures were taken in the opposite direction, we find ourselves in a very difficult situation which will require now a significant investment from taxpayers’ money to ensure that of course there is a full compliance with eu legislation. just this morning i was discussing with spanish colleagues the situation in mar menor, in which a very dynamic, very touristy area became basically uninhabitable. this is what happens at the end of the day when you have a nutrient runoff. so i think we have agreed a very clear plan with the dutch government of how to implement the legislation. many member states went through that and did the implementation, and i think we will find a way forward with the dutch government as well. it’s very important that the funds that are allocated would be of course precisely used for those who will be affected most in that transition.
well i would prefer to give up my time for a second question. maybe another mep can ask a question.
member of the commission. – first of all, we all sitting at the same table, we all share the same urgency. yes, there are different ideas of how to implement, what steps should be taken. but i think we are all sitting at the same table because we are talking about the biodiversity and ecosystem loss, which is a loss of our lifeline basically, of our health support system. so i think, you know, what's extremely important is, as i mentioned multiple times during my answers, is the framework of implementation of how to put the right mechanism into place to ensure that we can do checks and balances later on, that we can return and we can monitor what has been done and what has been achieved and what impact it had. that's not easy. one of the ways could be through the funding mechanism, as i've mentioned, through the agreed possible fund per project, where that could be possibly achieved. secondly, of course, monitoring can be done always returning back at the meetings, at the cop meetings, where we could evaluate the progress and then, of course, the reporting also has to be very clear. so it's not an easy way through that. but i think what's very important, first of all, is to reach the commitment of all, all sitting at that table and agreeing on the urgency. then secondly, we have to meet that urgency with funding mechanisms which would allow us to then ensure the implementation of the proposed targets.
that concludes the question time. i'm asking for your understanding too. we have set aside 90 minutes for question time. they're all over now. we don't know how many additional questions each one will have. we're trying to balance that. i would also like to say that we agreed that the dogma should apply to the political groups and that if all the political groups had exhausted their possibilities, the last two or three speakers or questioners would not have been involved. that means that we have a certain amount of flexibility, and now people have left, who i should have considered first. i made my decision earlier and i don't want to change it. that concludes the question time.
ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next item on the agenda, i should like to make it very clear that we are very honoured to welcome the speaker of the jordanian house of representatives, his excellency mr abdel-karim deghmi, and a joint delegation from the jordanian senate and house of representatives to the diplomatic gallery. welcome to the european parliament! (applause from the centre) the delegation is here to take part in the 10th eu-jordan interparliamentary meeting with the delegation for relations with the mashreq countries, which will take place tomorrow afternoon at 3.30 p.m. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply and for the fact that he has been able to give us a very clear and precise answer to the questions which have been raised.
we now come to the next item on the agenda, the objection under rule 111 (3) of the rules of procedure: amendment of the delegated act on climate taxonomy and the delegated act on taxonomy disclosure (2022/2594 ((dea)). i would also like to welcome to this debate the commissioner responsible, mrs mcguinness. i would remind you once again that the whole procedure for this debate is the same as we have followed for the previous items on the agenda. i don't need to repeat this.
author. – mr president, it is good to kick off this discussion. maybe just to start off with, where is the taxonomy for? the taxonomy is very clearly to harmonise claims by investor, what is a green and a sustainable investment. we’re not talking about banning any investment. we are talking about what is a green investment, nothing more, nothing less than that. unfortunately, in the proposal, and we are having that discussion for a longer while already, you are green or you are not green. i know some are saying that there are different categories, but in the end – and that is now also very clear from any ongoing and follow up on any legislation, think for example of the green bonds – the moment you comply with the taxonomy and there is taxonomy alignment, then there is a green label and you are having a green bond. so there is no ‘amber’ category at all or whatsoever. secondly, on the process – and here the parliament has been very clear – the parliament has been sidelined in this process. when we had the first delegated acts, there was a very clear public consultation for weeks, and then it took months before that delegated act was being published. on this second complementary delegated act, there was no public consultation. the member states were being asked to reply too, the parliament was only unofficially invited, but there was no formal consultation and the parliament can only say something now. on the contents, on nuclear first of all, it’s very controversial. will any investor really step in because of a green label? absolutely not, because an investor will need security from the government. this green label will not work and will not help. this is a pure political game by france. the criteria are written by france, for france. even the netherlands has said that the criteria they cannot comply with. this clearly shows that this is a political game by france only. then, on gas, first of all, we are making a separate category here for gas and having a higher emission threshold over other energy. everyone who is claiming we need to be technology—neutral, why are we then having a separate category for gas and for the others you still have a threshold of over 100, whereas for gas it can be 270. this is not technology—neutral. and on top of that, we now have the war in ukraine. how can we label gas green, and lng terminals will not comply, but gas from russia can? that is the opposite direction and we have to stop this idea. this is the moment to stop this delegated act.
author. – mr president, i’m very saddened to see the commission take the role of being just a stepping stone for council and member states in this case. and this is not promising for the taxonomy and its future. what was negotiated in the first round and first level of regulation was that this was supposed to be the gold standard of what is green and to create a reliable, verifiable framework. that’s why it is clearly written in the first level of regulation that it needs to be science—based. and what the platform proposed was not this what the commission is proposing. it says it needs to have ‘clear indicators’. well, that can be doubted in this case. it says clearly it needs to be substantially better than the industry average, and that is the industry that we are talking about, substantially better than the nuclear in general. substantially better than the gas in general. and it means that now when we look at the delegated acts, how can anyone say that if you have old—fashioned russian nuclear reactors – where you have a plan for the waste treatment by 2040 – that is the best gold standard of the nuclear energy in the european global market. and the parliament and the negotiating team was open to discuss this point, for example. we might disagree or agree about what is the role of nuclear in the future, but if you include nuclear, it should have been that kind of a technology that has the plans already for the waste treatment. the new model of small nuclear; maybe in future fusion, if we are talking about as long as a 2040 timeline, and those ones in technology that are recycling and reusing the fuel. so there are plenty of options that from the bottom of my heart i really would have hoped the commission would have used. and with gas, in some cases it goes close to ‘do no significant harm’ limits when we are talking about a temporary use of gas. so disappointed. not in the line of the first level of the regulation. there’s a severe brake on this and this has been the reaction by the financial market investors already. none of them are labelling gas or nuclear as green investment. so the eu, according to this proposal, would do that. and there is a strong signal that this might discredit the whole process.
member of the commission. – mr president, to quote one of the many commentators on our debate today, ‘this is a moment of truth’. the first and most important truth that i want to convey to you, as former colleagues, is that the climate delegated act, now in legislation since 1 january of this year, prioritises investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency. and, given the urgency of moving away from russian fossil fuels, we need to ramp up those investments with a renewed sense of urgency. this is our future. you know, there was considerable debate about the first delegated act. just as there is strong debate about the complementary delegated act we’re discussing today. the climate delegated act was also opposed by some who are speaking and will speak in this debate. as a former member of this parliament, i fully respect your strongly held views, but i also appreciate the pragmatism and realism in this house that allowed the climate delegated act move from proposal to legislation. the second truth: gas is a fossil fuel. it is not green. and i have never described it thus. i can say that in several languages if you wish. but i have never described gas as anything other than a fossil fuel. but some member states moving from dirty fossil fuel may need gas in transition, and that is where we have placed gas in this taxonomy. nuclear power: the speaker before me just said it is divisive. there are many different views around nuclear. it has supporters and detractors. but nuclear, low carbon is part of our energy mix in transition too. that is why it is in the transition category of the taxonomy. the third truth: the taxonomy is a voluntary instrument to guide private investors towards investments that allow us to reach our climate goals. it is a tool for the financial sector and for investors. it is not energy policy. member states are, and remain, fully in charge of their energy mix. i want to stress that there is no obligation on any member state to invest in either nuclear or gas. there is no obligation on any private investor to invest in nuclear or gas. but, and this is a fundamental truth, with this complementary delegated act, we provide clarity around the criteria under which private investments in gas or nuclear, or both, comply with the taxonomy in the transition category. while the cda was drafted before russia’s illegal invasion of ukraine, it does actually help us to look for alternative sources of gas, including lng from our international partners. it sends a signal that we support investment in gas infrastructure, power plants during our transition. it does not deepen our dependence on russian gas. our repowereu plan aims to tackle our energy insecurity as we move away rapidly from russian fossil fuel. we need these alternative sources to eliminate over-reliance on russian gas, and we have to guard against stranded assets by ensuring that any new gas infrastructure would have to be able to convert to low carbon or renewable gases. so our priority is to ensure investment in renewables intensifies. but without diverting eu green finances to fossil fuels, like gas or indeed nuclear, at the expense of renewables, which are a priority in our legislation, as i have already said. for me, it’s better that we have clear rules, clear conditionality on private investments in gas and nuclear, to ensure that we move towards our shared net-zero ambitions. without this complimentary delegated act, there would be no rules and conditions guiding such private investments. in addition, the financial sector will be required to provide full disclosure of their financial products with additional transparency required for products that might contain or would contain gas and nuclear. there will be no greenwashing. instead, it would be crystal clear for investors as to what investments are contained within financial products. colleagues, we are in a time of great uncertainty. today we see what we think was the unthinkable. some member states are reopening coal-fired power plants because of energy insecurity concerns. i hope that my remarks clarify why the commission believes that this complementary delegated act is important for our energy transition. it is both realistic and pragmatic given the very uncertain times we live in.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate today is about the correct classification of gas and nuclear energy. and i think we would do well - as our rapporteur has already said - to recall the very purpose of taxonomy. we wanted to create a transparency standard based on scientific evidence to help market participants make sustainable investment decisions. if we measure the delegated act on the table against this standard, the only conclusion that can be drawn is that this delegated act does not meet this requirement. there are two closely related reasons for this. firstly, i think it is undeniable that this delegated act was drawn up not on the basis of scientific criteria but on the basis of political criteria. the commission has carefully considered how to combine the two elements, gas and nuclear energy, which have nothing to do with each other, in such a way that they neutralize each other. this is not science. this is politics. secondly, the commission has put forward a standard which may be acceptable to a critical mass of member states but not to a critical mass of market players. to put it very clearly, investors who want to make green investments do not want to finance gas or nuclear power plants. that's why this taxonomy can't work. we have therefore a standard which has not been devised according to scientific criteria and which is of no use to market participants, and i shall therefore reject it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have followed with great interest the commission's proposal for a regulation on taxonomy from the outset. this was an important measure aimed at establishing clear and shared criteria for including economic activities among sustainable investments, thus avoiding greenwashing and sending an unambiguous signal to those who want to contribute their private savings to combating climate change. today we are discussing a delegated act by which the commission intends to include economic activities linked to the production of energy from gas and nuclear energy among those which would be taxonomically compatible and therefore sustainable. the socialist and democratic group is opposed to this proposal. this delegated act, in addition to not respecting the scope of the regulation, as already explained in my previous speeches, sends the wrong message to investors and european citizens because it labels as green what is not green, discrediting the whole regulation, because a source of energy that is a fossil fuel, such as gas, or a source, such as nuclear, whose production waste, the waste, takes thousands of years to be disposed of, cannot be considered sustainable, in defiance of the principle of not causing significant damage. we are well aware of the role of nuclear and gas in ensuring security of supply in the years ahead, but the choices made by the member states in the energy mix are not in question here, and excluding gas and nuclear from the taxonomy of investments that want to qualify as green does not prevent these sectors from obtaining public and private funding anyway. rather, it is about being serious and clear. i would like to ask whether anyone in this house would really recommend gas and nuclear to a european citizen who wants to invest his savings in environmentally sustainable economic activities, at the expense of, for example, renewable energy or energy efficiency. we cannot change this delegated act, but only reject it or accept it as it is. and we want to push back. this is the time to show that we are not playing with the citizens and that we are serious about tackling climate change and the future of the next generation.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, energy is obviously a very controversial subject in this house. but i think there is one thing we have in common, if not unanimously, then at least very broadly: the obligation to respect the paris agreements and the objectives of the green pact that we have set ourselves. to do that, we need to organize a transition. i hope, as we all do, that we will eventually be able to supply 100% of europeans' energy needs with renewable energy. that would be ideal, but it's not possible right now. we must therefore, by obligation, if not by choice, allow new investment in gas and nuclear under certain strict conditions, in particular transparency for investors, and for a limited time, which is the definition of a transition, so that the member states which, as has been said, are masters of their energy mix can organise their transition from starting points which we know to be very different. commissioner, you said it yourself: these emissions, nobody says they are green, but they are temporarily indispensable to the transition. and here is an opportunity to turn the corner on the misconceptions that are beginning to flourish: taxonomy, for example, does not force anyone to invest in a sector or in a country, as you have mentioned. in particular, it is wrong to say that it will encourage investment in russia. believe me, there will be many reasons not to invest in russia, starting with the embargo. the ukrainian minister for energy has just supported this delegated act, saying how important it will be for the future reconstruction of his country, as soon as possible. i think we need to use all the tools to move away from oil and coal first, then gradually from gas, and then gradually, perhaps one day, from nuclear. i therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject this objection and to adopt the delegated act, which is the only way to comply with the green pact and the paris agreements in the short term.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. mr president, you are a member of the green group and i believe we share the same desire to tackle the climate crisis. what is your response to the fact that nuclear emits twice as little co2 as wind and ten times less than solar, and what is your response to the ipcc saying that we will not be able to solve the climate challenge we face if we do not do something about nuclear energy, which is now the most decarbonised energy that european countries can have to face this challenge and preserve our energy model?
mr president, at the beginning of the year it was thought that the commission had succeeded in finding a reasonable compromise between states after the green light from its committee of experts. but evidently the scientific argument was not enough to convince the most hostile. the european parliament is among them and is trying to oppose this decision by all means. the anti-nuclear obsession is compounded by the well-founded pretext of the war in ukraine. and what is the credible alternative? it was only a question of granting gas and nuclear power a transitional status under certain conditions. we cannot want to achieve the objectives of the green deal and do without controllable, low-carbon and cheap energy. this objection is bad news for europe and ignores the fundamental issues of decarbonisation, energy sovereignty and competitiveness. and in the present context of rising energy prices, a rejection of the commission's proposal would be unacceptable as it would worsen the situation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that the fight against climate change will require the end of fossil fuels, an objective which cannot be achieved without nuclear energy. look at the situation as it is. by 2050, in france alone, electricity demand is expected to increase by 35% with the development of electric vehicles or a clean hydrogen sector. at the same time, the geopolitical situation forces us to make the energy independence of our continent a top priority. finally, at the moment of the debate, the means of producing renewable energy are intermittent and cannot meet a sudden increase in demand. faced with this reality, the experts of the ipcc and the european commission are firm: the ecological transition will not take place without supplementing renewables with nuclear energy. so tomorrow, when you vote, you will have the choice between supporting nuclear and renewable energy to save the climate, building european energy independence and ending fossil fuels, or burying nuclear, assuming our dependence on coal and extinguishing any hope of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions.
mr president, commissioner, you have spoken of a moment of truth. and the truth, in reality, is that the planet is burning. the truth is that in this context you are carrying out a shameful greenwashing operation by classifying nuclear and gas, which are still the main source of greenhouse gas emissions in europe, as green energy. the truth is that even the experts in your commission have advised against including gas and nuclear in the taxonomy. the truth is that emmanuel macron is in the game by allying with the far right of orbán to destroy the planet. the truth is that taxonomy is also a gift to putin, who will continue to make a gold mine by selling his gas to finance his war. the truth is that the lobbies were right and you gave in to these energy companies after meeting them no less than eight times. the truth, commissioner, is that you have chosen to destroy our future. but the truth is that you have groups in this house who are determined not to let themselves be taken in and who are determined to block the road to this danger to the planet and to our future.
mr president, as we have said, to conclude this debate, a moment of truth is coming. we have heard this evening from colleagues who call themselves environmentalists and who are prepared to sacrifice the energy chain, without which, as the ipcc says, we cannot save the climate. we have heard from our socialist colleagues that they are prepared to sacrifice the energy supply chain which will allow us to control the costs of energy tomorrow, which are now skyrocketing for households, for families, for our companies, for our industries. we have heard from colleagues who claim to defend democracy and yet are prepared, by abolishing the nuclear industry, to make us even more dependent on these authoritarian states which now own gas, oil and rare earths. i am not saying that we should be afraid of the future. this is a historic vote. it will be an opportunity not only to show our commitment to the future of our continent, which began with the energy union and the european coal and steel community, but also to show the sincerity of our convictions, our ability to face reality, to take account of facts, to listen to reason. it is also a certain idea of democracy that is being shaped in our vote tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the world's hunger is a concern for all of us. we have ten fingers. we have ten fingers to do ten things about it. point one: immediately set in motion all the levers to get the wheat out of ukraine. unlock the ports. it has to be done. we urgently need a ban on speculation in food worldwide. we need a debate on the subject of the tank, the plate, the trough. the plates need to be filled more less the trough and less the tank. we urgently need more humanitarian funds, for example for countries in the global south. and we need a debt write-off. these are the five things we need right now. in the long term, and the long term starts now, tomorrow, we need more support for self-sufficiency, which means food sovereignty for all countries. we need to be able to protect crops better, with infrastructure, with storage facilities. we urgently need more regionalism, more circular economy. we urgently need more organic farming. we urgently need the right to seed and the right to propagate worldwide. and we urgently need to stop privatising water worldwide. ten of them. we know them well. we just have to get started.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, this is the first report of this legislature on food safety. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her initiative. food insecurity before the war in ukraine affected in all its forms more than 800 million people in the world. even before the war in ukraine, 17 million people in ethiopia, 16 million people in yemen, 22 million people in afghanistan were in a situation of severe insecurity. and the war has hit like a cruel reality: the use of hunger as a weapon of war in the hands of putin. we must therefore work with our partner countries - developing countries - to improve their food self-sufficiency, working on the resilience of their food systems and supporting farmers, but especially women farmers, and we must step up our humanitarian aid because, let us never forget: the right to food is first and foremost a right.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the war in ukraine has had an immediate impact on agricultural commodity prices and food security. tens of millions of people, especially in africa and the mediterranean region, face hunger or even famine. building food security on the world trade organisation and trade liberalisation has thus resulted in increased dependence on imports of basic goods. when ships no longer call at ports, the specter of famine rises and threatens the poorest. food security in the countries of the south must no longer depend on imports of products subject to speculative logic, which leads to a high volatility of prices that can make access to food dangerous. it can only be built by promoting food sovereignty, which is based on the development of a more autonomous and resilient local agriculture. the wto therefore needs to be reformed as a matter of urgency. this multilateral body is incapable of fulfilling its role as soon as wars appear. the speculation we see developing since february 24, 2022 is unacceptable: the war profiteers are back. the european union must strengthen the regulation of speculation. in this regard, i would urge my colleagues to vote in favour of the mifid objection tomorrow. the european union must also tax the profits of multinationals, as david beasley, director-general of the world food programme, has asked the european parliament's agriculture committee.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, in a world where enough food is produced to feed the entire population, hunger is a matter of politics or, more specifically, of political will. it's not a problem of food shortages, but of how food is distributed. the pandemic or the war in ukraine are aggravating, but the causes of food insecurity have other, much deeper roots: food speculation, deregulated commodity markets, abuses by multinational companies, unfair trade treaties, i.e. the distribution of wealth, injustice and inequality. capitalism is incompatible with food sovereignty. we are living in a war between capital and life, between profit and collective rights. and there is no more basic right than the right to food. if we want to defend it, let us attack the political and economic causes of hunger at its root. otherwise, we'll be the same.
mr president, commissioner, here in strasbourg it is time for dinner. but today, on the same planet, in the southern hemisphere, in madagascar, millions of children will have eaten only a small piece of cassava cake and a small glass of cactus juice: this is the reality of food insecurity. so our collective responsibility requires europe to engage - and it is already doing so with a lot of solidarity - but we also need to tackle the causes of food insecurity. with our partners, we must co-construct solutions adapted to agriculture, access to water, health. but we also need to accelerate the global fight against climate change, which is causing drought, famine and conflict. the urgency is to work together because coherence, efficiency and convergence are the keys to our collective challenge.
mr president, commissioner, i think we are all agreed in this house that we are approaching a food catastrophe in developing countries. and i believe that the european union should take a ‘whatever-it-takes’ approach to the impending crisis. and this could be a turning point in our relations with africa. we started out with president von der leyen at the beginning of her mandate defining the partnership with africa. so it’s important that we take stock right now and imagine where that partnership is. we changed from devco to intpa; that was good, but we have migration conditionality in the global europe instrument. we have automatic safeguards and mirror clauses in gsp. we have lost the battle on the issue of vaccine equity. we have a diversion in specific member states, and a lot of african states are not convinced about global gateway. so we can’t afford to get this wrong, because i believe that the partnership that we have with africa is at a very low point. the european union must lead on this issue.
mr president, the report on food insecurity in developing countries which we are about to vote on is a comprehensive report which proposes to create the conditions for real food sovereignty for developing countries. i support what my colleague, benoît biteau, said earlier on this subject. a subject that deserves more study is that of fishing. in many countries, coastal communities depend heavily on fishing for their food, but competition with foreign fleets is increasing. access to fishery resources by artisanal fishermen must be protected. in west africa, for example, coastal communities fish and consume species such as sardines, which are increasingly being fished by foreign fleets to produce fish meal for aquaculture, including in europe. in madagascar, where the country is facing a major food insecurity situation, almost all tuna caught is exported out of the country. we must not leave the keys to the food system to the agribusiness. last week, at the world ocean conference, fishermen's organisations launched a call for action on small-scale fishing to ask the international community to guarantee access to marine resources and markets for fisheries... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the poverty of women in europe, which we support, stresses that the worsening of the social and economic situation caused by the covid-19 pandemic has increased all forms of abuse and violence against women. that is why i am going to tell you about more than 15,000 carers suspended in france, the majority of whom are women, without pay for almost a year. i met them and saw their suffering firsthand. adulterated during the first wave of covid, they have become invisible, or even eliminated since an infamous decree by macron. so these nurses, these nursing assistants, these firefighters, these doctors, they were suspended because they didn't want to be injected with an experimental product. it's funny, isn't it? no one wants to look into this. they've been on the front lines, they know more about vaccines than anyone, but their consent, which should be free and informed, is belittled, even despised. since the brussels commission wants to lead this covid crisis, let it open its eyes and condemn the infamous macron regime to immediately reinstate all these suspended people. for our humanist values, for our honor.
madam president, mr vice-president, mr prime minister, as you have said, the french presidency of the council of the european union has made historic progress in building a strong europe. climate power, with the adoption of our positions on the climate package. social and educational power, including agreement on a minimum wage in each member state. commercial power, which is asserting itself and finally emerging from naivety. digital power, which sets global standards for regulating platforms. and above all, geopolitical power, alongside ukraine and neighboring democracies in their fight for freedom and against vladimir putin's russia. it is on this excellent record that you can rely, and your presidency is coming to a decisive moment when the key is to maintain the course set and unity, not unanimity. the final negotiations on the climate package, the end of our energy dependence and the adoption of the instrument to combat economic coercion are some of the issues on which parliament is working hard. we need the same commitment from you to build a europe of power for all europeans. mr prime minister, good luck with your presidency.
madam president, the prime minister said here in his intervention that the reform of the european union and the change of the treaties is a long-term exercise. that’s true. but if it is a long-term exercise, prime minister, you have to start early. certainly to be ready for 2024. and as you know, the president of the parliament has triggered article 48, has sent you a letter, and my request to you and the request of the whole parliament is that you react smoothly and swiftly to that request. it’s a limited request – to end unanimity and the national vetoes in the european council because the war in ukraine shows very well that that is the problem in the european union for the moment. we need three months to have an oil embargo in the european union – three months to decide that, because of national vetoes. we have no agreement now on this minimum taxation, a multilateral agreement in an international framework, because of the blackmail and the veto of whom? of hungary. and at the same time we have the whole migration package in limbo because of what? of national vetoes. so the war is showing that that needs to change. so, my request to you is to smoothly say yes to the request of the parliament to have a convention and not to play games about that, minister – like yesterday preparing a letter with the other member states, with a silent procedure, and saying, yeah, but, we wait for a more bold proposal of parliament or article 48. so the council is now saying we cannot say yes to the limited proposal because they ask for a bold proposal! that’s playing games, minister. say yes to what the president of the parliament has asked for. don’t only use the words of havel, act as václav havel.
madam president, i say to the prime minister, i am now going to do my very, very, very traditional and boring speech about the article 7 procedure, which i do every new council presidency, because this procedure is now in your hands and we have to rely on you to make things happen. it was four years ago that this european parliament launched article 7(1) of the treaties against the hungarian government about the situation of democracy, of rights and of freedom in that member state. since then, we have been working tirelessly with all eu presidencies to get the council to move forward. every time you delay the procedures, not only are you giving the hungarian government more leverage to dismantle the rule of law in their own country, but you are allowing them to threaten the whole european project. we count on the czech presidency to be one of those that show leadership and seek to break this cycle of inertia and lack of courage.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the years have gone by, europeans have forgotten the greatest achievement of our union: peace. it's this peace that has allowed us to build our prosperity. this peace that has led to academic exchange, which has been the fertile ground of our freedoms, freedom of movement, freedom of exchange, freedom of enterprise, freedom to live in peace. the freedom that no one today would want to be without. that model made us attractive. and by trying to prevent ukraine from marrying him, vladimir putin has only strengthened his will to join. the far right, ladies and gentlemen, can promote the end of the union. the far left can find any excuse to discredit it and oppose any progress. but we know what we owe to europe and what remains to be done to make it independent and sovereign in an increasingly uncertain world, to make it a stabilizing power. we will do so for ukraine, for moldova and for all states which share a desire for peace.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, the last european council brought to an end a french presidency of the european union which, beyond the narcissistic exercise of a president who too often flees the french election campaigns and debates, has done nothing to remedy the inherent weaknesses and deviations of brussels. "we must move towards a europe that is powerful in the world, fully sovereign, free to make its own choices and master of its own destiny", emmanuel macron modestly announced six months ago. perhaps we have never been further from it. we will certainly have a universal charger, which is far from useless in everyday life. but what does this mean in the face of increased dependence on the americans and nato for defence and foreign policy? failing to maintain military capabilities to meet the challenges and dangers of the world, europe is forced to put its fate in the hands of others. this is the very negation of sovereignty and freedom. instead of consolidating and repairing what should be, the european union continues to run ahead by making enlargement a dogma, even if it means destabilising our economic and social models. the hypocrisy of ecology and the environment continues to grow, and the eusf has taken advantage of its last days to give a nice gift to the trade deregulation by signing a new free trade agreement with new zealand. finally, despite repeated strikes on the chin, emmanuel macron has not made any significant progress in protecting our borders against the intrusions of migrants from the south and the east. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, mr president-in-office, i will be in cash. i would like to talk to you today about an elephant in the room that everyone wants to forget: the change in the european treaties. so yes, it was on the agenda of the last council, i looked it up. what a bitch! in the discussions, the subject seemed to disappear. however, parliament has been very clear about its expectations on this subject. the citizens consulted at the conference on the future of europe were equally concerned: they expect a radical change in the very foundations of the european union. what about emmanuel macron, who was parading around telling anyone who wanted to hear him that the treaties needed to be changed, which he has buried since - certainly since the elections in france? the european heads of state tell us - and i quote the council conclusions - that they are taking note of the citizens' demands. it is a very nice thing to say, but since you are also refusing to discuss the question of treaty changes, i have the feeling that you are treating the citizens as fools. and to sum up, we congratulate the citizens who want to change the european union from the basement to the attic; but we must be serious: everyone must go home, the party is over, we will not touch a comma in the european treaties. we have been warning since the beginning of the conference on the future of europe that a parody of democracy would be very unwelcome to the citizens, who are tired of being ignored. and yet that is exactly what is happening. not only is treaty reform left to the greek calendar, but the eu is more than ever stuck in its neoliberal business as usual. i'll give you an example. last week, bingo! another free trade agreement, this time with new zealand. a brilliant idea indeed: ecological dumping, imports from the other side of the world, our farmers in danger. good, keep it up! and why stop on such a good road? what if we were to accelerate the return of austerity and the famous 3% rule in the midst of the crisis? what if we tightened up the competition rules even more to privatise our trains and our public services? what if we let an independent central bank with no democratic controls hold the fate of 450 million citizens in its hands, who will pay the direct consequences of its decisions? i would like to emphasize once again that the crises we are going through today confirm more than ever the need to change the current european rules in depth. our parliament must take up the matter, call for an accounting, put the matter on the table. we are the only elected representatives of the european institutions here in the european parliament. so let the council be aware: we will not stop demanding that the citizens' voice be respected.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i say to our dear british friends, we live in a time of anxiety: war has come back to europe, inflation is growing and climate change has come into our lives. at such a time, we need to unite, not to be divided. we need to join forces, not to act unilaterally. we need to honour our commitments, not to breach them. and as always, we need to listen to the people. what do people in northern ireland have to say? they elected a majority of mlas who support the northern ireland protocol, provided minor adjustments are made. this is precisely what the eu has offered. we all know there is a landing zone within the protocol. today, the protocol is not the problem. look at the numbers. northern ireland is faring better than the rest of the uk. there is no shortage, except for two essential goods: predictability and trust. the problem that northern ireland is facing, that the uk is facing, has a name. it is not the protocol. the name of the problem is brexit and the type of brexit which was chosen by the current british government.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ukraine is suffering from a war that is becoming more and more devastating. in the face of this, the ukrainian people are a lesson in courage for all of us: they are fighting tirelessly for their country, their children and their agriculture. a farming system different from ours, but solid and productive. agriculture that deserves urgent support from europe to get its production out of the territory. the world needs it to feed itself, ukraine needs it to save its next crop. europe must also be more visionary. europe must help ukrainians to rebuild their agriculture, to accompany its evolution so that it is closer to ours and to start drawing the future of our agricultural models now. strong and sustainable agriculture: building a europe-ukraine union that can respond to the challenge of global food security.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having here today is very important. as things stand, of course, every ton of grain that leaves ukraine and reaches the people who need it is a step forward in the fight against hunger. but how did we get here? how did global food stability come to be at the mercy of putin's whims? our global food system is not resilient: it is a house of cards in precarious equilibrium, vulnerable to the slightest flutter of a butterfly's wings. we are in the midst of the third food crisis in 15 years. the new structural context of the climate and geopolitical crises we are entering forces us to re-examine this functioning. we must get out of the old ricardo dogmas and question the agricultural hyper-specialization of the world's regions organized by the world trade organization. we must create the conditions for each country to pursue food sovereignty policies, support the development of regional food stability centres and restore the agricultural potential that is too often neglected.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the parliament, thank you again for this interesting debate and your input on the challenges and opportunities of the three seas initiative that i will also convey to my fellow commissioners mr breton and ms vălean. connectivity with our neighbours in the east through energy, digital and transport infrastructure is highly relevant in the context of russia’s unprovoked military aggression against ukraine. allow me also a few words on ukraine, a country bordering those of the three seas initiative. ukraine has long been a privileged partner of the union, and this illegal invasion has strengthened the ties between us and accelerated the rapprochement between ukraine and the eu. that’s why our repowereu plan also includes a repowerukraine initiative. it is a particular initiative aiming to ensure security of supply and a proper functioning of the energy sector, paving the way for future trade in electricity and renewable hydrogen. as a clear signal of tangible support, we have also invited ukraine along with moldova, georgia and the western balkans to the eu energy platform, and we are working within the framework of the energy community to integrate our energy markets, enhancing our energy security and resilience. in view of electricity, already in march, the ukrainian electricity grid was synchronised with the european continental grid and this happened with an unprecedented speed and efficiency. and as the next step, last week we started electricity trade with ukraine. so despite the war, we managed to synchronise ukraine and also moldova and their electricity grid is a european one. but there are still three eu member states who remain in this acrimonious area with russia and belarus. these are the three baltic countries, and the projects of the synchronisation of the three baltic states with the european continental grid has been a priority for commission. this is high on our political and financial agenda. the support is very strong and we hope that with co-financing – significant co-financing – from the commission, this process of synchronising three baltic states will be completed at least by the end of 2025.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, let me start with an observation. if we look at transport maps, even very present ones of europe, we can still see some past centres of power gravity in europe. in the case of the czech republic, you can still see the orientation of the transport routes towards the past capital, vienna. it’s a relatively fortunate occasion because we are members of the eu and the connections are very useful these days. but if we look at the eastern part of europe in general, we can still see the russian centre of gravity, which played an important role. the three seas initiative for me is obviously a way how to get rid of this past, which does not correspond to the present geopolitical situation. thank you very much for this debate and all the views shared by the different political groups. indeed, this debate is highly relevant in the current geopolitical situation. the russian war of aggression against ukraine gave the three seas initiative a new, very topical substance. first, energy security, one of the initiative’s priorities, and the question of reducing our dependence on russian fossil fuels, diversification of energy supply and transit routes. or, secondly, the development of digital infrastructure and connectivity. all these are on top of the agenda. the investment in new infrastructure projects in the context of the three seas initiative will be highly beneficial not just for intra-eu connectivity, but also to develop better links to our neighbours to the east and south-east. here i’m thinking of the expansion and modernisation of our highway and railway connections to ukraine. new projects linking three seas initiative members to ukraine will certainly be instrumental for the future rebuilding of the country, but also to ensure that ukraine can benefit from alternatives for its food exports – the issue which we just discussed an hour ago. in this respect, the three seas initiative can be seen as a real contribution to the further integration of our neighbours in the eu and to the stabilisation of the continent. thank you very much for your attention.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on:– the financial activities of the european investment bank – annual report 2021 (2021/2203(ini)) (a9-0165/2022); and on– the control of the financial activities of the european investment bank – annual report 2020 (2021/2235(ini)) (a9-0173/2022).
the rapporteur. madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the annual meeting for the european investment bank's report. my colleagues and i are delighted, on behalf of the committee on budgets, to have this interaction with you. at the first international conference on reconstruction in ukraine, held in lugano, the eib committed itself to participating in this reconstruction. this is an opportunity for me to call for this reconstruction to be carried out with criteria which are also demanding in relation to the world after we want to build, in ukraine of course, but also throughout europe. it is also an opportunity to draw attention to transport, as a working document will be presented on 13 july and as it stands, will still allow investment on roads and motorways. so there's still work and development to be done. since 2019, our objective is to transform the european investment bank into a climate bank. progress has been made since then, with major changes in eib policies with the climate bank roadmap, which endorsed several important commitments, including 50% climate loans, and the end of fossil fuel financing this year, but which is somewhat clouded by the hundreds of millions of euros that were invested, during the transition period, in gas projects. our specific requests are for a necessary background on the financial intermediaries that serve as relays for spending the eib money, on which we do not always have the visibility we would like to have. particular attention - and this is one of the novelties of this year's report - has been paid to the agricultural question, so that we can support specifically agricultural projects that are compatible with the climate challenges, but also specifically with regard to the animal welfare condition. it is also something that my colleagues and i wanted to include in this year's report in order to avoid funding intensive farming. another important issue that made headlines in lisbon a few days ago was the non-financing of deep-sea mining. this is something that is extremely explosive but we really need to watch out for, because there is a temptation to continue mining conquest, including in the ocean floor, when the oceans are already under a lot of pressure with climate change, which is altering their ability to support life. so, of course, mining activities in these fragile environments would be a disaster. finally, i wanted to end on some small progress that could be made on the issue of transparency and human rights. here again, the eib has evolved, but there are new environmental and social standards to be developed further, new transparency policies. i know in particular that in 2010 almost 100% of the reports submitted to the eib's board of directors were public three weeks before the board of directors met. since then, the percentage has fallen to 60%. it is very important to be aware of these reports before they are also submitted to the eib's board of directors, so that the impacts, in particular environmental and social, that the eib's financial commitments may have can be verified in advance. so, congratulations on the efforts that have been undertaken since 2019. to have a real climate bank that is robust, there is still work to be done, and it's not going to be done in a few days or a few months. but we have some leads and many ideas to help you and to accompany you in this evolution.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in the eib's operations, there is an unbridgeable tension between the quasi-public mission and the normal drive to maximise financial performance. and both reports that we are discussing have, in fact, taken into account these particular commitments of the eib as our private bank, which is currently facing the new rules that were voted today, as a bank for the digitisation of smes or for cohesion. and of course, the bank also responds to extraordinary events, extraordinary challenges, like the war in ukraine or, before that, a pandemic. and he will certainly play a vital role in the reconstruction of ukraine. but more important to me than the various business reports is the evidence of the bank's business recognition. i know a certificate. in 2018, president hoyer was honoured by the largest polish economic organisation at a gala in warsaw, and previous honourees have included margaret thatcher, jacques chirac and josé manuel barroso. and i think that the most important test is still ahead of us, which is this dual role of public and commercial in these extraordinarily important times of extraordinary geopolitical challenge.
madam president, commissioner, mr president, i welcome the work of the european investment bank in the last two years of the crisis and i thank the president of the european bank for it. i appreciate your openness to collaboration. we need results, not just in reports and in offices, but in local communities, where citizens feel directly the improvement in their own lives and gain confidence in the european union. i appreciate the high percentage of investment in the environment, biodiversity and sustainability. climate change is already here. there's no time to not invest in green projects. i stress that european money must be protected against corruption and fraud. the european public prosecutor's office shall be responsible for the prosecution of all offences in the member states. one last note on the assets of putin and lukashenko's associates. we don't directly or indirectly finance wars on our border. we expect full reporting, unconditional compliance with sanctions and immediate cessation of ties with these regimes and their partners.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european investment bank is an asset and we need it to remain strong, competent and active. and the economic situation demands it. i congratulate you on having mobilised over eur 95 billion in loans to support the economy and, above all, to support 430 000 businesses. what i am asking for is that more should be done and that, for example, investeu, which has been stalled and is an essential instrument, should be accelerated. i know that competitiveness or the analysis of projects and their quality is essential, but i would also like to see attention paid to territorial cohesion and the less developed regions. i would also stress that it is possible and desirable to create instruments for the capitalisation of enterprises at national level through investeu. i remember that investeu has a national compartment. i know that there are member states, like mine, which do not have development banks, which are not well-established financial institutions for development. however, i ask the european investment bank, together with national governments, to help create instruments for the capitalisation of companies, which is absolutely necessary at a time like this.
madam president, as a rapporteur in the last mandate for investeu, i want to thank mr hoyer and the eib and the european commission for rolling out this very important instrument for the european union. now i am a rapporteur for the epp for the energy performance of buildings directive and the renovation of the eu’s building stock is a key green deal priority. however, at present, there is a funding gap of eur 214 billion a year for green financing for residential buildings, which will require a greater input from bank loans. currently, 72% of renovations are self-funded, while only 18% of consumers are taking loans to renovate their homes, because they are too expensive. the energy performance of buildings directive, under article 15, expands the toolbox for member states. it includes energy efficiency loans and mortgages for building renovations. so, a question, mr hoyer: does the european investment bank envisage the establishment of an eu-wide renovations guarantee fund, enabling credit institutions to reduce their risk exposure on green mortgage portfolios, and so improve access to renovation loans for vulnerable households? finally, i would like to thank the eib also for their assistance for ukraine – quick and positive.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, president hoyer, i would like to thank you for the interesting debate held here today. the committee’s reports testify that the eib is overall on a very good path, in particular as a frontrunner in the area of climate action and as a role model for other international financial institutions in their quest to become paris—aligned. i also thank parliament for its support to the discussions on the eib’s role as the union’s major partner implementing eu funds. i very much look forward to continuing this discussion and our close cooperation. as corina crețu said as a former commissioner for regional development, and i am the former minister for regional development in my country, i want to thank the eib for the very good cooperation. because what we also hear at this place is that without the action and availability of the eib, the focal funding of the structural funds, the structural policy and the cohesion policy would not be so successful as it is.
eib. – madam president, i thank you so much for this wealth of comments and questions. and i promise you one thing: i will not even try to answer them all. simply too much and too diversified. but i promise you that we will come back to each and every one of you individually in order to give you the responses that you deserve. i touch upon a few items, which i consider particularly relevant. first, i think it was ms grapini who first who mentioned the issue of smes and the need to emphasise our work on smes, in particular in cohesion countries. the fact is, that per capita, the work on smes in cohesion countries clearly outnumbers the activities in non-cohesion countries. so we are indeed particularly ambitious in this field. the second issue, and i take that extremely seriously, is the transparency issue. we’ve been trying to get better there. we’ve been making progress here and there, sometimes making steps backwards first to do them. but, we try even when we need to acknowledge that the more we do private-sector business, the more we ‘suffer’ from confidentiality requirements imposed on us from the private-sector partners. that doesn’t make things easier, but we try everything in our talks with the promoters to come to an agreement to publish for all projects over eur 50 million and give the necessary transparency to you. this critical issue is a flip side of mobilising private investments and support innovation, and this is key for the future of the european economy. in this context, let me say that i was a little bit surprised by the remark about vaccine development and production. surprised because it’s one of the areas where we in eib are particularly proud. when i first heard of something coming up – and i was told in january 2020 this could be more than an epidemic situation, it could develop into a pandemic – i then read through the literature and found out that, okay, in these situations, maybe vaccinations would be useful if there is a vaccine, but that normally takes 5 to 10 years to develop. so we then talked to our life science experts in the bank – and this is one of the unique features of eib: we are a bank that is to a large extent, driven by natural scientists, by engineers and not by people who are good at counting numbers. that is necessary as well, of course. but a lot of times people told us, well, president, are you aware that for a couple of years we are cooperating with the small team of researchers at the university of mainz and we finance their development of a cancer medication on the basis of a new technology. everybody now knows that technology. at that time, none of us did – mrna, never heard of it. and that technology led these people to develop the biontech vaccine within six or eight months. it was clear miracle. but you need to be able to go into that risk. this is something a private commercial bank could not have done. with the backing of the shareholders of eib and the backing of the european commission and support of this house, it was possible. you might go into losses with projects like that, and then it’s necessary to have a wider, broader portfolio that levels out positive and negative experiences. this, of course, was a very, very positive experience and nowadays, half the commercial world would have been happy to be the inventor of this medication and this vaccine. so you need to do these things. so therefore, i think i simply do not grasp the logic behind the criticism against the biontech vaccine. fourth point, so, i thought i can promise you we will not backtrack. and i’m not at all an ideologist when it comes to these things. but when we went out of fossil fuels in 2019, in the speech in the general assembly of the united nations, for which i did not have the backing of my own board yet, i realised immediately that the bosses of blackrock were doing the same thing vis-à-vis their private asset holders. they said, i cannot explain to my asset holders that we are investing in something, which looks very good, is very helpful in the short run, but we know that we need to write it off within 15 or 20 years, but it will be on our balance sheet for 40 or 30 years. this doesn’t fly with the private sector and one should not do it open-eyed in the public sector. no, no. the present crisis, as serious as it is – and we will have, in my opinion, two tough winters ahead in europe – must lead us to an acceleration of our efforts in this field of energetic transformation. fifth point, we cooperate very well with the european court of auditors. i know that there are other ambitions, but the relationship between the eib and the court of auditors is laid down and the competence of the eca is laid down in the treaty. it cannot simply be changed by an agreement. so that would be a very, very big issue to undertake. so it goes without saying, of course, and therewith i come to an end, that we are in full compliance with applicable sanctions. sometimes we were ahead of time when we closed our business in russia immediately after crimea. and when we acted on ukraine within seven days after the beginning of the war and, to be honest, it was a very courageous step on the side of my shareholders and the board members of the bank that they agreed on behalf of their member states to this proposal at a time when you are not so in full command of all the details in a country which is at war. and being at war is for all of us a new experience, and we must get used to it and hopefully overcome that situation soon. mr kelly asked about a guarantee fund for green mortgages. i’m open to this. these ideas of bundling projects is a very interesting and useful one – in some countries of the european union i would like to see more of it. for instance, when i was new at the bank, we found out that the situation of the the buildings, the quality of the buildings for schools in ireland were sometimes shameful. and individual local school owners or magistrates would come to us and say, can’t you do this or that? well, we cannot do that for 500 schools individually. but then we arrived at the idea of school bundling, and within three years that thought, that thing had been taken care of by this project of school bundling. we can do that in other circumstances as well. and a guarantee fund for green mortgages might be an interesting means for that. thank you very much for your interest and your support.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr president, thank you for these exchanges and discussions. i have little to add except to urge us to persevere with three words: consistency, constancy and courage. the european investment bank is consistent with the question of investments in environmental problems. consistency means going all the way and not at the same time financing projects that are still carbon-intensive. but we are on the path of consistency. consistency is about persistence in effort, even when there are emergency situations - as i mentioned earlier in relation to ukraine. even when things have to be rebuilt after a tragedy like the one in ukraine, we will need to be consistent in continuing to respect these values that we hold dear. and then courage -- you talked about that at the end -- is about making the hard choices. it is also about making sure that we are always moving towards greater transparency, challenging ourselves. you have mentioned your scientific expertise internally at the european investment bank. there may also be a need for standard-setting staff to take greater account of human rights or gender issues in funding, so that women benefit as much as men from the european investment bank's investments. so i wish you and i wish us all consistency, steadiness and courage in order to continue to move forward positively with the european investment bank.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, it is hard to believe, and it is painful to say, but there are parties in our union and in our parliament that are dishonoring themselves and europe. it is hard to believe, but there are members here who did not want to condemn the atrocities committed by the wagner group, who did not want to sanction russia, who did not want to help ukraine or give it the status of a candidate for the european union and who did not want to denounce either the poisoning of alexei navalny or the closure of memorial. some of these elected representatives are now members of the french national assembly, others are still sitting in our seats. we wish that jean-luc mélenchon had never said that vladimir putin was going to solve the problem in syria, that he had never spoken - i quote - of the "neo-nazi government in kiev", that he had never called - i quote - for "patience, the collapse of the ukrainian economy, the disintegration of this country that is struggling so hard to be one: everything comes to those who know how to wait", as he wrote when he was an mep in 2015. we wish that thierry mariani had never doubted the crimes of the russian army in mariupol or butcha. we would like to see no members of parliament travelling to crimea at the expense of the russian state for bogus election observation operations. it is hoped that the national rally will not be in debt to a russian arms company that is trading with bashar al-assad. it's hard to believe that all this is possible. and yet, these are facts and it's a shame.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, denouncing putin's interference is a necessary fight, which deserves to be fought with as much rigor as firmness, particularly in the context of the war in ukraine. for a month now, the liberals and the right - as mrs loiseau has just done, who has obviously left the chamber - have been back and forth between the left and the far right, exploiting this issue, the left and the far right, who are in complete opposition to each other. because it is the fascists of the austrian fpö and the northern league who sign agreements with putin's party. the german afd, orbán's fidesz and the french rassemblement national all share his nationalist, racist and reactionary ideology. it is le pen who is financed by russian banks and prints leaflets with her arms above, arms below with vladimir putin. how dare you associate our group on the left, a historic bulwark against fascism, with these disgusting ideas? this little game is extremely dangerous, as the far right threatens our democracies all over europe. the example of france is striking in this respect. by playing this game and designating the left as public enemy number one, he allowed the election of 89 far-right mps. since then, all barriers have fallen with his government reaching out to the national assembly. we would never have imagined that we would be supporting far-right vice-presidents here in the european parliament. yet that is what emmanuel macron's camp in france did. that is why this debate should not suffer any embarrassment, because this is what the far right thrives on. and remember this lesson from history: when the far right takes power, it very rarely gives it back. hello, good to see you.
madam president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, in the special committee on interference which i have the honour of chairing, we have been working for two years on the 'how'. today is the time to ask the question 'why'. why is vladimir putin sponsoring far-right movements across europe? why do its networks support both anti-western pan-africanists and western white supremacists, the most radical catalan independenceists and the most virulent spanish nationalists? why are kadyrov's militias, who are waging jihad against europe, supported in the same way as the most anti-muslim movements in the very heart of our cities? why the seeming contradictions? why do russian propaganda channels film every incident in our countries as if it were the beginning of a civil war? why is the kremlin using the wheat weapon to raise the specter of famine in africa? why are russian hackers attacking our hospitals in the middle of a pandemic? it is vital that you find the answers to these questions. we are unwittingly engaged in a confrontation that will be long and brutal. and to understand the ambition and strategy of the opponent, we must step out of ourselves, abandon the clichés about the chess player and stop believing that our enemies reason in the same way as we do. we would have been less surprised by the return of war on european soil if we had read, listened to and analysed the texts and speeches of the russian leaders for the past 20 years. we would have understood then that they feel themselves engaged in a fight to the death against our democracies. we would have been less surprised if we had read carefully the accounts of mr. sourkov, for example, putin's polytechnologist, long in charge of his ukrainian policy, and in particular his novel "without sky": it is the story of a people whose sky has literally fallen, who lives in the forest and dreams of taking revenge on the inhabitants of the neighboring city - a clear metaphor for the european union - not to enjoy its wealth, but to plunge it into chaos. yes, the strategy put in place by putin, surkov and the russian leadership has a name: it is the strategy of chaos. it doesn't matter what the losses are or the contradictions, what matters is spreading the chaos. putin's bet is simple: we won't live in chaos and we will give in. so let's stop dreaming about coming to our senses and prepare for the coming winter. there will be no peace, colleagues, until the engineers of chaos are defeated.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, thank you very much for this discussion. we already had several discussions in the past, and i was listening carefully to the opinions of the honourable members of parliament. always we can summarise the debate in the sentence ‘we have a serious problem in europe’. every year we receive the reports from our permanent representations depicting the level or the impact of extremism, extremist parties on society. i have it here with me – 40 pages of really irritating, alarming reading. we see that the situation is worsening year by year. the extremists are exploiting the multiple crisis we go through: covid and now the russian invasion to ukraine and its consequences on european union citizens. we see to that the extremists are, of course, exploiting also the possibility of using the digital space for spreading disinformation. you discussed it very broadly here. what we can read from all these messages, the message from the extremists is: the worse, the better in europe. that’s why i think that it’s very clear that we have to be active, and we have to not only analyse the situation or to collect the data, to do the mapping, but we have to take action. most of the work still lies with the member states because this is first and foremost an issue falling under the security area, but also the european union has to do its work. i would mention the proposal for a regulation on transparency and targeting of political advertising. this is the regulation, which is now in the legislative process, which i believe might be very useful in disclosing who is behind the political ads. i think that the people should know what they read. also, the proposal to recast the regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties. indeed, by this piece of legislation, we cover only the european political parties, but also we say or give the message to the member states: don’t you think it would be useful if you follow this example, and make stricter rules, for instance, for the donations from outside, and be more vigilant when it comes to the conditions for national political parties, and the financing of extremism. it’s a great thing that you as co—legislators, vis—à—vis the council, decided on the digital regulation, because i think that here we have very clear rules which might diminish or minimise the impact of illegal content and extremist content which falls under criminal law, and its appearance and amplification through digital tools. i think that it’s also good that we have the new code of practice against disinformation. here i have to react shortly on all those contributions which many were mentioning, of course, in fact on spreading disinformation, that we are introducing censorship in the eu. because when you read through the code of practice against disinformation, this is mainly the mechanism which seeks to protect freedom of speech in the eu. that’s why we did not take tough measures against disinformation, and that’s why we go through the voluntary mechanism and with the engagement of civil society researchers and many people in the european union, who want to contribute to protection of facts. we are looking at facts. we are not restricting anyone’s right to declare things and to share opinions with the society. it’s important for me to emphasise when i work on this agenda, on fighting against disinformation, my job description in fact is also to protect your and everyone else’s right to state publicly their opinions. so i think that we should understand better this. last comment. we do not have still precise data. we should have better data about the impact of disinformation from the platforms by the end of this year. but the data we already have show that no country is immune against disinformation and against russian war propaganda. where the propaganda is most successful is in the countries where they have very agile proxies, the political forces, those who are helping to spread this propaganda, either for political or financial gain. so this is the reality now, and that’s why it’s important that you had this discussion, and that we continue our cooperation with parliament, because i think that, again, as i said at the beginning, the european union has a problem which is very important to be addressed by practical, legislative and non—legislative responses.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, vice-president jourová, honourable members, today’s debate definitely shows the complexity of foreign interference in our democratic life, whose principles and values are under constant attack from authoritarian regimes. we must continue to work on defending our values, freedom and democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. at the same time, we must work on strengthening our resilience by strengthening our civil society, free media and independent institutions across our continent. because the long-term prosperity and stability of europe is founded on functional democratic mechanisms. voices warning against foreign interference have been there for a while and became stronger over the past years. the recent covid-19 pandemic has further revealed new vulnerabilities in our societies, including in the information space. and indeed, the russian war of aggression only confirmed the urgency of robust action on our side, now more than ever. the council as a whole attaches particular importance to protecting our democratic processes, institutions and societies from any foreign interference. and as you heard from our prime minister this morning, this is also one of the top priorities of the czech presidency. the council will continue to support the joint efforts made together with other european institutions to make progress on devising ambitious and determined european responses to these issues.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission communications on the taxation of unplanned revenue of energy companies (2022/2747 ((rsp)). i would remind you that you are free to choose your seat in the chamber, except for the first two rows reserved for group leaders. you can then make requests for the free microphone procedure and the blue card using the voting machine as soon as you have inserted your voting card into it. i would also like to remind you that you will continue to have to speak from the centre stand in the chamber, except in cases where you have to speak because of a free microphone, a blue card or because of a breach of the rules of procedure.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of taxing the windfall profits of energy companies has emerged in the context of the current energy crisis, and it has been floated as a possible measure to compensate high energy prices. the czech presidency is of the view that taxing the windfall profits of energy companies is indeed among the tax measures that could be considered in a context where both households and companies are suffering greatly from the steep rise of energy prices. while in general taxation, especially direct taxation, is a national competence, some elements of taxation are covered under the current eu taxation framework, which also contains a few provisions for responding to exceptional situations. as you know, the european council has stated that the temporary taxation of all regulatory interventions on windfall profits can be a useful source of national financing. i am aware that also the european parliament, in its resolution from may, shared the view of the european council on the taxation of windfall profits and called on the commission and the member states to coordinate the design of windfall profit taxation schemes in the current context. member states are working hard to mitigate the current energy crisis and take up measures depending on the specific situations in their respective member states. this is a topic that is very important also to the czech presidency. tax measures, including taxing the windfall profits of energy companies, are certainly worth considering. some european countries, such as portugal and spain, have already started to tax the windfall profits of energy companies. their experience is surely interesting to observe in order to see whether this measure fulfils its objective, has a real effect and proves useful. if so, i am sure other member states could wish to take it up as well. the czech presidency will continue to monitor this issue and discuss with member states how tax measures could counter the current eu energy price surge.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, russia’s acceptable military aggression on ukraine has not only caused a humanitarian catastrophe that is likely to worsen due to the food supply crisis worldwide, but has also had a disastrous effect on energy prices, putting households and businesses across the eu under big pressure. against a backdrop of strong post-pandemic demand, the unresponsive supply of gas and the uncertainty created by the war in ukraine have driven gas prices and by extension, the prices of oil products such as petrol and gas oil used in road transport, up in europe and globally. in a global market and a unified european energy market, a higher price for gas translates into higher energy electricity prices overall. the impact of these gas prices increases against a backdrop of broader inflationary tendencies is most severely felt by vulnerable households, transport users and vulnerable micro enterprises. as mentioned in the letter addressed by my colleague, paolo gentiloni, to ecofin ministers in april, our policy response needs to be guided by the principles of effectiveness, consistency and equity. we should avoid going for seemingly convincing solutions that are easy to implement, whose effectiveness in helping those most in need to afford energy is questionable. let me also stress that we have a duty and commitment to tackle the climate crisis. measures taken to address short-term issues of energy affordability or security of supply should not undermine but accelerate our long-term ambition for climate neutrality by 2050 and have to be consistent with the european green deal. thirdly, and more importantly, this is about equity. yes, all of us are paying higher prices at the gas station, in our energy bills or in the supermarket. but not all of us require help to the same extent. we should strive to put in place measures that target those households that are most in need. today we discuss a specific proposal that is intensively discussed at the moment, both in academia and in the political debate – so-called windfall profit taxes. indeed, there is growing evidence that some companies in the energy market, such as the infra-marginal electricity generators, currently obtain excessive extraordinarily high profits resulting from the current energy market situation. these are also known as windfall profits. so what is a windfall profit tax? a windfall profit tax is a tax on companies that have seen their profits surge extraordinarily and unexpectedly, not because of any clever investment decision they have taken or an increase in efficiency or innovation, but simply because of a sudden favourable change in market conditions. as economists explain, properly implemented taxes on these windfall profits is efficient because it raises revenues without affecting business decisions. resources will still be allocated in order to maximise their economic potential and not to avoid taxation. revenues raised in such an efficient manner again and should therefore be used to support vulnerable consumers as member states can distribute such revenues among final consumers, offsetting the negative impact of current high energy prices. this can be encouraged as contrary to measures that directly intervene in the functioning of the market, that the taxation of windfall profits leaves markets’ economic efficiency intact. therefore, already in the repowereu communication from march this year, the commission stated that member states may exceptionally consider implementing such a tax, but such a measure needs to be carefully designed to avoid undesirable market distortions and avoid discouraging investments in renewable energy. the guidelines put forward by the commission in march indicated in particular that the measure should not be retroactive, should be technologically neutral, and allow electricity producers to cover their costs, should protect the long-term market signals, and protect the carbon price signals of the eu emissions trading system. that is crucial for the decarbonisation of the power system. moreover, it should be time limited, a one off temporary measure. one of the key challenges, both from an economic and legal perspective, is the definition of excessive profits. the method for that calculation would have to be clearly specified and justified and should be directly linked to real additional profits generated by higher energy prices. since the march communication, a number of member states such as spain, bulgaria, romania and italy have introduced temporary tax measures on such excessive windfall profits of some energy-generating companies to capture part of these extraordinary profits. but despite these measures and considerable efforts in other areas by both member states and the commission, we have to acknowledge that the many issues we are trying to tackle persist. other measures are discussed, including, as you are well aware, a gas price cap that has been recently discussed at the g7 summit in elmau, possibly through coordinated purchases. acknowledging the magnitude of the challenge means also developing a policy response, building on a mix of measures that are complementary and consistent. as regards the windfall profit taxes, our services are intensifying the legal and economic analysis of such measures to see if there is additional scope for the commission to help this coordinated and sensible approach in the eu to windfall profit taxes. with this in mind, i would like to thank you for scheduling this timely debate on this important issue – a debate that i am sure will continue in the weeks to come.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, it sounds very charming: someone makes a lot of money, and you should be able to tax it away. and then i wonder, who defines what is a profit margin? is there a winner of the year? if i take the last company in germany that made huge profits, it's biontech, a company that made a vaccine available that was initially a monopoly and made huge profits from it. the consequence is that the city of mainz is now debt-free, which it has never been in its history. the consequence is that the land of rhineland-palatinate suddenly has tax revenues that it never had in the past. and this shows that even without windfall profit taxation, our tax system works. those who make profits pay higher taxes. i have a certain problem with access, because on the other hand i am also faced with the question - and, commissioner, you have pointed out: if we urgently need investment now, we also need to enable businesses to have the means to invest. we're running out of supplies as demand increases. that this leads to higher prices - at least anyone who has studied the market economy understands this. maybe we have a problem understanding the market economy. but the truth is, we have to make sure that we're making improvements and making changes on the supply side. we need investment for that. but if we take away the profits of the companies that are supposed to invest so that they can't invest, why should the public sector do that again? so, i just want to ask, does this all add up? and if i look at a big gas supplier in my country, the problem is not that they make windfall profits, but they make big losses. so it's not that simple that you suddenly make huge profits because that's the way the market is, but it's very different from company to company. that is why we need sensible tax systems that actually tax profits properly. this includes the oecd minimum tax, other measures and not additional taxes.
i am pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the house. more than 100%: the profits of energy companies explode to nausea. if everything else was fine or if these profits were the result of revolutionary innovations, we would be delighted. but this is the fruit, not of a market economy, as markus ferber has just said, but of an income. these profits are now made on the backs of the ecology, the citizens struggling to make ends meet, the breath of scarcity and war. these are not exceptional profits, they are abnormal, disturbing, unacceptable profits. we know how to tax them, we already taxed them in the first and second world wars. that is why we are calling for a tax on them at european level. some countries are already doing so, others are delaying, starting with my country, france. we are telling these countries that the winter will be tough on energy, with economic, social and political consequences that we can easily imagine. these energy companies owe money to society. they owe money to the citizens who feed those profits. not to tax them would be a moral error and an injustice, and we risk biting our fingers. so let's tax them, instead of letting them choke on their own gluttony.
mr president, the resolution adopted in may, which opened the possibility of creating a new tax on the exceptional profits of energy companies, was intended to combat price rises and to strengthen the energy independence of the european union. the duration of this tax was to be limited in time and was to respond to a specific crisis. in the present context, this tax is necessary and must be applied. however, we cannot ignore some of the larger limitations and urgencies. the situation varies widely from one member state to another. while italy has been able to recover a few billion through this tax, france refuses to use such a tax, because companies in the electricity sector have already helped to offset the effects of the crisis. moreover, such a tax is likely to undermine investment, especially if we really want to achieve the objectives of carbon neutrality. at the same time, the european union maintains targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which are putting a huge strain on our european industries, and, driven by necessity, is reopening coal-fired power stations across europe. from an ecological point of view, this is an aberration, a direct consequence of the sanctions against russia. this should have led to increased funding for the nuclear industry, which is less polluting and perfectly competitive. without support for the nuclear industry, we will have to choose between fighting russia with sanctions or fighting global warming. the same resolution also called for the rapid end of fossil fuel subsidies, which could lead to skyrocketing prices. the accumulation of sanctions against russia, the rejection of nuclear energy, the rejection of fossil fuels and the sickening blockade by the european union of the idea of questioning the european energy market are leading us straight to the dramatic explosion of prices that will bring our economies and even millions of europeans to their knees... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, i wanted to show you this: it's just a small ticket for a full tank of petrol for over 100 euros. this is the case in france, but it is also the case in many countries. i don't know if we realize it: 100 euros is just to be able to move, to be able to go to work and sometimes it only lasts a week. that's the amount of money that's being put into the budgets of millions of people to eat, to pay for the kids' summer camp, to pay for the rent, to keep warm. in short, the price of gasoline - we all felt it - has increased by 44% in one year. at the same time total's profits increased by 42%. i don't know about you, but the problem seems pretty obvious. in the first half of the year alone, total made €5 billion in profits in france. if you divide that by the number of people who drive to work, that's 100 euros a month. so don't tell us that taxing the profits of these crisis profiteers and blocking prices is impossible. boris johnson's uk has done that. i don't think you can call him a bolshevik. commissioner, you know how to impose restrictions on citizens. so for once, show that you can be equally firm with the corporations that profit from the crisis and tax them.
the commission is therefore proposing that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the post-cotonou agreement. respect for the independence and legitimacy of the various institutional bodies. i shall therefore not comment on the reasons why the post-cotonou agreement is still on the back burner, after it has been possible to reach an agreement to move forward with a multilateral partnership between equals, with a strong parliamentary dimension, and in line with the major priorities of sustainable development, in a very close and committed work of the commission, the council, the european parliament and the organisation of african, caribbean and pacific states. the truth is that it has been awaiting ratification by the council since june 2021 and requires a further extension of the cotonou agreement, which should have expired in february 2020. there is a greater cause, mr president-in-office, which does not allow us to keep silent about the damage caused by the delay in ratifying and entering into force of the new agreement. it's just that the world has changed. the geopolitical european union is now engaged in a brutal struggle for relevance and survival in the name of its values and founding principles. and the post-cotonou agreement represents a reference for the changing direction of the emerging global order. it includes 106 countries on four continents. it includes the second largest joint parliamentary assembly in the world, three regional joint parliamentary assemblies which follow on from the current eu-acp parliamentary assembly, which i am proud to co-chair. it covers key thematic areas. it is essential for the implementation of instruments such as global europe or the global gateway. i therefore insist that the post-cotonou agreement is a crucial reference for the direction of change. it must be put into effect immediately. at the moment, this is up to the council and i make a strong appeal to them to do everything possible to achieve this.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, minister, like my colleagues, i would like to remind you of the urgency of the situation. we must ratify the new agreement between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific countries. we are living in a time of tension that is affecting every continent: wars, pandemics, climate emergency, and now the increased risk of famine and food shortages. we have had an agreement for over a year. an agreement that is relevant to the environmental, social and digital challenges of our century. an agreement that strengthens a win-win partnership with africa, the caribbean and the pacific. it is time to give this new impetus to our relations and to build a stronger, deeper and more lasting cooperation. we are ready here in the european parliament. commissioner, you said you were ready. in the european parliament we have already, on several occasions, stressed the urgency of finalising the post-cotonou agreement, as we did in strasbourg last april, in particular at the 41st session of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly. so how do we explain the fact that this agreement is still blocked in the council? how is it that the hungarian veto has still not been overcome? hungary under viktor orbán cannot, on its own and under false pretenses, take our relations with those who shape the future of the european union hostage. this situation has gone on too long and the european union must send a strong signal. our partners are counting on us and we must prove ourselves worthy of that trust - for us, for them, for everyone.
author. – madam president, dear colleagues, let me begin by paying tribute to the brave cardinal zen, who is a true symbol of hong kong’s struggle for freedom and embodies christian pursuit of freedom and love of one’s neighbour. it is in the intention of john lee and his ccp masters to destroy the last remains of hong kong’s autonomy and freedoms and crush people’s hopes, and the moral strength of the 90-year-old cardinal towering over the city. that’s why it is no coincidence that cardinal zen and the other trustees of the 612 humanitarian relief fund have been arrested and charged. the arrest is an attack on the freedom of religion and belief, as well as on all the freedoms guaranteed in hong kong’s basic law. moreover, the ccp is keen to silence the cardinal because he continues to stand and speak on behalf of the weak and oppressed across mainland china and hong kong. but it is this christian mission that the ccp can never silence nor break. the faith of cardinal zen is that of the city itself. and our voice must be clear: we must urge the hong kong authorities to drop all charges against cardinal zen and the other trustees, as well as all the hong kongers whose only crime has been standing up for the city’s freedoms. it is also time for the council to fulfil and implement all the july 2020 conclusions. in particular, member states should provide lifeboat schemes for hong kongers to end all the remaining extradition treaties both with hong kong and with the prc. hong kongers and all fleeing persecution of the ccp must feel safe in europe. we must also ensure that our diplomatic representations and the eeas provide support to the civil society and actively steps up trial observations, prison visits and human rights monitoring. furthermore, it is essential that the council finally place targeted sanctions under the eu’s magnitsky act against john lee and all other hong kong and prc officials representing the ongoing human rights crackdown in the city. given the destruction of hong kong’s autonomy, it is time to review the agreement between the ec and hong kong in customs matters, the status of the hong kong office in brussels and hong kong’s seat at the wto. the ccp should not profit from hong kong while destroying the city’s autonomy and freedoms. let me also stress the importance of working together with the vatican and other religious leaders, as well as with our democratic allies, to defend freedom and human dignity and give a voice to the voiceless in mainland china and hong kong. finally, let me thank colleagues across this house for cooperation on this important urgency. it is a testimony to the strong cross-party unity in standing with the people of hong kong.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, kiev is not hong kong, taiwan is not ukraine, china is not russia. we all know that, it's obvious. but beyond these differences of nation, geography, culture, let us look at the reality. the reality is that in beijing as in moscow we are faced with regimes that want to destroy democracy, that want to ensure the triumph of dictatorship over freedom, that want to ensure the triumph of moral, police, social order over what they call decadence and what we call freedom. so, cardinal zen, rest assured: we will defend you and through you the cause you represent, the cause of china's freedoms, with as much zeal, with as much zeal, as we defend the freedom of ukraine.
author. – madam president, vice—president, commissioner, colleagues, the european parliament has stood, and still stands and will continue to stand with hong kong. this parliament continues to actively show solidarity with hong kong democrats against the chinese communist oppression. last week, several members of this house reminded us of the 25th anniversary of the handover of hong kong to the mainland authorities, and the second anniversary of the imposition of the national security law. this is the history of a betrayal, the betrayal of the trust of the citizens of hong kong and a betrayal also of the international community. with this joint resolution, we strengthen our resolve to not forget and to not cease supporting. we want the charges dropped against cardinal zen, who is a towering figure but is also representing many, many other courageous hong kongers. we want the extradition agreements that still exist between eu member states and the prc and even hong kong terminated. we want lifeboat opportunities created for hong kongers that have to flee their city. and we want permanent monitoring of the human rights situation in hong kong through our offices there. we will continue to stand tall. only extremists from the left and the right do not join this call.
author. – madam president, it is so painful to speak every time about hong kong, showing precisely the nature of atrocities against ordinary peace-loving and democracy-loving people who, as my colleague said minutes ago, were betrayed by neighbours. and that shows the real nature of the communist regime, regardless of propaganda. the arrest and charges against an authority, a great authority, 90-year-old cardinal zen, shows how vicious, brutal this regime can be. we stand by him. we call on the international community to use every power possible to exert pressure on prc to drop charges against cardinal zen and other people of hong kong who simply want to live in peace. and we have to work with the vatican. for me, a pole, it is a reminder of the faith and brave behaviour of our leader, the primate of poland, cardinal stefan wyszyński. it is the fate of leaders, of spiritual leaders, but we have to defend them by all our force.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, i strongly support this resolution and i thank all co—rapporteurs, especially miriam lexmann, for your work. it has been 56 days since hong kong’s national security police arrested the 90—year—old cardinal joseph zen, one of asia’s oldest and most outspoken catholic clergy. he was arrested along with three other people from completely different fields of activity: singer and actress denise ho, lawyer margaret ng and scientist hui po keung. reason for the arrests: alleged collusion with foreign forces. one thing they had in common – and as we know now, the thing that was the real reason for their arrest – was their role as trustees of the 612 humanitarian relief fund. as political activist nathan law, a former student of the arrested scientist hui po keung, said, when you want to punish someone, you always find an excuse. and this is doubly true for countries with an authoritarian regime. the arrests were the latest move by authorities in enforcing the controversial national security act, which was imposed on this city in june 2020. i fully agree with what labour’s shadow minister for asia and the pacific catherine west said: that the arrests are further evidence of china’s effort to suppress the opposition in hong kong, which is completely contrary to the freedom promised to hong kong. the activities of cardinal zen and the rest of his team were completely peaceful and lawful. their arrest is an example of the appalling decline in respect for human rights that we are witnessing in china. support and respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law should be central to the eu’s relations with china. that is why the european parliament calls upon the eu and its member states to take all necessary steps to push china to end the breaking of human rights and ensure responsibility for these crimes committed. we also reiterate our call on the commission and the member states to review the agreement between the european community and hong kong, china on cooperation and mutual administrative assistance in custom matters, the status of the hong kong economic and trade office in brussels, and the hong kong seat at the world trade organization. thank you for your attention and for the support for the resolution.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to dare to hold your head high when everything is telling you to bend your back is courage. cardinal zen, at 90, is now the face and name of human dignity, along with jimmy lai, joshua wong and hundreds of others. in hong kong, the list of political prisoners grows larger every day, the cells are full and the puppet trials are one after another. collusion with a foreign power, incitement to subversion, apologizing for terrorism, conspiring to distribute a seditious publication: beijing criminalizes the slightest desire for freedom. the chinese communist party plans to build the world's first banking and financial services hub in hong kong. he does so on the graveyard of the democratic hopes of a people. our own financial markets, our banks, our multinationals are acting as accomplices. it is time to end these complicities, support the hong kong democrats, including by sending observers to each of their trials, and echo in this hall their slogan: "liberate hong kong, revolution of our times".
for the greens/efa group mr president, yesterday italy declared a state of emergency in five regions because of the drought. every drop of water in the po valley has been cut off, several hydroelectric plants have ceased operation, more than 30% of agricultural production is at risk and the production of drinking water is cut off between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. without water, life dies out, as italians are sadly experiencing at the moment. droughts have become the norm: no country in the european union and the world is spared. the privatisation of groundwater, the artificialisation of soils, the destruction of wetlands and the over-exploitation of resources are the main culprits. water is common, it is now considered a good. in september, a resolution will be voted on the drought. until then, ladies and gentlemen, i would urge you to think, on the basis of objective data and worrying findings, of innovative, creative and effective solutions which would not be a new leap forward, which would rather tackle the causes than the consequences, because it is more urgent than ever to act to finally get out of this desert of divisions by sea.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, when do you intend to draw up a green transition plan that is both sustainable for the environment and sustainable for europeans? this is obviously not the case today, because this draft regulation is purely utopian and schizophrenic. first, only 6% of flights, long-haul flights, generate half of the co2 emissions of aviation. so why focus on short-haul flights? there's no logic in this project. second, you do not seem to realize the financial cost of such adjustments. you're forcing airports to build supercharging stations by 2025. however, nothing in this text clearly indicates to what extent airports and airlines will be subsidised. the project will therefore put a number of european airlines such as ryanair, easyjet and many others out of business, once again exposing them to unfair foreign competition. nor does it address the scarcity of resources. the production of this green fuel is based on the use of agricultural and forestry residues, algae, biomass or used cooking oils. these resources are so scarce that the rate of production to meet demand will not be sustainable. furthermore, by producing more green fuel, manufacturers will mechanically increase their carbon footprint. because the real idea behind this project is not to reduce the carbon footprint. it's just that anything that isn't electric is once again an enemy to be taken down. you no longer hide your wish that the airplane disappear, and you no longer think of the millions of people for whom the airplane is the only means of transport to get to the metropolises from distant territories. while you are stunning europeans with your off-the-shelf projects and coercive regulations, the european commission is acting underhand by signing free trade agreements at all costs. instead of recognising that this economic model is dangerous for the environment, you prefer to blame the middle-class european who flies from paris to budapest once a year, and again. this is another stupid thing.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, i am speaking necessarily in a short time on a matter of the least importance: the femyso association, although close to the muslim brotherhood, which advocates the supremacy of the sharia over all the laws of all our democracies, has received hundreds of thousands of euros in subsidies from the european commission since 2007. she has designed communication campaigns with veiled women with the council of europe, everyone remembers, which also caused the withdrawal of this communication campaign. this association is speaking here and will be giving talks very soon. there's one scheduled for very soon. it supports islamist movements which have been dissolved in france. even some of macron's ministers consider this association to be a false nose of radical islam. i think it is high time we started a real debate on this subject, because it is not only a scandal to encourage such a movement, but above all we reject this future for europe. we want to discuss it here.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is good to start this parliamentary term with the european forestry strategy. as you know, the summer was marked by numerous fires which destroyed thousands of hectares, reminding us of the extreme fragility of our ecosystems. the ecological crisis is here and it is our duty to mitigate its effects on fauna, flora and the most vulnerable. for our forestry strategy, this means better coordination of national policies to adapt to climate change. this requires a strengthening of our public services, both those that manage our forests on a daily basis and those that fight the fires that are increasing in europe. this also means breaking with a purely commercial view of forests. the exploitation of forests, whether for construction or energy production, needs to be better regulated. we must protect biodiversity and workers in the sector, especially those who are exposed to occupational accidents and diseases. so while there are some good elements in this report, it is essential to make it more ambitious.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, forests play a central role in our fight against global warming. capital is also attracted by the profit that can be made by planting trees with the aim of selling the corresponding carbon credits. the forest is not only an economic area, but also a place of life and biodiversity. we don't just think of trees as carbon traps. the 800,000 hectares of forest that burned this summer were mostly resinous plantations. and in those fumes, millions of tons of carbon are released back into the atmosphere. the carbon agriculture that the european commission is currently working on could become a danger to the maintenance of peasant agriculture and to our food sovereignty. let us be careful, therefore, that the forests and land in our regions are not the object of short-sighted speculation based on the impasse of compensation alone. the european union must prevent all greenwashing attempts by companies that do not make the necessary efforts to reduce their own greenhouse gas emissions.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have lived in the unconscious for too long. we refuse to see that the frantic pursuit of infinite growth in a finite world is folly. and the wake-up is brutal. the awakening is sudden, as the world's forests, which absorb carbon and house 80 percent of biodiversity, are disappearing. that's the equivalent of 800 football fields being sacrificed every hour. this madness, which threatens entire populations and undermines the very conditions of life on earth, is being done in our name for our so-called development. but what is the name of a development that sows chaos and destruction? the european union alone accounts for 16% of global deforestation. i'm talking about forests, but i also want to talk about human beings. i want to talk to you about chief raoni, who has been trying to protect the forests for years. i want to mention, among many others, ari uru-eu-wau-wau, who lost his life because he was documenting illegal deforestation on his territory. today, earth defenders are the first targets of corporations, mafias and sometimes even rogue governments who prefer profits to life. to not act is to be complicit. the international criminal court has been seized of cases concerning deforestation in cambodia. fortunately, times are changing. today we are deciding to ban companies from marketing products from deforestation. it's an essential first step, but i want to say to the right here that refusing to force our banks to stop funding deforestation is turning a blind eye to the power of money to destroy the world. let us not be too hasty: the text we adopt today does not cover everything. because we have given in to the agribusiness lobbies, we have decided not to save the brazilian cerrado biome, nor colombia from the ravages of avocado exploitation. by giving in to the fossil fuel lobbies, we are refusing to act for the congolese peatlands threatened by gas and oil. it's a long road, we're only halfway there. this first step must be followed by others if we are to live in harmony with the forests and the living.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, for too long, third countries have been engaging in unfair competition by flooding our countries with cheap products, which are, it must be said, produced by slaves and which have disastrous environmental standards. as a result, our industry is suffering, our know-how is being exported and overconsumption is hitting our continent hard, while you, the real gravediggers of our planet, happily sign free trade agreements. you waited for the scandal of so-called imported deforestation to finally act. but for every environmental disaster caused by globalization, your response is the same: more and more globalization, and this text proves it once again. on the other hand, by giving full powers to ngos, you are encroaching on nations, their competences and their sovereignty. this text will only weaken the voice of a europe that has come to the end of its course and will considerably weaken the member states. we must oppose genuine protection measures to the unelected ngos, the trojan horses of the lobbies that roam the corridors of this parliament. stop your hypocrisy and the free trade agreements that go with it. protecting forests is synonymous with protectionism and sovereignty, if you don't mind.
mr president, commissioner, we do not often have the opportunity to speak about regional fisheries organisations in this house. and so, today, of course, we are going to talk about how the decisions taken by these organisations are implemented in european union law. but i would also like to emphasise that we are involved in the making of these decisions. and in doing so, the european union has a say in what happens in almost every sea basin in the world. so our vision of sustainability and conservation can be used, applied, everywhere. the cor would like to see the commission's proposals for a new regulation on the conservation of fish stocks in the north sea, which is a very important part of the fisheries agreement. i would like to reiterate my support for the creation of an arctic rfmo to implement conservation measures in a sustainable manner following the moratorium on fishing. but i would also say that the fight against illegal fishing requires more than these rfmos; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the marine environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission intends to increase the wind power capacity of the 27 member states from 190 gigawatts to 480 by 2030. the life of a wind turbine is estimated at 20 years maximum and it is not known how to recycle it. the foundation of a wind turbine is 1 500 tonnes of concrete which is condemned to remain permanently in the ground. in the absence of wind, they must be connected to gas-fired plants producing 500 grams of co2 per kilowatt hour or, worse, to coal-fired plants producing 1,000 grams, together with fine particles of uranium and mercury. the price of a megawatt hour just went from 108 euros to almost 1,000 in one year. the industry benefits only its promoters, who have collected tens of billions in france. the example of the german electricity mix based on wind turbines is a failure. it emits 400 grams of co2 per kilowatt hour, seven times more than the french model, which is based mainly on decarbonised nuclear energy. wind turbines are undeniably an ecological, environmental and economic scam. does the commission intend to continue its support for this sector?
mr president, in two weeks’ time, the irish government will present its 2023 budget. much fanfare and kite flying as we await what measures the government will introduce to help workers and families meet the everyday challenges of the cost of living crisis. unfortunately, for many, the measures the government introduce will likely be too little and too late. it’s astonishing to me that whilst workers and families are subject to record increases in their electricity bills and trying to choose between heating their home or putting food on their table, the energy companies are making record profits. make no mistake, the cost of living crisis is now approaching a state of emergency. our most basic human needs are under threat, threatened by the selfish profiteering of energy companies and the perplexing inactions of government. that is why we in sinn féin believe the irish government must introduce a windfall tax on excess profits of big energy firms, redirect that money back into people’s pockets with direct supports and through long-term structural investments to eliminate energy poverty and accelerate the renewable transition.
mr president the european year of youth is well under way. last week the epp group organised a very lively youth week in brussels, but we are also on the move at home in transylvania. the weekend was the rmdsz hungarian youth conference training camp. i've talked to a lot of young people and met with a lot of youth organizations in the last few weeks. the conclusion is that the european year of youth has not lived up to the expectations that had been placed on it, at least so far. the war in ukraine, the energy crisis, inflation, and economic hardship all eclipsed the spotlight that young people deserved. the solution: the european commission should extend and extend the thematic year to 2023. i hope that as many of my colleagues in the european parliament as possible will support this proposal and that the commission will also accept it.
mr president, commissioner, the romanians deserve to be in schengen. romania has for many years complied with all the criteria for accession to the schengen area, and successive assessments by the european commission, confirmed also in the context of the war in ukraine, show that our country ensures the protection of external borders to the highest standards. european leaders have no justification for not accepting romania into the schengen area this year. german social democrat chancellor olaf scholz has made it very clear that the romanians, through the efforts they have made, deserve europe's respect and entry into this area of free movement. it is a pity that some european centre-right governments have refused and continue to oppose the recognition of this right for romanian citizens. together with the social democratic party and pes activists romania we will fight to the end for this goal. we will ask for a new debate in the european parliament's plenary and soon we will submit tens of thousands of messages from romanians to the council itself for this wish. we cannot have a strong and united europe until romanians have the same rights as other european citizens.
mr president, there is a major energy crisis facing europe. and the citizens' fears are justified with winter coming. shortage of energy, high electricity prices, secondary effects, price increases, falling living standards. it is clear that the eu must reassure its citizens. it's good that we're able to replace the russian energy supply. from 30% dependence on russian gas, for example, we have managed to reduce that dependence to only 9% for this coming winter. but more needs to be done. i wonder what the european commission's plan will be tomorrow. it turns out that investing in renewable energy, in grid connectivity, in energy efficiency is the right direction. we need to accelerate these resources, these investments. it's certainly the right direction, but more needs to be done.
that concludes this item.
the meeting will continue tomorrow, tuesday 13 september 2022, at 9.00 a.m. with a debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the topic 'the impact of drought, fires and other extreme weather events: enhancing the eu's efforts to combat climate change'. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
a short announcement: the imco committee has tabled a corrective text which has been adopted by parliament in accordance with rule 241 (4). this amendment shall be deemed to have been adopted unless, within 24 hours of its notification, a political group or members representing at least the lower threshold request that it be put to the vote. the corrective is available on the plenary session website. the title of this report will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the consequences of drought, fires and other extreme weather events: stepping up the eu's efforts to combat climate change (2022/2829 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, mr vice—president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for inviting me to this topical debate. as we are all well aware, extreme weather events are becoming more frequent and intense. they have severe impacts on nature and humankind globally and expose millions of people to acute food insecurity and reduced water security. the changes that we are already seeing, are unprecedented in recent history and will affect every region of the planet. after the flooding and wildfires that led to devastation and loss across europe in 2021, we have all witnessed this summer how large parts of the continent have been ravaged by heatwaves, wildfires and droughts, threatening the lives and livelihoods of many people and communities, putting pressure on national economies and endangering the environment and biodiversity. last monday, european ministers and directors-general responsible for emergency management, informally met to discuss how to deal with the increasing number and scale of wildfires with the assistance of the union civil protection mechanism. more resources will have to be dedicated to ensure the safety of both the people and the environment. once again, we are reminded that climate change is already happening, that its impacts vary and are unpredictable, and that we must step up our efforts to reach the objectives of the paris agreement. in parallel to the climate crisis, the eu also needs to deal with serious energy and looming economic crises resulting from the russian aggression against ukraine. even if the current unprecedented situation may require exceptional measures in the short-term, this should not derail us from the decarbonisation pathway that we have already embarked on. we should maintain the course set by the european green deal, which offers simultaneously an opportunity to increase our energy security by ending our dependence on fossil fuels imported from unreliable producers like the russian federation. last year, the eu adopted the european climate law, a landmark piece of legislation, which ensures the legally binding nature of both the eu’s 2030 climate target to cut greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% compared to 1990 and its climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. this year we have been focusing on the implementation of the eu’s increased 2030 target. inter-institutional negotiations on many proposals of the fit for 55 package are under way thanks to the intensive efforts of both co-legislators to adopt their respective mandates before the summer break. the presidency will do its utmost to make swift progress on these measures. we are all aware that the impacts of climate change, as well as the effects of the measures to address them, vary in different countries and regions. we must take into account those specificities and we must strike the right balance between mitigation and adaptation measures, which go hand in hand. the eu adaptation strategy also reminds us how safeguarding biodiversity and ecosystems is fundamental to climate resilient development. additionally, let us not forget the efforts that the eu is undertaking in the global fight against climate change and where it must keep playing a leading role. the eu is actively preparing for the climate conference cop 27 in sharm el—sheikh this november, which will dedicate a substantial part of its agenda to adaptation-related issues and adaptation finance. the glasgow climate pact calls on parties to collectively at least double the provision of climate finance for adaptation to developing countries from 2019 levels by 2025. in that regard, the eu looks forward to working alongside other parties to reach this objective. the cop 27 will also provide a timely opportunity to recall the need for the implementation of existing initiatives, pledges and nationally determined contributions to deliver the objectives of the paris agreement. as already mentioned, the eu is ensuring that its contribution will be implemented through the fit for 55 package. we have set ourselves ambitious eu-wide targets and committed to contributing to efforts to combat climate change globally. to live up to those commitments and continue to lead by example, we, as co-legislators, must continue the constructive work that we have begun together on the fit for 55 package with a view to reaching agreement as soon as possible. thank you very much for your attention. i look forward to listening to the debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, minister, the climate crisis is here. with scorching heat, devastating droughts, historic levels of forest fires or deadly floods across the globe. it left one third of pakistan underwater while uncovering riverbeds of the loire, rhine or elbe. remote possibility turned into a harsh reality, yet again, in europe. water scarcity has crippled the energy generation from hydropower. temperatures hit hard the cooling for nuclear plants and pushed up energy demand for cooling and energy prices, constituting a burden for consumers and industry and dampening economic recovery. droughts are affecting crop yields and adding to the overall public concern of unfolding food-price increase. heat is exhausting the population, impacting our well-being, certain jobs and outdoor activities already affected by the pandemic. for the younger generation, this may be the coldest summer they experience. the most recent assessment of climate science by the intergovernmental panel on climate change, published in 2021 and 2022, confirms that most of the changes now observed in the climate system are related to the increase of greenhouse-gas emissions over the past decades related to human activities. the scientists are warning that the intensity and frequency of extreme-climate events is set to increase as the climate warms. many people rightfully ask: are we equipped to deal with situations of such a gravity? this strategic framework is there. the climate law commits the eu and its member states to a duty to adapt with regular reporting, assessment of collective progress and consistency of efforts, with the objective of climate resilience. in 2021, in the eu adopt adaptation strategy, we have identified areas where progress at eu level on climate resilience is necessary if we are to get ahead of impacts before they do damage. no doubt the gravity of the climate crisis demands transformational change across all sectors, systems and parts of the society. we have taken a whole-of-government approach looking at macroeconomics, competition or health angles to properly address this broad challenge. in principle, when we prepare european legislation, we are under the obligation to assess whether this impacts negatively on our adaptive capacity or increases our vulnerability to climate change. all eu funded infrastructure should be climate proof. project promoters and responsible authorities should make sure that the future climate scenarios are used, vulnerabilities identified, and potential material impacts avoided or minimised. understanding fully what the future risks are, is essential. that is why our in-house science and knowledge service, the joint research centre, has made it a priority to provide new science evidence and tools for anticipating and managing the crises of the future. we launched the work with the european environment agency towards an eu-wide forward-looking risk assessment that should allow us, based on the best science, to identify key risks, key hotspots in europe and table inconvenient yet pressing issues about the fate of certain sectors, relevance of certain policy objectives and necessary interventions. furthermore, we will launch a dialogue with the insurance, financial sector, real estate or cities, to identify and examine the main reasons behind the widening climate-protection gap and ways to address them. there are significant european funds already available for financing adaptation to climate change from the common agricultural policy through cohesion policy, recovery funds to life or horizon europe. it is teamwork. we all must work together – european, national, regional and local authorities, researchers, businesses, representatives of civil society and citizens. the eu mission for adaptation to climate change, launched in september 2021, is putting the eu adaptation strategy in practice on the ground by helping europe’s regions become more resilient to the impacts of climate change. a call for testing and demonstrating transformative solutions of climate resilience worth eur 88 million is out and will be closed by the end of september. adaptation to climate change requires local action to better understand the existing and future climate risks; to develop climate-adaptation pathways to be better prepared and cope with the changing climate; to test and deploy on the ground the needed solutions to build resilience. this is what the mission should offer to 150 regions in the coming years, up to 2030. the other horizon missions on climate-neutral cities, soils and oceans will also include activities in support of building climate resilience across europe. lack of capacity is an essential element of vulnerability. we need to work with member states, regions and local authorities to build up their capacity, understanding, anticipation and the governance for climate adaptation that is commensurate with amplifying faster climate impacts. sustainable and climate-resilient management of our water resources will make the eu more resilient to droughts and increasing water stress. droughts can be managed on an ad hoc basis or by preparing and following strategies or plans. the european commission recommends establishing specific drought-management plans where relevant, complementing river- basin-management plans required by the water framework directive. with integrated water management, water reuse can play a significant role in addressing droughts and water scarcity. the regulation on water reuse for agricultural irrigation offers a legal framework for this alternative water-supply option, and the commission will further explore possible water-reuse uptake beyond agricultural irrigation. and let me stress in particular also the crucial role of healthy soils in the water cycle, which makes them an indispensable ally for climate adaptation. the restoration of the sponge-like function of soils can boost the supply of clean fresh water and reduce the risk of flooding and drought. this is why we proposed a nature restoration law in june this year, and we are developing, following up on a strong request from the european parliament, a new soil health law to be proposed in spring next year. a wide number of soil-protection measures are available that help retain water and reduce water needs, and avoid and increase resilience of droughts. therefore, applying specific sustainable-management practices that retain moisture, planting bushes and trees that generate shade and cultivating plants and crops, species and variants adapted to dry climatic conditions can reverse the trend towards desertification and restore soils that are already affected. in 2023, we will also present a proposal for a forest-monitoring law to provide member states with satellite imaging and other state-of-the-art information services, helping them to minimise and optimise forest-management practices. copernicus, the eu satellite earth observation programme, represents a key asset in this regard, and this will keep forests resilient, enabling them to perform multiple ecosystem services while meeting market demands. in addition, prevention is crucial to reduce the risks and the impacts of forest fires. this summer, we have witnessed an alarming acceleration and spread of wildfires across europe. and although the season is not over yet, it already broke all the records. the number of large fires and the hectares of land that were burned amount to approximately 800 000. this is about three times the size of luxembourg or one quarter of belgium. european solidarity remains unbroken, thanks also to the strategic decision-making of previous years to pool capacities at european level and share them across the board. however, we must do more at european level; we need to find ways to ease the national burden more quickly. solidarity across europe, when everyone is affected at the same time, cannot be taken for granted. since june, 23 deployments of firefighting planes and eight of helicopters have taken place in response to ten requests for assistance under the union civil protection mechanism. to be better prepared for next year, the commissioner for crisis management, janez lenarčič, and the czech presidency called for an informal ministerial meeting on monday 5 september. the commission tabled a proposal to urgently expand the existing rescue transitional aerial fleet, which is every summer fully operational to support member states when faced with simultaneous large forest fires, and accelerate the procurement of the permanent rescue fleet of aerial firefighting capacities. the commission and member states have invested much time and energy in negotiations for the production launch of new canadair planes, which, however, will become available only between 2026 and 2030. to bridge the gap until the eu rescue fleet is available, faster procurement of firefighting helicopters for the next fire seasons and doubling the rescue transmission fleet with light amphibious aircraft and helicopters was discussed with member states. now it’s important that we mobilise the necessary budgetary resources so that the eu can help to better protect the lives of our citizens, their properties and livelihood.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are well past one of the hottest and driest summers our continent has ever known. the consequences for agriculture will be felt. the harvest of autumn fruit, especially maize, will be historically low in europe. we must learn from this. we need to invest in irrigation technology, in reservoirs. we also need better water management, including transboundary water management. we need sustainable, efficient use of water and also new technologies such as the use of treated waste water for irrigation. but we also need modern breeding methods, because with them we have the chance to grow crops that are better suited to the drought, and we finally need the legal basis for this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the insurance offers are available, but unfortunately they are not used enough throughout europe. but above all, we should learn from the situation this summer. a war with our neighbours and a dry year are putting our food security in europe in serious danger. food prices are currently the main drivers of inflation. we must therefore do everything we can to ensure that food safety is guaranteed in the european union and to refrain from anything that puts it at risk. we are not doing the consumer any good by introducing new legislation which makes it more difficult to produce food in europe and we are outsourcing our production. that's why this summer must be a wake-up call. food safety is not an automatic process in europe, but it is an existential one. and we have to take care of it and not put it at risk.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the drought we are experiencing in europe is the worst in 500 years. it has a serious impact on life, on the economy, on people, on nature. so we need to dramatically accelerate our efforts to combat the climate crisis that this drought has caused - yes, it's man-made - to cause. our commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030 is not an empty promise, it is a guarantee of life in this european union. we owe it to the citizens. i would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the firefighters and firefighters all over europe who are defending the lives of the people who are saving our nature. you're doing a great job. but it is also important to emphasize that we cannot accelerate drought by emitting more and more co2. the forests that have been burned by this crisis, by this drought, are lost forever. this is a disaster. but we must not use european legislation to ensure that we burn more wood to produce energy. that has to change. ladies and gentlemen, we must speed up our fight against drought. we will.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr commissioner, at the last plenary session in strasbourg we were here, after the first fire in my country, in the sierra de la culebra in castile and león, with more than 24 000 hectares burned and where the fire-fighting operations were not fully operational, because if they had been, they would have clearly mitigated the economic, social and environmental impacts. we were discussing this here and i asked you to convene a council of environment ministers. after 830 000 hectares burned in europe, we are back here, at the first plenary session in strasbourg. we can't wait until next summer. that is why it must undoubtedly convene a summit of environment ministers to strengthen the european union's competence in firefighting. we have to improve our firefighting skills. i ask you to consider the creation of a permanent european union civilian firefighting force throughout the year and to require the member states to maintain permanent and professional firefighting operations throughout the year. i also ask you to address a restoration plan for europe's burned areas, so that europe will be more resilient next summer. please, let's work on the fires this winter so we don't have to put them out in the summer.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i asked for this debate on drought last july, at our last plenary session, i did not foresee the catastrophic summer we were going to have. europe, and the world, is now experiencing the full extent of the concrete manifestations of climate change. historic droughts, nuclear power stations shut down for lack of water to cool them, disastrous fires - again this morning in france in the médoc - and deadly floods in pakistan remind us that we can no longer delay the time to take real action. so we have a date with history. we must finally tackle the causes of the problem and no longer be satisfied with leaks forward which only respond to the consequences. the technical, scientific solutions, such as gmos or surface water storage, illustrate the illusions offered by these impasses. restoring nature, respecting its resources and enhancing resilience have the merit of really tackling the causes of the mechanisms of climate change head-on. the creation of river meanders, wetlands, soil restoration, floodplains and tree planting are concrete examples of effective solutions, which are truly starting a virtuous circle, including with regard to the central issue of food sovereignty, and are therefore responses that can give us hope for the future for future generations. it is also the way to regain a balanced management of this vital resource, this common resource of water, and finally to get out of this desert of divisions quickly. my dear colleagues, let us work together to bring the public policies at our disposal closer together towards this noble ambition. for our children, let us have this audacity and courage together!
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the fires that have ravaged europe this summer have left their mark on people's consciences. the conclusion drawn by our ideologues is that we must fight against global warming. that's a terrible, ultimately too vague term. terrible, because it relieves all the actors of their responsibility. because yes, there is political responsibility. yes, we need to keep a fleet of canadair operational and invest in our infrastructure. in france, at the height of the fires, we had seven of 12 canadair in operation, just over half. what a shame! yes, we must get out of ideology and put all the firemen suspended for non-vaccination back on duty. in france, we are stupidly cut off from 5,000 firefighters. yes, trees, bushes and groves must be cleared and cut down in order to dry out the burning areas and to make way for firefighters. or the opposite of the disaster planned for the book thief. but above all, let's stop this deception. global warming is only when it suits your agenda. what have you really done to make our lands sheltered, wooded, shaded and temperate, but also healthy? maintaining green spaces in urban areas can lower the local temperature by 2 to 3 degrees in a day. and healthy soil absorbs heat and slows flooding by natural soil absorption. global warming does not explain everything. your negligence, a little more. you prefer to reopen coal-fired power stations because you have not been able to maintain nuclear power and you believe in energy that is only carbon-free in name. for wind farms or solar panels, most of which are chinese, you destroy forests which, however, ensure the decrease in temperatures and the maintenance of biodiversity. let us therefore break with the logic of the european union, which leads to metropolisation, consolidation, excessive trade and the degradation of our soils, which takes advantage of the slightest disaster to advance an unrealistic ecological ideological agenda to the detriment of the environment itself!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing the worst drought in 500 years. the fires have devastated more than 800 000 hectares in our union, a figure that has not been recorded since records began. these are no longer phenomena confined to the southern regions. climate change is a major problem that affects us all. in france, in this sadly record year, seven out of every ten fires are due to human negligence. we must therefore strengthen prevention of fires and drought through awareness campaigns. i propose that the international day for the prevention of natural disasters be made more visible and legible at european level. no citizen should ignore the risks and the right responses to natural disasters, taking as an example what exists in japan and overseas. we must of course have a suitable forestry policy, but above all we must improve the human and material resources of civil protection. finally, i would like to express my sincere thanks to all the women and men who fight fires every year, putting their lives in danger, and i would like to call on all the member states, as well as the commission, to improve national and common resources to combat natural disasters.
mr president, this summer france was hit by devastating fires which paralysed the local economy in the middle of the tourist season. before they cause global warming, these fires are caused by the policies that your camp has been advocating for years, the ones that prohibit preventive burning and strategic cuts, for example. what happened in france is a replica of the fires in australia two years ago. and yet the european left has not learned the lesson: the climate emergency has become an easy pretext to get away with this kind of thing. it has also become a justification for your repeated political coups, subjecting the nations of europe to your insatiable desire for ever greater efforts. but who will make the effort? it is still the european middle class that has become proletarian, the industries that are barely surviving in this difficult investment climate and the inhabitants of remote territories, forgotten by your policies centred on the metropolises. extreme weather events are clearly influenced by global warming, but no policy will eliminate them, especially in a europe that is extremely low-polluting compared to the chinese, indian or american giants. your policy is to ask the european worker, already strangled by the health and energy crisis, to finance the efforts of the entire planet on his own. how long will it take for this parliament to trust the professionals and their know-how rather than regulating their practices in a sectarian way? those who have a share of responsibility for the events of this summer should not ask us to make any more efforts.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, shortly after midnight last night, azerbaijan launched a large-scale military attack against armenia. intense shelling targeted several towns and villages on armenian territory. military sites, of course, but also places inhabited by civilian populations. at this point, the death toll is at least 49 soldiers and three civilians. nothing, nothing can justify this attack. two years ago, in violation of all rules of international law, azerbaijan, supported by turkey, attacked nagorno-karabakh. this time, he's attacking the territory of the republic of armenia itself. we have supported, ladies and gentlemen, without hesitation, the ukrainian people when they were attacked by russia. we must also denounce in the same clear voice the criminal aggression launched last night by the aliyev regime. madam president, we ask you to speak for our parliament in this emergency. our determined stance can prevent this war and can stop azerbaijan in its project. let us stop treating this criminal state as a legitimate partner and financing its threats by buying gas from it. let us take immediate steps to prepare effective sanctions. let us demand an immediate meeting of the united nations security council. we owe it to the security of our continent, which will be directly endangered by this new conflict. but above all, we owe it to the armenian people, with whom we share these hours of grief and anguish wholeheartedly.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, here we are: in just under a year, we have succeeded in laying the legislative foundations for a more than just incentive. the gap has almost been filled which will allow the pressure to finally lay the foundations for a wage shield within the european union. and it is something very concrete. in fact, what this directive is trying to change is what is at the bottom of the payroll of european workers: 25 million of them will see their wages rise by 20%. we shall succeed, through this text, in reducing working poverty by almost 10%. this is a real step forward for an institution which has not been recognised for its social efficiency. well, here we are. this is the moment of truth. it is up to our good old nation states to act. they have two years, commissioner, to transpose this directive and make it practical, but they can do it now, as quickly as possible. in the context of the energy and food crisis, our good old nation states can act to provide this protection for our fellow citizens. in any case, we have done our job here and we are succeeding in advancing social europe. this is great news for europeans, but also for a certain way of thinking that we europeans have.
mr president let us be clear: we cannot continue to talk about a single minimum wage in the european union. as the commissioner said earlier, there are too many economic differences between member states. instead, states should be guaranteed an adequate and fair minimum wage. this directive does not bring about any substantive change in hungary. this is because the hungarian legislation currently meets the requirements of the directive. in my country, the definition of conformity takes into account national, social and economic conditions. the facts are clear: hungary's minimum wage has more than doubled in the past decade, and the 20 percent increase last year was the highest in europe. hungary's increase in the minimum wage is also a model in europe.
mr president, and mr commissioner, and mr nicolas, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate my two colleagues, agnes jongerius and dennis radtke, for this enormous work. it is a team effort and, for us, a great victory for the french presidency of the european union. we had committed ourselves, with my delegation, to europe together, and we have kept that promise. when i think of the challenges of social europe, of fighting inequalities, of improving social convergence, but also of improving the attractiveness of certain professions, i think of a rocket and i think that we have built the first stage of this rocket.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs very much for the difficult, not easy, work they have done in these months of negotiations. we are at a crucial historical moment, as we have said many times in this house. the european union must show great leadership, great leadership capacity within itself and also outside of itself. and we are here in this house, in the committees, discussing the reform of the renewable energy directives at what is probably the most complex moment of the energy crisis, caused precisely by russia's illegal and brutal invasion of ukraine. the work we have tried to do in the agri committee is to take a pragmatic and reasoned approach to the need to diversify, of course, our energy sources but, at the same time, to ensure food security and a healthy management of our land. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much, once again, for finding a fair compromise between the increasingly urgent need to increase the share of renewable energy in order to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, whose source we know well, without endangering our agriculture and forestry.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more renewable energy throughout europe - that is simply what we want. solar, photovoltaic or thermal energy, wind, marine or hydroelectric energy, biomass as long as it is used to preserve our forests, but also new innovative technologies such as osmotic energy. we need all these renewable energy sources and that is why my group, renew europe, and i wanted to raise our targets. in particular, we want to increase the share of renewables in the european energy mix to 45% by 2030 - we are currently at 22%. why would you do that? because the more we deploy these renewables, the less dependent we will be on russian fossil fuels and the closer we will be to our european climate goals. it's been a lot of work, but here's the result. finally, i would like to stress the crucial importance of continuing to focus on innovation, but also on guaranteeing the origin of renewable energy while offering affordable prices to consumers and industries. this text will be the guarantee of that.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i think, colleagues, that in the present situation we should not change the current objectives of the tenders. in fact, i think we need a moratorium of two to five years on the european commission's ambitious climate and energy policy. not because i'm against climate change, not because i don't want our energy sector to be transformed. but we are facing a very unique situation where the paradigms that we have been building on as the european union and as individual member states are not working. some have been disappointed by the confidence in the safe supply of energy from russia. we've all been let down by the electricity market model, which we have to change after a few years of its establishment. i remember all those nights i spent working on it. we're about to go against the rules of the free market by setting up, almost like a cartel, a cap on gas prices. therefore, raising the target for renewable energy is simply surreal in the current situation. i think the europeans will give you a fair assessment. i would like to make a few comments on the question of forest biomass and forest conservation. indeed, the development of biomass must be accompanied by appropriate environmental protection measures, and it is here that i strongly support the european commission's project in this direction.
mr president, commissioner vălean, dear colleagues, i would like to thank the european commission for the initiative and mr pieper and his team of rapporteurs for their work. we’ll be voting tomorrow on an essential part of the future of our energy sector and i know that the majority of this house will back the outcome we reached in the itre committee, a very balanced one. we can all agree that the renewable energy directive sets the necessary goals to have a sustainable aim for a secure future as a response to the current crisis, ensure the security of supply, but also reach the green deal targets. the cornerstones of the amended red directive provide important impetus for the acceptance of renewable energies in europe, for the renewable energy sources, as well as for the expansion of its infrastructure and ultimately boost investments. the new renewable target of 45% that we will be voting on tomorrow is ambitious but also necessary in the current context.
mr president, dear commissioner, the vote on the renewable energy directive (red) revision is a crucial enabler of sustainable bioenergy and clean hydrogen energy. without them, our industrial decarbonisation and the objective to reach a 45% share of renewable energy from the sources in the energy mix in 2030 becomes unfeasible. we must create a predictable and legislative environment that sets ambitions high for sustainable energy production without hindering the deployment of all non-fossil technologies needed for the green transition. a transition of the renewable energy sources and away from imported fossil fuels is also a smart security policy, as we have seen in the first half of this year. to this end, we must ensure that the red criteria meet both our sustainable objectives and energy needs and distance ourselves from the black and white debate, especially when it comes to the role of primary wood biomasses. so, i therefore support this broad itre report to boost our renewables.
mr. chairman, please. climate change is rampant, and putin's attack on ukraine shows us that we can no longer, and should no longer, be dependent on putin's gas. that is why the development of renewable energy is so important. it has now become security policy too. and renewable energy production, yes, it is local, and it can therefore be made independent of putin's gas, but we have to do it faster than we are doing it today. it is good that the directive has even higher ambitions, because there is enormous potential in europe. in the field of offshore wind, europe is the world leader. we wish we could keep calling ourselves that, but that means not letting the chinese outcompete us in this important industry, and that means all of this requires faster permits for renewable energy development - this applies to water, and this applies to a large extent to land - because in this way we can become independent of putin's gas and at the same time combat climate change. it can only go too slowly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we kind of argued about the wood for a long time, and we came to a compromise that said, in the end, not every wood burning is equally climate neutral, but that we need to see that we need to look at primary wood biomass in a more critical way, that we need to have the cascade principle. that compromise has now been reversed. i am not happy about this, colleagues. we must be more careful with the burning of wood. the burning of wood has doubled in recent years. and, mr pieper, whole logs are also burned in power stations, which is not climate neutral. we must put the protection of the forests first. we can't make the same mistake we made with agrofuels, thinking that vegetable oils could be the new mobility. we have the same problem now with the use of wood. we must be careful with the forests. we've lost 600,000 acres of forest this year to wildfires. we can't burn an extra square foot of wood now. we can't do that, because we'll never reach our biodiversity goals.
mr president, commissioner vălean, today we take another step towards europe’s energy independence from fossil fuels. today, we give another lesson to all third parties, starting with putin, who consider that europe is being blackmailed. and today we confirm that all together managed to bring affordability as a key element that guide all our efforts to increase the renewable energy sources share up to 45% by 2030. this stands a great opportunity for my home country, greece, to accelerate even further the efforts for deployment of res, combining this effort with the appropriate infrastructures and development of the grid. we managed to give more flexibility to the member states on forest biomass. and in this point i would like to stress to the people in greece and especially in the north, in xanthi, rodopi and evros, not to be concerned about activities related to deforestation and forest products. there is an urgency to act fast and in unity tackling the energy crisis with all available means, and tomorrow’s vote – i insist that this piece of legislation... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are in an energy crisis. but we cannot solve this energy crisis with nuclear power. we're not going to get out of this energy crisis with an infinite amount of lng. we're going to get out of this energy crisis with renewable energy. this is the future. but renewable is not necessarily renewable. the burning of our forests is a very big problem, and it is done under the label of renewable energy. we are destroying biotopes, we are destroying green lungs, we are destroying carbon sinks. i would therefore have been happy if the envi request on this subject had actually been accepted. unfortunately, there was no majority for that. why is it so important to do without wood? if we want to get just 2% of the world's energy from wood, we'd have to double the amount of wood we cut. that would actually make the forests disappear in a heartbeat. we've now found a compromise i can carry with me. it caps the crediting of wood biomass, we stop mining. this is a first step, not a last step, but a very important one.
mr president, the organization of the european energy system and the end of dependence on russian supplies requires a radical acceleration of efforts and a fundamental change in energy supply, production and consumption structures. the european union needs to formulate a comprehensive strategy on how to manage energy security and independence, while keeping in mind the objective of climate neutrality by providing diverse energy sources, promoting research and digital innovation without fossil fuels, which is an indispensable part of the energy sector value chain. the renewable energy directive is an instrument for energy independence and will help to strengthen the capacity and efficiency of public authorities in preparing to establish long-term policies and a clear regulatory framework to improve the business environment and stimulate investment in the field of renewable energy deployment, to achieve administrative burden reduction, to build renewables and to deploy technologies in small and medium-sized enterprises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, floods are ravaging pakistan, while on our soil forests are burning. for 50 years now, however, we have been reluctant to embark on renewable energy because of a lack of political will. so yes, the 45% target we are voting for today is a step forward. but it took putin's war to set that goal. if we want to meet the paris agreement, we should aim not for 45% but for 56%, and for 100% by 2040. let's move on. what many of you are proposing today is to continue to burn forests for the climate. so on the one hand we are committed to preserving carbon sinks and biodiversity, and on the other hand we would continue to subsidize industrial plantations, clear-cutting and an activity that sometimes emits more co2 than coal. this is despite the fact that the timber industry could be redirected towards products with a long life. but scientists are adamant that financial incentives from governments to burn forest biomass are worsening the climate crisis. so let's be consistent and take action for renewable energy.
sailing transport is not a crazy idea, not to recognise it as renewable energy would be! sail propulsion is the oldest renewable energy used by man. long neglected, new technological innovations are putting this energy back at the centre of solutions to decarbonise shipping. it is time for european law to take the right course and to recognise sail propulsion as a renewable energy. that is why we at renew europe propose to integrate this technology into the renewable energy directive iii. the target ? encourage the companies that have embarked on this venture, encourage investors to trust them, show that this technology is not crazy, but european.
madam president, mr high representative, unprecedented military exercises around the island of taiwan; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the eu. we have two choices: to remain silent and de facto support the chinese dictatorship, or to affirm our solidarity with taiwanese democracy. it is obvious to us, europeans, the european union, that we must make the conscious and responsible choice to support the threatened democracy. for seven years we have been asking for the opening of negotiations for a bilateral investment agreement with taiwan. it is time to move forward, to give meaning to european strategic autonomy, and this means that we must decide for ourselves with whom and how we want to deepen our economic relations, with certain partners. we are aware of all the pressure exerted by china and we know that the chinese regime will strike us with sanctions in retaliation, as it did lithuania a short while ago. let us therefore be strong, united and determined to strengthen our commercial arsenal, particularly with the anti-coercion instrument.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for more than a year now, it has been russia that has been driving up energy prices. putin's the one who's cutting off the gas. and yet, no blackouts this summer, not in france or anywhere else in europe. what's the problem? well, thanks to our european energy market. so to the national assembly and its pro-putin allies, i say this unequivocally: russia is responsible for the energy crisis, not europe. the truth is that europe is protecting us and will continue to do so in the future, because we will be contributing to the energy giants who are making extraordinary profits in these troubled times: 4 billion for eni, 5 billion for total, 11 billion for shell. it's time they stood together. it's time that these super profits were reversed to the most vulnerable. so, the indecency would be to abandon everything, as some people on the extreme right or the extreme left of this house advocate, for the pleasure of their friend putin. but as far as we are concerned, we will remain on the side of the ukrainians and the europeans.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would of course like to welcome the proposal for a tax on superprofits which is on the table. it is a matter of basic justice since everyone must have the means to keep warm. but taxing these superprofits will not be enough. to be up to speed, we have to get out of the productivist logic because all history shows us that it is not because we produce more that we redistribute more. the truth is, it's time to sober up and share. we urgently need to embark on a profound transformation of our economic and industrial model. that's why, no, no pipeline should be built like the one at midcat. the reason why gas purchases, even grouped, relaunched and without obligation to exit in 2035, should not be undertaken. we can and must impose on industries using gas, while other technologies exist, to get out of it and fast. we must plan for the cessation of certain activities such as fossil fuels or nitrogen fertilisers which, i remind you, ladies and gentlemen, destroy life. because it is not just a question of taxing total or the fossil fuel giants, but of getting these mega polluters out of these destructive activities. it is not just a question of taking short-term measures to get through the winter, but of embarking on a structural climate revolution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy crisis is only beginning. it is a good war for you, if i may say so, to invoke the ukrainian conflict to justify the situation. but crises, as we know, reveal the flaws more than they create them. europe led by the eu is today paying the price for three mistakes. a mistake in energy choices, by collapsing the nuclear chain. when you make us dependent on the sun and the wind, you make us dependent on the russians. a geostrategic mistake: if sanctions against russia were certainly necessary, they had to be adapted to their effectiveness and thought through in their consequences. finally, a short-term mistake, because you accept to be hostages of speculation. more broadly, we pay for your ultra-liberal ideological conception that makes no distinction in value between commodities like water, essential food or energy. who believes that everything can be left to the invisible hand of the market? and then, if you had accepted the energy independence options that marine le pen has been proposing for the last 15 years, with nuclear and energy, we would not be here.
madam president, the subject of energy prices is, of course, a primary subject not only for all of us but also for the whole, for all european citizens. we must not forget that this theme is primarily caused by the criminal russian military invasion. and so the long-term solution, of course, is to not fund russian war crimes and cut off those energies. we need to diversify energy sources, diversify suppliers. as in the pandemic, we need common european solutions today. the long-term ones are, of course, in closer cooperation in building better energy infrastructure, cooperation in energy stocks and also joint purchasing. but today's situation is exceptional and we also need exceptional solutions, which are to apply the european regulatory framework as soon as possible. and we also need to talk about the role of gas in electricity price formation, and the discussion should also cover the price stagnation of energy and specifically gas. last but not least, it's important to talk about energy savings and also about the extraordinary revenues of energy companies and redistribute them to those who really need it. our citizens rightfully expect it.
madam president, commissioner, mr minister, the manipulation of energy supplies and prices is a powerful weapon which the russian federation has not refrained from using in its aggression against the freedom and sovereignty of peoples. a weapon that hits the economy and the living conditions of the people and generates discontent, fuelled by populism against the courageous response of european democracies. we need measures that have immediate effect but do not deviate from the current energy transition. portugal is one of the leading countries in incorporating renewables into its energy mix. it has taken the political will to rapidly build a new generation gas pipeline linking the deep-water port of sines to european markets, helping to diversify supplies and reduce dependencies. it disconnected the price of electricity from the price of gas, which allowed an average 15% reduction in the final spot price of electricity. it opened up access to the regulated electricity market for citizens and businesses and created the regulated gas market, committing the large energy companies to the collective effort, without ruling out taxation on windfall profits, if warranted. i gave the example of portugal because, as a portuguese, i know it best, but also because, as a european, i feel that it sets out a path which should inspire our joint and united journey. we need to act on energy production and access, but also make markets more resilient and transparent.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has taken the right direction, firstly on energy reserves, particularly gas, and of course on gas and electricity prices. we hope that the reasonableness of these proposals will reduce the selfishness of some countries which, in pursuing their national interests alone, are risking the harm of the whole community. but that 's not enough . the main negative effect of the energy crisis is called deindustrialization or at least risk. whole supply chains are deciding to off-site production. producing outside europe is convenient because energy costs are much lower. these pieces of industrial chain will be difficult to recover, if not in a very long time. that is why, alongside energy policy, we are calling for action on the ets market, which is an unbearable burden for the energy-intensive industry and therefore a decisive factor in generating potential further job losses. that is why we are proposing either the suspension or the revision of the ets, so that the price-setting element does not also harm those who create value in europe, that is to say our companies.
madam president, commissioner, mr minister, the winter is going to be long, the winter is going to be hard. europeans may have to choose between food and heat. we'll probably have to shut down some of the shields. we are facing a real social and, in short, a real democratic bomb. to help europeans in this crisis, we will have to find money. there's money, we know that. it's unevenly distributed, we also know that. there is a real problem of tax consent on this continent and elsewhere among the richest of us. we'll have to face him. first of all, we must tackle it by changing our tax rules, by moving beyond unanimity and going beyond article 122, even if we welcome this use. to tackle it by proposing a sustainable framework on taxation of superprofits and not limiting it to energy issues only. to deal with it by financing europe as proposed by the social democrats and also by the international monetary fund. finally, we must confront it by proposing an exceptional tax on wealth, as the financial times proposes today, and the social democrats have always proposed. because, as the pope would say, and i will not quote him every day, taxes should be set according to the ability of each individual to contribute. the response to this crisis must also be fiscal because there is no sovereignty, no independence without taxation.
president of the committee on budgets. president, minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs have both dealt with the various aspects. i therefore take the liberty of looking at things a little wider, but i do in any case share the disappointment that there is about the fact that the council has failed to address the great challenges that are facing us today and are already in our midst. policy making in times of crisis requires courage from everyone around the table. we are indeed facing at this moment, i think, two monumental crises: the energy crisis and the inflationary trend, which is very persistent. to start with the last one: it is an illusion to think that inflation will go away on its own. we need a strong policy, both monetary and budgetary. we must not lose sight of the fact that it makes little sense to take difficult monetary decisions to combat inflation while at the same time keeping the budgetary tap open. as for the energy crisis: we must dare to admit today that we have done a great deal of this ourselves. three elements: europe and certainly some of its major member states have for decades built an economic order on the availability of cheap russian gas; the development towards sustainable energy production, which is obviously necessary, is clearly underestimated in terms of its problems; given the two preceding elements, it would be logical to rely more on nuclear energy, something which is still stubbornly rejected by certain political groups. as regards the overall financial framework, the mff architecture is at its limits. the framework provides discipline, but it should not, of course, be a hindrance to effective action where necessary. for example, the commission's initiative to promote the joint purchase of defence equipment is if successful certainly something to be made available. i would also like to stress the importance of the quality of our expenditure, especially with the temporary increase in the budget through the recovery plan. the final beneficiaries of these funds should be better identified. the eu budget is an investment budget. the resources are limited, so we must of course focus on value-added and innovation. it is, moreover, and i conclude with this, too easy to think that spending resources is sufficient to solve a problem. good coordination and clear agreements between member states are at least as important.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for this interesting and fruitful exchange of views. today’s debate has shown that, even though we have different views on specific top points, our goal is a common one: to establish a robust eu budget for 2023. i will now arrive at the european parliament’s position on the budget for 2023 as the basis for developing the positions on which we will negotiate to reach a final agreement in november. we know that we can count on the commission to act as an honest broker, to bridge the gap between our positions and to propose balanced compromise solutions. the union as a whole requires a budget that meets the needs of its citizens in a post-pandemic scenario and in a dynamic geopolitical situation. this means finding the right balance between the necessary expenditure and the lowest possible burden for eu taxpayers. i am confident that, with the full dedication of the european parliament, the commission and ourselves, we will be able to reach an agreement in due time. thank you very much, once again, for your attention.
in writing. – concerning the topic of the 2023 budget, there are many question marks and concerns, but i would like to make three important points, which should be taken into consideration during the forthcoming interinstitutional negotiations. given the increasing number of finalised partnership agreements, the level of payments in the field of cohesion must be increased horizontally, in order to cater for the needs of the incoming national programmes. secondly, looking at the terrible drought that hit europe, our farmers need more help and support than ever before. we can be certain that the european union solidarity fund will receive a record number of claims so the least we can do is to fully mobilise the annual total amount of the fund. finally, our closest neighbours, the western balkan countries, have also faced serious difficulties: skyrocketing energy prices and terrible drought. to demonstrate our support, we should increase their ipa funds for 2023.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner várhelyi, i would first of all like to thank the alternative rapporteurs for their contributions and support to the ambition of this text which we had in common, and i am particularly proud that it was the extremes of the left and the right who did not join in with the main groups in this consensus which we have generated around this report: i am very grateful for that. we wanted effective proposals which would be a strong and clear political signal of the importance and urgency of the renewed model of cooperation with our southern neighbours, namely algeria, egypt, israel, jordan, lebanon, morocco, the palestinian territories, syria, tunisia and libya. europe is threatened, our enviable model of coexistence and social status is a threat to the autocratic regimes around us: with this report we are building and laying the foundations for a new model of strategic autonomy for the european union. we must, more than ever, present solutions, and not hinder by promoting hatred and division; we must look to the south, create a new relationship characterized by the treatment of you to you, renouncing all forms of paternalism, and creating and solidifying a new, our own, strategic autonomy: it is time to wake up and resume privileged relations with our southern neighbourhood. it is no coincidence that this report is being voted on this week, precisely when we are debating the state of the union and its priorities for the next 12 months. as a politician, i have for many years emphasised the strategic relevance of the southern neighbourhood and have worked to establish a permanent political dialogue with various political parties in these countries. today, the strategic importance of this neighbourhood is evident: the conclusions of the nato summit in madrid only a few months ago put it into words when they recognised the interference of strategic competitors in the area, namely russia and china, and the danger this poses to europe and, more broadly, to the democratic world. there are several key pillars on which we need to work, for example, diversifying our energy suppliers: as we are seeing, this is key to ensuring our autonomy, new suppliers with shorter and more reliable supply routes for our companies. let us be clear, we cannot depend on china or play into its control of the global economy: a globalised world requires global solutions and the opportunities we have together with our neighbours in the mediterranean basin are clear. another issue is migration: how can we tackle a problem like this without improving the living conditions in the countries of origin? no one leaves home for pleasure; they come looking for a better world here in europe. let us help to improve their living conditions in their countries of origin too; we shall all benefit in the end: the stability, economic development and prosperity of the southern neighbourhood is also ours. the threats posed by the pandemic and the russian invasion of ukraine have an impact on both sides of the mediterranean: we face an unprecedented energy crisis, and the countries of the southern neighbourhood, a food crisis. it is crucial that we discuss today coherent priorities and identification of additional synergies. this thursday marks the second anniversary of the abraham accords, and i also thank all the groups who have allowed us to refer to them in a positive way. there is a new geopolitical context that we cannot ignore and that is bringing new opportunities bilaterally in our cooperation and trilaterally in cooperation with our neighbours. i would like to emphasize the measures to train young people and women to combat disinformation and political interference, to promote food security and, above all, to prevent conflicts and, in this case, to control the protection of european borders and the fight against mafias and jihadist terrorism: we must be ruthless in these areas if we want to have a safe space between us.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear members of this house, dear rapporteur, in february 2021, when we have adopted the new agenda for the mediterranean and its economic and investment plan, we were in the middle of the covid-19 pandemic. since then, the world has changed. russia’s war against ukraine has consequences for the entire world, including the eu and its neighbouring countries. it has a strong negative impact in the middle east and on the north african region. the countries of the southern neighbourhood are already facing rising inflation and deteriorating socioeconomic conditions that may bring more instability and social unrest with possible consequences on additional illegal migratory flows to the eu, especially if the situation continues to aggravate. in the energy sector, the war is affecting global energy markets, tightening the energy prices, raising concerns over our security of supply as well. the other consequence is a regional and global food crisis. the war has led to tensions on the food supply and fertilisers markets as many among our partners are heavily dependent on ukraine’s and russia’s exports through the black sea. repowereu is our plan to phase out russian fossil energy imports through diversification and fostering international partnerships, including with the mediterranean region on lng, natural gas and ramping up the production of green energy sources and green hydrogen. europe needs long-term, predictable energy sources like egypt or israel. discussions on how to increase natural gas supply to the eu are ongoing at the highest level between the eu and egypt, israel, algeria and qatar. as an immediate response to the food security crisis, we have set up a regional food and resilience facility worth of eur 225 million to tackle the consequences of rising prices of food and commodities in the region. given these challenges and the new geopolitical context, the new agenda for the mediterranean and its economic and investment plan, based on mutually benefited priorities and defines priorities mutually, are important and relevant for the region – more than ever before. the covid-19 pandemic and now the war in ukraine have clearly demonstrated that the prosperity and stability of europe, north africa and the middle east region is closely interlinked. in these turbulent times it is also of paramount importance to have reliable and predictable partners in our immediate neighbourhood. partners with whom together we can seize the emerging new opportunities and unleash the region’s untapped potential. partners whom we can rely on in addressing our shared challenges. partners whom we can trust to be credible in fighting antisemitism, incitement to hatred, violence or terror. partners who are taking bold and decisive steps to address the foundations for peace, tolerance, coexistence and non-violence. undoubtedly it is the beginning of a new chapter in our relationship. overall, we are on a good track to build a positive agenda and deliver this new agenda for the mediterranean and its economic and investment plan. we need to keep investing in the real economy, creating growth and new jobs and the perspective for the youth to stay. as you know, our economic and investment plan could mobilise up to eur 7 billion and could trigger investments up to 30 billion. the plan is well underway and a number of projects are starting to be delivered. let me give you a couple of examples. we just signed a landmark trilateral energy agreement with egypt and israel, who are long term and reliable partners, to ensure energy security and diversification of supply for europe. we are heavily engaged in morocco with the king mohammed, the sixth strategic investment fund, to support co-investments for large scale projects, for instance, in sustainable agriculture or green transition. we have recently launched the helwan wastewater treatment plant project in egypt that would provide safe access to improved wastewater management and services in rural areas to the benefit of approximately two million people creating thousands of new jobs. in the area of digital connectivity, we are working together with the economic and investment bank on the development of a submarine cable system to interconnect eu countries with north african countries. the project will give access to critical asset infrastructure, which will enable relationships among science, technology and innovation stakeholders and empower citizens across the southern mediterranean. in terms of larger infrastructure projects, we’re working on waste programmes for jordan, as well as a desalination programme, in particular, the aqaba-amman water conveyor is of strategic importance. we have started to look actively into supporting the normalisation process between israel and some arab neighbours in sectors where opportunities for new partnerships exist or will arise. for instance, we are advancing well to cooperate with israel and morocco in the field of water management. europe should not only start understanding the new regional language since the abraham accords, but it should also learn to speak this language and seize the new opportunities for business people, trade and travel. when it comes to migration, our actions go hand-in-hand with projects under the economic and investment plan, addressing root causes of migration, strengthening border control and cracking down on organised crime and smugglers. we remain vigilant about the risk of instability and potential new waves of illegal migration by keeping our level of engagement, including an annual financial assistance of at least eur 200 million. to this end, we are delivering life saving equipment for border management and search and rescue across the whole region in full compliance with international human rights standards. finally, the commission is, of course, continuing to promote gender equality, the fight against gender-based violence and discrimination, as well as human rights and the rule of law when engaging with our neighbouring regions. in this regard, we are maintaining the important level of financing of these actions with our programmes. these are some examples of the progress that has been achieved in the last few months. of course, there is still very much to be done.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dear commissioner olivér várhelyi, allow me, first of all, to thank our colleague antonio lópez-istúriz white for his excellent report and also for his very concrete recommendations to the commission and the vice-president high representative: how to renew the partnership with our southern neighbourhood. as mr lópez-istúriz white’s report outlines, it is key to secure adequate resources for a timely and effective implementation of the new agenda for the mediterranean. it is key to strengthen the eu’s dialogue in cooperation with the countries of the southern neighbourhood, and it is key to address the impact of the russian aggression against ukraine on exactly these countries. a strengthened mediterranean partnership remains a strategic imperative for the european union, simply because the challenges the region continues to face require a common response. and i would like to thank commissioner várhelyi for presenting a number of very concrete actions we are taking as a european union. only by acting together in a spirit of partnership can we turn common challenges and opportunities in our mutual interest.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the constructive approach to this report. as we know, there have always been strong cultural and economic links between the different shores of this mediterranean sea, which is known as the sea that divides and the sea that unites. unfortunately, in recent years, the sea has become a killer, linked to migratory phenomena. in november 1995, the european union laid the foundations for multilateral cooperation with the mediterranean countries by adopting the barcelona declaration. the spirit on which the declaration was based is that of solidarity in the interests of peace, stability and development in this region. more than 25 years later, the idea of a strong partnership between the european union and its mediterranean neighbours remains more than ever a priority. ten years after the arab spring, the challenges are enormous in terms of democratic development, economic and human development, governance, security, respect for human rights, to which are added, of course, the challenges of climate change, migration and, now, the energy issue. it is in this context that the new partnership for the mediterranean with morocco, algeria, tunisia, libya, egypt, lebanon, israel, palestine, jordan and syria is necessary for us, with undoubtedly special relations with each other. because these countries, while similar, are not exactly alike. in this report we are sending a strong message on some key issues and i will take five of them. first, the strengthening of dialogue and cooperation to promote peace, human rights, conflict prevention and security. second, strengthening strategies to fight poverty which involve the recognition of socio-economic challenges, climate change, access to resources for all. thirdly, the promotion of a migration policy based on respect for human rights, including the principle of non-refoulement, which is directed primarily at the root causes of these migration issues. fourthly, promoting environmental protection and supporting the people directly affected by these changes. finally, the confirmation of the union's readiness and willingness to support the middle east peace process based on the two-state solution, in compliance with un resolutions.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, we share more than a sea and a history with the countries of the southern mediterranean. we have a future to build together, because we have everything to gain from the successes of our neighbours and everything to fear from their failures. this is what the mediterranean agenda presented by the commission and the high representative last year meant. and that is also what the recommendation we propose you adopt says. but beyond the good intentions, there is a reality that we must be concerned about. the reality is that the two shores of the mediterranean have started to move apart. in the south, the war in ukraine is often perceived as our problem and our sanctions as harmful, wrongly so. in the south, china, russia, turkey and the gulf monarchies are more popular than europe. the mistakes are shared, but let us do our part, let us be a little less satisfied, much more present, and let us address our partners in the southern mediterranean with much more respect, friendship and frankness to build our common future.
for the greens/efa group madam president, our region, the euro-mediterranean, is experiencing a resurgence of authoritarianism and international violence, while suffering the increasingly severe effects of climate change. in this context, europe must create healthy, lasting and peace-building links with its neighbours. we have been locked up in russian gas for so long, but we must not make the same mistake with our mediterranean neighbours. on the contrary, let us build a mediterranean green pact with them. while we have allowed a violent autocrat to take over moscow, even to export arms to him, let us not make the same mistakes with mediterranean regimes that flout rights. on the contrary, let us strengthen our support for civil society actors who stand up for rights, from jerusalem to tabarka. as the european parliament's permanent rapporteur on egypt, i call on the european union to put pressure on al-sissi, to demand the release of political prisoners and to allow a real mobilisation around cop 27. commissioner, the citizens of the mediterranean region do not expect europe to exploit their wealth and market while imposing a fortress-like migration management. let's return to a migration management that puts international law and human rights at the heart of our policies. finally, in the coming years, our mediterranean neighbours will face food insecurity of a rare intensity, while lebanon is facing record food inflation. let us stand with our neighbours to face these difficult months together.
mr president, this cross-disciplinary initiative provides a welcome opportunity to combine our climate and digital goals with the benefits of creative design and to foster rural and urban developments that improve citizens’ everyday lives. particularly, i welcome the report’s acknowledgement that the new european bauhaus should be linked to the renovation wave. modernising buildings to ensure they are more sustainable and efficient is fundamental to reaching the eu’s climate and energy goals. for this reason, i support my colleagues’ calls for increased funding to be allocated to the new european bauhaus. when managing the implementation of the initiative the commission should ensure that all projects are consistent with the eu’s green and digital climate as they contribute to creating new jobs and business opportunities, and in local areas, and, importantly, that citizens’ perspectives are incorporated into the process. as the objective of new european bauhaus is to create a positive living environment for european citizens, it is essential that citizens themselves have their say in how this programme is implemented. i look forward to seeing this contribution help the local development in ireland and across europe by creating public spaces for the sharing of knowledge, culture and sport.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the new european bauhaus. behind this overly complicated name, there is a beautiful idea for our citizens, that of putting art, culture, design and above all the human being at the heart of the energy transition and the european green deal. with this initiative, we are talking about renovating our buildings with respect for our heritage, building differently, putting nature back into the city, valuing our social relationships, rethinking the way we move and integrating the circular economy into our lives and our cities. but today, in 2022, we are in the dark, with a lack of clarity about the sources of funding. the message i want to convey is therefore an ambitious one: we want a programme and dedicated funding in the european budget. the new european bauhaus must support smes, architects, engineers, artists, craftsmen and apprentices. there are thousands of ideas, local initiatives in europe. they must be made visible so that they can be a source of inspiration for decision-makers, businesses and also for local elected officials.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, two hundred days. two hundred days that the ukrainian people fight the russian aggressor. two hundred days of ukrainians fighting for their values and those of europe. their struggle is our struggle, that of democracy against autocracy, that of the rule of law against the rule of the strongest, that of freedom against oppression, that of our union against its opponents. so much so that the populists no longer dared even say that they were anti-european. today we are hearing their dangerous proposals again because war - and i say war, not sanctions - war has increasingly direct consequences for the daily lives of our fellow citizens, for the price of energy, for the quantity of food, and perhaps tomorrow for the number of jobs available in europe. our democracies have the means to respond to this quickly and effectively. europe is the most efficient level and your speech, madam president, is proof of that, as are your proposals. i thank you for the democratic exercise you have just done. on all these fronts, we support you. we support you first on the first front, the energy front. my group is in favour of a european energy shield to reduce energy bills and i think we can even count on two types of european solidarity. the first type of european solidarity is solidarity with citizens and our smes, using the income of energy producers and placing a ceiling on gas imports. the second type of solidarity is solidarity between member states and our neighbours, by buying energy together, exchanging surpluses, investing more in renewable energy and energy-efficient renovation of buildings. it is our goal, and it was also the goal of our group, to make our continent the first to move away from fossil fuels. so yes, on the benches of the extremes, we have ready-made solutions: this is the end of sanctions. as if sanctions were the cause of the europeans' misery, even though russia's gdp is falling by 6% and the russian army is being reduced to relying on iran and north korea during this war. incompetence or convenience? i do not know, given the evidence and information we had last night about astronomical amounts - €300 million - that would have been paid to political parties in europe and abroad to interfere. we must look at this issue, parliament must address it, the institutions must address it. you have referred to proposals against foreign interference and i think my group will join you on all these issues. we've worked on it before. more work will have to be done on this, since it is a democratic issue first and foremost. the second front, madam president, is that of sovereignty. we must reduce all our dependence on food (and here i would put a parenthesis: on food, we cannot risk a breakdown in europe's supply; we will have to work upstream, look at production), on raw materials, on health, on digital, on defence infrastructure. my group supports a new action plan to identify our vulnerabilities and strengthen our value chains in europe. as europeans, we must ask ourselves the same question every day, and as parliamentarians, more so: does this decision make us more sovereign or more dependent? we are therefore proposing a sovereignty test to check the conformity of all european acquis, of any new legislation built here, between the commission and the european parliament, of all our budgets and of any new investment in the future. it is now time to feed and align all our public policies on the objectives of strategic autonomy. let us make our european union an economic and geopolitical power. you said so in your first speech in this house at the beginning of your mandate. this sovereignty is the key to guaranteeing equality, fairness and the quality of life of our fellow europeans, economic growth, the ecological transition and also our place in the world. madam president, all these proposals also raise the fundamental question of our institutional and budgetary frameworks. the union has shown a certain agility, even flexibility, in recent months. but two questions, beyond the question of generation and the convention you propose, will catch up with us, that is obvious. first, how long will it take for us to reach a unanimous decision? and at what cost? and secondly, how far do we need to invest together and on what priorities? these are also questions that we must ask ourselves if we are launching a major convention, which we must not restrict to one point, perhaps with the question of the council. we must act in an organized way. we were the first to call for a conference on the future of europe, with a review of our budget and a convention to follow. i think my group's position is clear and will not surprise you. the last front, and i'm done with that, won't surprise you either. it's the rule of law. our values should be our compass. what is at stake outside our borders is also at stake within the european union. i am thinking in particular of viktor orbán. not a penny of it should go to mr orbán. look, for the past ten years, where our indifference has led us: corruption and discrimination have exploded in this country. the hungarian controlled media now disseminates russian propaganda and the elections are not even fair anymore. i am thinking also of poland, although the case is different. but these deviations, madam president, must be fought. at a time when other countries may be slipping into uncharted democratic territory, like italy, we ask you to stand. we'll have to hold out. madam president, we are counting heavily on you, on all the european commissioners and on the college. the multiple crises show us that the agenda we set at the beginning of 2019 is the right one. the environmental transition, economic resilience, and the democratic model. for all this, renew is proud of what we have already achieved and ready to go through crises, ready to support you in carrying out the projects you have presented, without trembling, without waiting and without forgetting our priorities, all our priorities in this new international order. madam president, i am convinced that we as europeans will be able to do this collectively.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, madam president von der leyen, colleagues, mrs zelenska, what is the point of a general policy speech if it is not to address the daily concerns of european citizens? so, to remind you, mrs von der leyen, i have come here with the invoices that citizens have asked me to show you. this one, from gilles, who has seen his electricity bill rise by 113 euros per month and who accompanies his message with: "i'm not sure i'll be able to heat myself this winter". greg's, 2,300 euros in gas bills in just six months. and then i could mention many others, like brigitte here, who wonders if she'll have to stop eating or light up this winter. and i'll tell you, these people, there are millions of them, millions of them who can't cope with the skyrocketing prices, which are not limited to the energy sector alone. millions of people can't stand it anymore while their wages stagnate, grow twice as fast as inflation, prices rise, shareholder dividends soar 29%. so i grant you, it is not the crisis for everyone and some are indeed swimming in abundance, as a certain emmanuel macron would say. while 99% of the population is talking, a handful of billionaires are traveling back and forth between paris and ibiza. a handful of these also feed bays that are watered extensively, all in the midst of drought and heat. this is the state of your european union, mrs von der leyen. and i regret that you did not mention these people and that you did mention rather little about social issues in your speech. and this crisis is not just the result of the terrible war in ukraine and the odious blackmail of vladimir putin. it is also the product of an economic system whose shortcomings you are now forced to acknowledge. so let's start with the taxation of super profits. first of all, do you recognize that there are superprofits of large multinational corporations? do not hesitate to speak to the minister of economy and finance, bruno lemaire, who clearly did not understand. while we were the only ones in this parliament to call for a tax on superprofits, i see the debate moving forward and we are on the verge of winning a cultural battle. i do not know whether it is the fear of being right, mrs von der leyen, but i must also commend your lexical creativity. i imagined you with a little dictionary of synonyms, looking for ways to avoid using the same words, bypassing the super profits, inventing the notion of contribution of exceptional profits. but i'll tell you what, the battle of words doesn't matter to us. the important thing is that, to make sense of it, this taxation must not be limited to fossil fuels: it must concern all the companies that have benefited from the crisis. luxury companies like lvmh, shipping companies like cma-cgm, banking companies like bnp. and there are many, multinational companies that have made super profits, not just in the energy sector, it should be said here. the same is true in the energy market. i see you again, celebrating the virtues of the marketplace at the beginning of your term. we can see the result today, with a debacle that illustrates the crisis of your thinking system. the first economic power in the world, the european union, is simply crossing its fingers to ensure that there are not too many blackouts this winter and that people can still afford to simply light or heat themselves. so again, in the face of the failure of this model, you open the door to a blockage - temporary of course - of the revenues of the energy companies, while still leaving huge margins to these companies, sometimes they have not been sufficiently poor. the rust will not be enough. we must keep prices at the pre-crisis level and take energy out of the market, because it is a common good like water, health, nature and everything we need to live. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and in terms of climate, which you've talked so little about today, you can't say that's what's suffocating you. europe has just experienced the hottest summer in its history, and now you are taking it in turns to sign free trade agreements. our planet is burning, we tell the citizens to turn off the wi-fi, but you still ask us to empty the sea with a spoon if at the same time you insist on importing milk and meat from new zealand, literally 19,000 kilometers away, we do not go any further. the problem is that the crisis forces you to change your mind temporarily, but the natural one quickly returns. it's the same story with the pandemic. you told us, "i've learned my lesson", but then you went right back to business as usual. so, in conclusion, mrs von der leyen, you speak of the rejection of the budgetary trap. but how can you believe that when it is in exchange for more control by the member states? you keep talking about a convention, about reforming the treaties, but how can you believe that when you have ignored the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe? we have no time to wait and put it off until tomorrow. in reality, you are a prisoner of a broken software and an end-of-life model, this model of a collapsing liberal politics, unable to solve the crises that your policies have created. in the face of this, there are two alternatives: hatred, and i regret, as do my colleagues on this point, that the right wing has chosen to ally itself with the extreme right, sometimes here and too often in a number of member states. the right has chosen its side, ours, it is clear, it is that of solidarity. so i ask you, mrs von der leyen, how many crises will it take before you finally draw the consequences of these failures?
madam president of the european parliament, madam president of the european commission, we are here. the peoples of europe are at the foot of the wall. if the state of energy emergency is to be declared today, war is no stranger to it. but it is first and foremost your successive blunders that we are paying for today. you are a perfect illustration of the french proverb "hell is paved with good intentions". you wanted to get us out of our dependence on fossil fuels, you put us in the hands of russia, the united states, china and the gulf oil monarchies. you claimed to decarbonise our economy, we are reopening coal-fired power stations because of an absurd and irrational war against nuclear power, under pressure from the greens. you wanted to collapse the russian economy, you offered it an unexpected financial boon by multiplying its hydrocarbon revenues. you claimed to be protecting the environment, but you imported american shale gas with a lot of methane. you have stood up for european values, and today you are kneeling before azerbaijan, which is bombing the brave people of armenia because you asked for their oil. you boasted of the merits of social europe, and now you are preparing the rationing of millions of french and european families who have never been so afraid of the coming winter. through your inconsistencies, your foolish turns, your renunciation of sovereignty, you are plunging our peoples and their businesses into distress by confronting them with emergencies that were thought to be of the past. the reduction in vat on energy, the return to a healthy control of prices by leaving the european electricity market, the taxation of superprofits and the unwavering support for the nuclear sector are all essential measures to prevent us from returning to the economic stone age. mrs von der leyen, the people of europe are angry everywhere. the time is not far off when they will ask you, with the severity of a judge before the guilty party: what have you done with the european dream?
madam president, madam president of the european commission, well, difficult moments in europe indeed: how to continue helping ukraine and at the same time how to mitigate the energy crisis in europe? households are struggling to pay the energy bills. doctors to close their practices. industries preparing massive redundancies. there is a french, german, spanish way on how to deal with this crisis. it’s time to decide what we must do at european level to help citizens in their current struggle and those industries heavily affected. some companies will receive state aid in one country while the same sector in another country will not. we need to ensure a fair level playing field for all affected sectors in europe. winter is coming, we need solidarity, common rules, targeted help for affected businesses and, above all, for our citizens.
madam president, thank you for that speech. and thank you for that modest tribute to the environmentalists by talking about the pioneers who thought in the 1970s that fossils had limits. i say modest homage because you didn't quote us, but i know you think you're coming with us. madam president, the efforts we are going to have to make, the ecological transition we are going to have to make, require resources. and there's a fundamental political question that arises, which is that when you want to fund change, you have to ask the question: who pays? i thank you for proposing this exceptional tax on so-called surplus profits. we believe that taxation should not be limited to superprofits but to profits in general, and in particular to financial transactions, etc. you know that to fund the stimulus plan and the possible future stimulus plans, we are in discussion to get this taxation right. we need your support to get states to agree to these efforts. in closing, i would like to say that the visionaries we were 40 years ago are calling you to hear today that hydrogen is not the magic formula to solve our energy problems. first of all, we must think about fair competition and the development of renewable energies in a decentralised way.
madam president, the crisis we are experiencing requires us all to return to reality, particularly in the field of energy, to get rid of our dependencies, to protect the environment, we are no longer entitled to illusions. you want to develop wind power massively and you have cited denmark as a model. but with almost 10,000 wind turbines, denmark remains dependent on its coal-fired power stations and must import electricity. the energy produced and exported by neighbouring sweden is 50% less carbonated thanks to nuclear power. how can we get out of the impasse if we do not open our eyes, if we send gas to germany to help it through the winter while allowing it to close its nuclear power stations? if we stop paying for russian gas, we pay for azerbaijani gas, thus becoming dependent on another criminal dictatorship. and i dare hope, madam president, that we will condemn together the aggression launched by aliyev yesterday against armenia. it's not just about energy. to return to reality is to refuse these new rules which will reduce agricultural production in europe while food prices are rising everywhere in our countries. it means getting back to production rather than relying on the multiplication of outdated trade agreements. it is breaking the spiral of shared debt that will leave us vulnerable tomorrow. it is about defending frontex and controlling our borders rather than undermining its mandate. it is not just about recruiting talent from abroad, but it is also about better training our young people. you, madam president, want to inscribe solidarity between generations in our treaties and we share this spirit. but that's probably where it starts.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, mrs von der leyen, the only answer you gave me was to ask the european citizens to send their invoices to vladimir putin. i'm sorry, but is that all you have to say to the millions of people who can't make ends meet? yes, colleagues, you can boo me. but i'm proud to come here to speak the word of the people who galley rather than the shareholders. so is that what you're going to tell the people, the people who are gallivanting? send your invoices to putin! of course vladimir putin is solely responsible for the terrible war in ukraine. but you are responsible to the european citizens and you cannot just hide behind him. and your role is to provide concrete answers. moreover, as you yourself have acknowledged, the energy market is not working. yes, there are some over-profits that have been made by corporations on people's backs. so, without the absurd european rules, electricity would not have increased as much as gas and the energy crisis could have been cushioned by a price freeze by the states. and you know that very well, mrs von der leyen. so stop hiding behind others, draw all the conclusions from the analysis of your failures by drawing the energy out of the market, blocking prices and taxing superprofits. and believe me, i think these proposals will be far more effective than sending these bills to vladimir putin.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i shall perhaps be a little more explicit than you about the speeches that have been made in this house. mr. bardella, i'm sorry, but your intervention is irresponsible. it is irresponsible because it is not the sanctions that are the cause of the europeans, it is you and the russians. you have been in contact with the russian authorities for many years and now you are giving us lessons on what should be done at european level today. i said so in my speech, madam president, but we must deal with the issues of interference. the question of money paid to political parties by the kremlin is a real issue of european independence and sovereignty. these are the questions that will have to be addressed here and i am also counting on the commission to be able to organise this work. and then a message to the italian colleagues in this debate in the debate: excuse us for not having the same ideas as you, dear colleagues. forgive us for thinking that the italian elections are not yet over, and forgive me for wanting an italy that is open to europe, open to the world. so, of course, we will respect the results in italy, but allow us to campaign. and democracy is campaigning, it's campaigning on european issues and it's campaigning against your ideas. i'm sorry about that.
in writing. – the state of the european union address has become a landmark in the political life of the eu. however, the european citizens are left somewhere in the background during this important moment. they are meant to receive the address and not to contribute to creating the priorities that are at the cornerstone of the soteu. this can no longer continue as such, especially after the conference on the future of europe. citizens have asked during the conference to be involved more often in the decision—making process of the eu. not only 5 years, when they vote, or every 20 or 30 years when something similar to the conference happens. a permanent consultation mechanism should be created as a result of this key request, that will integrate the citizens in the political discussion revolving around the european commission work programme, and thus, around the soteu. replicating the positive experience represented by the cofoe citizens’ panels is necessary to reinforce the credibility of the eu towards its citizens. i hope that the next soteu address will involve an element of participatory democracy in a meaningful way and will continue to empower citizens to contribute.
in writing. in the context of the current crises, the european union has proved to be a safety net for many european countries through the measures and responses it has offered to generate security and well-being for its citizens, but we must not stop there. the russian aggression against ukraine, the consequences of the coronavirus pandemic, rising energy prices or food insecurity are just some of the challenges we face and to which the eu needs to provide more concrete and practical solutions. we need a europe that can act faster, more efficiently, but above all respond to the problems and needs of its citizens. let's move beyond the talking area and move towards solutions. the year 2023 is an important moment for the recovery and stabilisation of the eu, which is why i welcome the announced support instruments for population and smes, the european year of education and training and the new programmes, outlined following the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe and the need to review the recovery plans. to this end, we have amended the european budget to ensure that the funds available will be used appropriately, including by making existing programmes more flexible or extending programmes and implementation periods so that we can deliver fast results.
in writing. president von der leyen's speech shed a good deal of light on the pressing challenges facing europe and the world today, with the war in ukraine and the energy crisis, the price gouging and inflation, climate change and the threat to human rights, international law and the fundamental commitments on which the eu is built, at the forefront. but words must now be followed by action. i therefore welcome the commission's announcement of a decisive fight against 'war profiteering', in particular in the electricity industry, as well as the urgent announcement of independent electricity price formation, independent of gas, and a radical reform of the gas and electricity markets. the commission is not showing any signs of a slowdown in the market, which is crucial to protect the most vulnerable in particular. i also welcome the commission's announcement of a doubling of firefighting capacity, as i had called for in the eu after devastating fires, and addressed the initiative to establish a pan-european mechanism for the management and restoration of fireplaces. today's address - more of a roadmap for the union's action in the months ahead - is seen by the president of the european commission as a desire to correct the bad impression of the inability to act in a timely and united manner so far. but we can't go past what the president didn't say or mention. the eu's role in the world is to help the poorest countries to find their own way in the world.
in writing. in a war economy context, the ability to implement collaborative and solidarity-based measures is crucial, pursuing with determination a path that strengthens the union's strategic autonomy, protects its values and ensures the safety of persons and property, living conditions, economic and social dynamics and the ability to robustly support ukraine in responding to the aggression of the russian federation. the measures and agendas announced by the president of the european commission frame an overall positive response, which requires speed in implementation and solidity in the underlying strategic vision. i stress the importance of a new agenda for economic governance, one that is more flexible and investment-friendly. the pact for the defence of european democracy and the joint projects, notably in lithium and rare earths, the sme support measures, the new global alliances and the creation of a european sovereignty fund, strengthen the eu in global geopolitics. i would also stress the importance of the cyclical and structural reform of energy markets and the proposal to set up a european hydrogen bank. i would finally like to highlight the opportunity to designate 2023 as the european year of education and training.
i have received an announcement from the competent authorities of portugal: notice of the election to the european parliament of joão albuquerque to replace manuel pizarro with effect from 13 september 2022. i would like to welcome our colleague and point out that he will take his seat in parliament as from today and on its bodies in full enjoyment of his rights, as provided in the rules of procedure. welcome. i understand that there is a point of order that ms reintke wants to make.
madam president, dear colleagues, a lot of you might know a very important european event is set to take place this saturday in belgrade. it’s europride. it’s a demonstration for freedom, for democracy, for fundamental rights and diversity, a pan-european demonstration. unfortunately, it has been cancelled yesterday by serbian authorities. we are in very close contact both with the serbian government as well as with the pride organisers, but i wanted to use this opportunity for this parliament to show that we are a parliament that stands for the fundamental right of freedom of assembly and with the lgbti community all across the european union and in serbia and in europe.
thank you, ms reintke. let me be clear: we still need pride. too many people still live in fear. too much discrimination still exists, and i would like to inform you that i have written to the authorities of serbia to ensure that the letter signed by so many colleagues in this house reaches the right person. the message i would like to send to that all our citizens, young and old, is that in our europe you can live how you wish to live, you can love whoever you wish to love and be who you wish to be. and this parliament stands exactly for those rights.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
in accordance with rule 241 (4), i would like to inform you that no request for a vote was made on the correction to the imco committee which was announced to the plenary yesterday at the opening of the sitting. the correction is therefore deemed to be accepted.
as regards the decisions of several committees to open interinstitutional negotiations under rule 71 (1), announced at the opening of the sitting on monday 12 september, the president did not receive any request for a vote in parliament from members or from one or more political groups reaching at least the middle threshold. the committees can therefore start negotiations.
we shall now proceed to the votes.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i think this is a good day for europe's energy transition. and now that i have this result, i want to have the legitimacy to go back to the committee to start the interinstitutional negotiations.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 1.38 p.m.)
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. is there any objection? i don't see that. the minutes are approved.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs gwendoline delbos-corfield, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council decision, pursuant to article 7 (1) of the treaty on european union, establishing the existence of a clear risk of a serious breach by hungary of the values on which the union is founded (2018/0902r(nle)) (a9-0217/2022).
i'm the reporter. madam president, this report is the culmination of the work of five of the seven groups in this parliament, a work of great coherence, responsibility and parliamentary quality, which will long remain a reminder of what can be done intelligently in this parliament. this report, which has already been voted on in the libe committee and which i hope will be voted on by a majority and a large majority in the plenary, in particular by the members of the ppe group, all those right-wing conservatives who make a clear distinction between the right and the far right. so in this report, in the recommendations, in point number two, we write that we deeply regret that the lack of decisive action by the european union has contributed to the breakdown of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary, turning the country into a hybrid regime of electoral autocracy, as the most relevant indicators show. the question is how we can, in these circumstances, allow the council to continue to legislate as it does on a daily basis, or at any rate on a monthly basis. because for years now we have avoided defining what is happening in hungary, we have avoided naming the regime of the hungarian government precisely. we avoid it by using metaphors and comparisons, almost oxymorons. we invented the term "illiberal democracy" and we do not do it by chance. we do this because, indeed, we would be trapped the day we admitted that hungary is no longer really a democracy at all. so we are talking about a democracy in trouble. we speak of a quasi-democracy because it is very clear in our texts that the decisions taken in the council by the 27 member states are decisions taken by 27 democratic states. and as long as one of these states is a democratic quasi-state, we can still accommodate it. if we were to consider only one of these eastern states, we would be in trouble because the council's decisions are decisions which affect the daily lives of europeans, our rights and freedoms for everyone in this european union, which also affect our security and, at a time like the one we are living in, which affect our relationship with russia, which affect our attitude to what is happening in ukraine: are we helping that country to regain its freedom and sovereignty? in the end, what happens and what is decided in the council every month, which is becoming increasingly important for the european union - for example on the energy issue at the moment - are decisions that concern our sovereignty to all of us. this report was necessary because since 2017 and the vote on the sargentini report, things have changed dramatically in five years on all subjects. there are a number of issues, ranging from the functioning of the constitutional electoral system to the independence of the judiciary. in 2017, the first attacks took place. since then, there have been omnibus laws, huge judicial reforms that make judicial independence as unlikely in hungary as it is in poland, and we don't say it enough. there was a constitutional coup, which was already in the sargentini report, but since then there have been the repeated emergency systems and the restriction of parliamentary rights in hungary, under the pretext of confinement. there was already a state of affairs of olaf and some institutions on the state of corruption, but since then, we even wonder if we should continue to give money, since we know that it is the orbán family itself that recovers european funds. let's talk about data protection and journalists spied on by pegasus, let's talk about academic freedom: since the takeover of universities, the situation has worsened every day. but let us talk about fundamental rights. lgbti people have seen their rights continuously reduced to an infamous law that resembles putin's laws. and then this week, women became the new enemies from within. exactly like in poland. they have been somewhat more spared than in other countries. but today, even women in hungary are enemies. they will have to go through extremely painful things to get the right to have an abortion. at the time of the vote on this report, hungary continues to face enemies from within and attacks on the fundamental rights of its citizens, which is why this report was so necessary.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, as part of its crusade for its own conception of the rule of law and even more so for what it sees as its european values, the european parliament supports a damning new report against hungary. his government is accused of all the evils and the conclusion is that a kind of monster called a hybrid regime of electoral autocracy has emerged in this country, in order to push the european commission to perpetuate the blockade of the disbursement of european funds intended for hungary. without any foundation, based on vague and highly questionable notions, this text wants to impose once again this imperialist conception of an all-powerful european union. it is a kind of political settlement of accounts against a country which refuses to drift away from the principles of european integration. you forget that the hungarian people have clearly defined and confirmed the policy of their government in the face of a coalition of all the oppositions. the incumbent prime minister and his ruling fidesz party won the parliamentary elections by a landslide, for the fourth time in a row, improving their results by almost four points compared to the previous elections. democracy means respecting the decision of the voters. hungary is a democracy. you forget about the hungarian people. the european parliament has nothing to do with this report, which was drafted by a very ideologically-minded member of parliament. it should be recalled that the president of the commission had decided, two days after the elections, to trigger the conditionality mechanism for the first time. in the words of monsieur de talleyrand, minister of napoleon i, all that is excessive is insignificant. with this report, the maxim remains perfectly timely.
mr president, a united europe cannot continue for the sake of money, but by ignoring common values. the war on our borders is not a pretext for leaders or governments to violate european principles. we cannot tolerate indefinitely that some members behave like the enemies of the union, with whom they kiss in pictures and in statements all too often. we cannot accept that russian propaganda and putin's grasp penetrate the heart of europe and poison the lives of our citizens. viktor orbán is consistently opposed to all initiatives that make a united europe stronger, but he loves european money. our response was too long and too gentle. in the state of the union address, the rule of law is a priority, as is the fight against corruption. but the time for speeches is over. today is the time to act. today is the time to really put citizens first and not the interests of groups or parties. today we must protect europe from enemies from within, just as we protect ourselves from attacks from outside.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this morning the president of the commission, mrs von der leyen, stressed the importance of the media, the opposition and civil society when a state is in danger of sliding towards totalitarianism. for almost ten years this parliament has been calling for european action in hungary to ensure respect for the independence of the media and the independence of the judiciary. it's important to support the counter-power in the face of a deviant government. in hungary, when it is not about the cause of women, it is the cause of lgbti rights that is being used to oppose individuals to each other, to divert attention from the proven corruption of orbán's relatives. what 's europe got to do with it ? instead of seeing her as an ally, orbán blames her for all the evils to hide his intentions belonging to a world of the past. this is an abominable attitude and we must not allow it to go unchallenged. europe must act and live up to its ambitions. the commission's words on rule of law must be followed by concrete actions. my group is in favour of strict application of the principle of conditionality and of involving the european parliament, the only european institution composed of directly elected members, in the process and monitoring of the application of the facts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since mrs barley and the socialists have not asked themselves these questions, i should like to leave something in the chamber. in germany, politicians directly decide who is appointed as a judge at the federal level. the decision is taken by the selection committee, which may be composed exclusively of politicians. 16 members are the state ministers, another 16 members are appointed by the bundestag. should it not be considered double standards that the independence and the politicization of the german courts are never called into question, while you repeatedly express concern about the independence of the hungarian and polish courts?
member of the commission. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you again for this debate. the rule of law is the foundation of european unity. it is essential to protect the values on which the union is founded: freedom, democracy, equality and respect for human rights. this is what the 27 member states freely agreed to when they joined. in these unprecedented times of crisis, we must remain united and we must ensure that the common values that unite us are respected. in this context, article 7 procedures play an important role and the commission will continue to play an active part in them. our door is always open to the hungarian authorities to effectively resolve the problems identified. i met again with the hungarian minister of justice last week to continue our dialogue on the necessary reforms. we are also available to the council to present a status report or to participate in an article 7 hearing on hungary. as you know, the next steps in this procedure are in the hands of the council. and let me say that i am a little surprised, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, that the council has not been invited to take part in this debate, given the many questions you put to it. the commission, for its part, will continue to use all the instruments at its disposal, including those you have mentioned - the conditionality or conditions of a recovery and resilience plan - to protect, of course, but also to promote the rule of law.
rapporteur. – mr president, if hungary had been a country outside of the european union, we would have defined very precisely the regime that is in place years ago. we did not because we feel trapped in this situation and we are very uncomfortable. i think that indulgence was given to hungary more than the contrary. i also wanted to say if a member state of this european union has structural deficiencies in one topic like judiciary, independence of judiciary or corruption, it would need a debate and it needs work and this is very frequently done for a number of member states in this plenary, but this report is something else. this report is an interim report. it is an exhaustive report about a systemic problem in hungary that is so grave that it cannot be resolved with different resolutions. now, this parliament has done its work to the utmost of its duty. we cannot do more. once again, to answer those that spoke in this room today, democracy is not the imposition of the majority against all the others. it is not that. it is not crushing the ones that are different from you. democracy is not refusing those that don’t have christian values to exist. and democratic fair elections are not elections that are made in a system where opposition has no voice, where the constituencies have been changed, where constitutional rules are different all the time and where equal votes are not made. and a democratic government is not a government that tells lies, lies, for example, about the european union. a democratic government doesn’t say that the european union is prepared to send young hungarians to the war in ukraine. a democratic government doesn’t say that the european union wants to change the sex of children in little schools. this is not democratic procedures. so, that is why we need to do much more about hungary and that is what this report is about. but now, and i agree with you, mr commissioner, it’s in the hands of the council and i think that we cannot do any more here. and i’m very worried because i don’t see anything happening and we need recommendations. and maybe one day we need to envisage the difficult questions of sanctions and we start withdrawing the votes of hungary in the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, practices and policies which violate fundamental rights have taken various forms in europe over the last two years: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation. new threats to human rights and democracy are manifesting themselves online and through the misuse of surveillance technology. the pandemic has also had a significant impact on rights related to education, employment and health; has exacerbated inequalities, gender violence, hate speech, misinformation and discrimination, which have, as always, affected the most vulnerable individuals and groups. although in some countries violations of the rule of law are considered systemic, they are difficult to combat, despite frequent calls for the application of monitoring mechanisms for prevention purposes and the instruments provided for by european law, including the conditionality regulation. it is on this level that all efforts and action must be renewed to put a stop to the deterioration of fundamental rights and freedoms.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the pandemic has had very significant economic and social repercussions, but it has also deprived some citizens of their fundamental rights. i am thinking in particular of women and children, for whom access to certain medical, educational or judicial services has been much more difficult or impossible than usual. the successive confinements have accentuated violence, especially domestic violence, against women: forced to live with their tormentors, many female victims have not been able to access effective reporting mechanisms, nor to benefit from adequate protection and support. unicef also warns that the prolonged closure of many schools, cultural spaces, after-school activities and sports activities will have a lasting impact on children's development. we're already seeing this with an increase in dropout rates and a doubling of depression rates among young people. in this respect, i welcome the initiative announced this morning by ursula von der leyen on mental health, it is a priority. much more time than usual spent on the internet during this period has also led to an increase in online violence. in europe, online child sexual abuse increased by 50% during the pandemic. so the commission put forward two texts a few months ago to combat these despicable acts. one concerns women who are victims of violence and the other sexual abuse of children. parliament will work on these legislative texts with three strands: the prevention, protection and enforcement strands. we must be particularly firm with regard to the perpetrators of these acts and the response, including criminal prosecution, must be in line with the expectations of the victims. whether in crisis situations or not, our fundamental rights, the right to be protected from violence, abuse and all forms of abuse, must be defended with the utmost firmness and meet the expectations of people, especially the most vulnerable.
mr. president, fundamental rights, on the walls of the state of the union, i write your names. the crisis that we went through in 2020 and 2021, and that we are still going through, has put fundamental rights in clinical death. but isn't it said that the slightest injustice, wherever it is committed, threatens the whole edifice in the end? inequalities are exacerbated, systemic discrimination. and they have shown the failure of europe in its policies, such as the disability policy, for example, where accessibility, autonomy, citizenship appear in our texts, but rarely in our daily lives. the failure of europe too, in its asylum and migration policies, where our duty of humanity is sacrificed on the ramparts on the other hand, the victory of the europe of the market, preferred to our elderly in ehpad and elsewhere, abused, as the orpéa scandal, a european group, and others before it have demonstrated. the list is long and not exhaustive. today, we have to deal the cards. it is up to us to rethink our european policies for the common good, for the citizens. because to deny people their basic rights is to challenge their humanity.
mr president, commissioner, i was about ten years old when, in the early 1990s, i saw the collapse of one of the last totalitarian systems of the 20th century. it's 2022 and your report says: backsliding rule of law, backsliding lgbt rights and attitudes, backsliding women's rights. i think i grew up from the age of ten with the idea that it could only be for the better. well, it was an illusion. it was an illusion and today, when i hear some in this house talking about ideology because we are on the side of those who defend respect for the rule of law, respect for differences, respect for women's rights, i invite them to simply go and see those polish women who have to have an abortion clandestinely or go somewhere else outside poland to do so, to go and see those young homosexuals in poland who are growing up in villages where they are told that they do not even belong. or i invite them to go and see these european journalists who are being bugged by the pegasus software by some governments. so, commissioner, together with you, with the european commission, we do not give up because while we are fighting for it, i regret to say that others here are fighting hard against it.
author. – dear colleagues, thank you to all the co-rapporteurs for your cooperation on this resolution. we raise our voice against the massive deportation of ukrainian civilians, including children. according to estimates, more than 1 million ukrainians have been deported to russia, including more than 200 000 children forcefully taken there. ukrainian children are being separated from their parents, seized and put up for adoption. russia is actively trying to steer the future of ukraine. if we want to help ukraine, we must ensure that their future children will be returned. that is why we call on russia to immediately cease the forced deportation and forcible transfer of ukrainian civilians, especially children. russia must repeal all legislation facilitating the adoption of ukraine’s children and allow for the reunification with their parents. we stress the urgent need for eu and international organisations such as the united nations refugee agency and unicef to have access to visit to the filtration camp, those facilities, and assist ukrainian citizens, especially children, in their return to ukraine. as president von der leyen said today, courage as a face, the face of ukrainian brave people, mothers and their children. we will follow the track of these children and we will not stop until their safe return.
author. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, putin and his regime are stealing ukrainian children and the country's future. by forcibly deporting ukrainian civilians, by changing their citizenship, by allowing the speedy adoption of ukrainian children, and by rewriting ukrainian textbooks in the occupied territories of ukraine, he and his entourage are seeking to destroy the ukrainian identity and the ukrainian nation. these actions amount to genocide. all those who contribute to the implementation of this policy must be subject to eu sanctions and prosecution before a future tribunal. i call on the eu and its member states to contribute to a mechanism to facilitate the return of forcibly deported ukrainian civilians. i express my gratitude to all those who, in spite of personal danger, are restlessly working to locate, forcibly deported ukrainians, including forcibly adopted children, and to return them safely home. ukraine's victory against unprovoked russian aggression is our common goal. we must continue to support the heroic people of ukraine so that they and their future – their children – are safe. slava ukraini.
author. – madam president, once more, the method so well known to all of us neighbours of russia, whole generations of us, is now happening in ukraine. over 2 million of forcefully departed people to the hands of the enemy attacking brutally their country. over half a million kids. terrified undergoing forced russification, illegally adopted and terrified because they are so distant from their families, their parents. russia has to be defeated in this war, clearly defeated and forced to repeal all legislation and allow, by the pressure of the whole international community, to return all of them home, to their homeland and possibly still to their families. we wish them all the best. god bless ukraine.
the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, remember the mariupol theatre in front of which the inhabitants had written the word 'dieti' (children) in large letters, hoping that their tormentors would show a hint of humanity. remember, the russian army bombed anyway. keep in mind that ukrainian children are therefore targets of the russian war, as were syrian children yesterday and chechen children the day before. keep in mind that tens and tens of thousands of ukrainian children were deported to russia and many of them were forcibly adopted to be russified. and then you will understand that putin is not just a dangerous and harsh autocrat, he is a criminal against humanity. that his war is not just a war, but an attempt to wipe out a nation. let every european politician or commentator who relayed his propaganda here be complicit in his crimes. and that there is a place for him in an international criminal court, in a cell, and a place for them, his european minions, in the dustbin of history.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, the european union’s position on russia’s justified and unprovoked war of aggression against ukraine is clear: the european union stands by ukraine as long as it takes, and the european union takes action against russia, the aggressor and the perpetrator of atrocities and crimes against ukraine and the ukrainian people. first, the european union has adopted the largest sanctions package ever, and nothing, nothing is off the table. russia is heading for the worst recession since 1990. second, just last week, the european union fully suspended the visa facilitation agreement. third, the european union is working with partners around the world to counter russian disinformation, raising awareness that it is russia’s aggression, not western sanctions, which is aggravating the food and energy crisis. fourth, the european union seeks to isolate russia in international fora and calling it out for its breaches of international law and international humanitarian law. and finally, the european union is supporting all efforts on accountability, seeking to document the evidence needed to hold the perpetrators of war crimes accountable. we have, like the honourable members, heard the allegations of forced removal to territories under russian military control or to the russian federation itself. we are particularly concerned that the united nations human rights office has found credible allegations of forced transfers of unaccompanied minors. we encourage united nations entities and the non-governmental human rights organisations to pursue their work in documenting these allegations in order to have a solid picture of their scope and their scale. while awaiting further reports on the situation on the ground, we demand that all persons reported disappeared or missing in ukraine, must be searched for, located and released or returned. therefore we call for unimpeded access by un entities, icrc and civil society, to all areas where civilians are detained. we also demand that any checks and filtrations and any detention that may follow such checks takes place in a legal framework, respecting the principles of necessity and proportionality. we remind that forcible transfers of civilians is prohibited under international humanitarian law, notably the geneva convention. all cases of enforced disappearances must be duly investigated and those responsible therefore held accountable for war crimes. let me finally underline the fate of persons in the most vulnerable situations – in this context, namely women and children – they face risks which include sexual exploitation, trafficking, sexual violence far from the public eye. it is our common duty to focus on accountability and on widespread condemnation.
the author. madam president, madam commissioner, the european parliament is absolutely united in this resolution and expresses its support for the people of uganda and tanzania, who have been under great pressure. at the same time, it respects the judicial process and trusts the government in the french judiciary. the negotiations were tough, but i would like to thank my socialist colleague, mr larrouturou, for the resolution he prepared and for his very high-quality and objective cooperation. across the parties without exception, including the verts/ale party, we can say that we find our footprint there. we agreed on the human rights violations that can occur in connection with fossil fuel investment projects, which we consider unacceptable. at the same time, there is no doubt that development projects are important for the region's economic growth, and we do not question that growth. it is therefore important that we assess all projects and their consequences in terms of their impact on the population and the environment, and i believe that this resolution will contribute to this objective.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, dear friends, dear elisa ferreira, this summer we went on the ground with katalin, with marie, with malta. we spent nine days in uganda and saw and heard from people who witnessed the most serious human rights violations. i'm still really upset about it. we have seen and heard from farmer families who have not been able to use their land normally for four years, but who have not received the money that total was supposed to give them. and if the parents don't have money, the children can't go to school. the elderly have no access to health care. and if there is no money for all the children, we will send boys rather than girls, and that increases discrimination. the emergency resolution on which we have worked with tomáš, whom i thank, with katalin and malte, whom i also thank, and their teams, this resolution which we are going to vote on tomorrow concerns more than 100 000 people in their daily lives. that's 100,000 people suffering today, many of them, and potentially over 40 million more people who would have major problems with access to water if this eacop pipeline were to break down due to earthquakes or other reasons. and the men and women who fight there do so with incredible courage. i can't believe this. and i am proud that our parliament is here today to make their voices heard. we are sometimes divided, as in all parliaments. but tomáš, as you said, today we are gathered to give voice to those who suffer and who want to fight for human dignity. we can be proud that our parliament, in its resolution, has the voice of yosh, that old man who is very respected in his village, who spent more than 50 days in prison for no good reason, just because he wanted to assert the rights of the peasants in his village. we can be proud to carry the voice of frederic, fred, who was one of the peasants who came to paris to testify before the court. his only problem is that he testified before the french courts. and when he came back, he said in front of us, the deputies, in front of the cameras, he said, "i'm hiding". because of total, i'm hiding with my family. his wife was feeding their baby. i'm hiding with my family because of total. when i came back from france where i had testified, someone called me and said, "if you win your trial, we'll kill you". if you win your trial, we'll kill you. ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that this resolution be voted on and that tomorrow we can call on those in uganda and tanzania to say that parliament is united in fighting with them for fundamental rights and for the future of the planet.
author. – madam president, dear colleagues and of course, dear people with an interest on the further existence of us on this beautiful planet, end of july i was in uganda, and on the very first day i read the headline on the front page of a newspaper stating that 900 people had just died from hunger due to the severe droughts there. and only one week later i read the exact opposite: heavy rains had caused landslides and destroyed dozens of houses. all around the world, we experience the pure brutality of the ongoing climate crisis. droughts, fires, floods – they hit the most vulnerable the hardest, like destroying their livelihoods and leaving them with the questions whether their land will still be home to their children. and we all know this is because of our destruction of the world’s climates and environment. and yet in uganda and tanzania, big companies like to say that they plan to construct the longest heated pipeline in the world that would additionally emit 34 million tons of carbon to our atmosphere every year, affecting more than 100 000 people and put severe risks on one of the most diverse ecosystems in the world. i call on the governments of uganda and tanzania to stop the east african crude oil pipeline and invest in future-proof technologies. oil export will not solve energy poverty. solar panels and wind turbines, they do. you have all the potential to go for 100% renewables in all sectors, please use it! and to all the companies that prefer to be part of the problem, you can do better, be a part of the solution and work for the benefit of the local communities.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: why are we dealing with countries on another continent? perhaps because some of the member states of the union are colonial countries that once reaped great profits from this. perhaps because european companies are operating in these countries with high profits. but is it because for many people in these continents, the european union, for all its flaws and mistakes, is a source of hope? i was in one of the asian countries recently. i've been meeting with ordinary citizens, the downtrodden. and they believe in the union. maybe more often than we do. today we're talking about people who live in the beautiful great lakes region of africa. 100,000 people could be displaced from there, because it's actually the longest pipeline in the world. on the one hand, you can say, well, it's good that this kind of investment is happening in africa. on the other hand, the question is: at what cost? and it's good that we ask this question above the political divide. finally, let me quote the motto of a famous book by an english writer, hemingway, who, quoting the english poet john donne, wrote: "ask not for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for thee". that's why we're on this case.
author. madam president, the east african oil pipeline is yet another example of how the new european colonialism extracts benefits while externalizing the human and ecological costs. another flagrant case of plundering the natural resources of an african country and violating the environmental and social rights of a people. and all this with the invaluable cooperation of european governments like the french. several investigations have denounced not only the support of the french authorities for the activities of the company total in uganda but also the revolving doors, which function as a real prize for policies and politicians who are complacent with the interests of multinationals. however, or rather because of this, this resolution has not only refused to demand the immediate suspension of this project, but it does not even call for a one-year moratorium on total. in 2021, the international energy agency warned that to avoid the most destructive effects of the climate crisis, the development of new oil and gas fields needed to be stopped immediately. but in this parliament we continue to ignore these recommendations. the climate crisis we face may be one of the greatest challenges and dangers we have as a society. we can't just go on like this. it is essential to put an end to european neocolonial and extractivist policies in african countries such as uganda and tanzania, which not only have a high environmental cost but also a high social cost, because there is no planet b. the profits of multinationals can never be worth more than people's lives.
the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, it is well known that uganda is not a land of human rights. everybody knows that. mr museveni, who has been in power for 36 years, and his entourage are responsible for violent repression of all opposition groups, including arbitrary arrests, abductions, unjust prosecutions and even massacres. recently, this unleashing has targeted ngos working on issues related to oil projects in the region. these ngos are simply defending the rights of families and communities who are displaced by the decision to install this pipeline, which is a 2,000-kilometer pipeline between uganda and tanzania. behind this project, we have a company, which is a european company called total energy. this company has obtained the operating licence. so, of course, total energy is complicit in what's going on and what we've seen on the ground is simply unacceptable. victims' families who are not compensated for their losses, children who can no longer go to school, families who are no longer fed. all this is total's complicity. it is a european company. we want corporate responsibility, we want due diligence. these companies must pay and must stop their actions which are unacceptable today in africa and elsewhere.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, there were some very strong words in this house this morning, including from the president of the commission. the atrocities in ukraine, the climate chaos, european values, human rights and of course the absolute need to move away from fossil fuels. so there's a project that is totally opposite to everything we've talked about this morning: this is the project in uganda and tanzania. it is the violation of human rights, it is the destruction of the climate, the destruction of biodiversity. and there is an oil group that is the opposite of everything we have said this morning: it is total energy. total energy complicit in war crimes in ukraine. total energy complicit in human rights violations in uganda and tanzania. total energy guilty of environmental crimes. this parliament and the european commission must demand that france, its president and its government cease all diplomatic, political, financial and military aid to total energy in uganda and tanzania. total energy must emerge from impunity and irresponsibility. we are responsible for it and we are responsible for the climate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. as recently as june, in my report on trade relations between the eu and africa, our house made a clear call for a rethinking of economic relations. the planned exploitation of uganda's oil reserves by the french total and chinese cnooc companies is laughable. it's an unworthy project of the old style. it's not bringing economic progress to east africa. the transport of crude oil by pipeline across uganda and tanzania to the sea is a threat to the environment. people are being forcibly relocated. the oil that's been extracted is nothing but dirt in the region. it's sold entirely in europe and china. the pipeline companies from australia and china are supposed to build it. fifteen banks have refused to finance the $3 billion project because of environmental concerns. i expect the european commission to guarantee that no european default guarantees will be provided. the commission shares our view in its opinion on my report to parliament. so i expect action. people before profits!
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is simple: to meet our climate commitments, we must leave fossil fuels in the ground. the project we are discussing today will not only result in the emission of 33 million tonnes of co2, twice the cumulative emissions of uganda and tanzania, but will also risk the pollution of lake albert and will cross 16 supposedly protected nature reserves, home to almost a thousand species such as rothschild's giraffes, elephants and hippos. but with the support of the europeans. this project is the work of total energy, one of the only companies with european status and the 17th largest polluter in the world. the same company that yesterday was working with the burmese junta and supplying russian bombers. total energy, whose deployment strategy aims to produce 47% more oil and gas by 2030 - more - than at the time of the paris agreement. a strategy that 15 communities have joined together against, not activists, not ngos, but communities who brought total and its climate bombs to justice. a project that is supported by the french government, indifferent to the fate of the living and the hundreds of thousands of displaced people who are also being muzzled. no, this project will not benefit the local people. it is the perpetuation of the plundering of the african continent and the destruction of nature. oil is hurting the local people. they are displaced, subjected to violence and exploitation, because the economic stakes are too high and only a tiny part of the oil manna will really benefit them. the shareholders are the ones who get rich. african lives matter. it's time to respect them. and the living dies. it's time to protect him. we must hear the voices of those in uganda and tanzania who are opposed to this project, of those young people who know only too well that to preserve their future it is necessary to have the courage, yes the courage to give up a project like eacop. it was essential that parliament should take up this matter and echo these ugandan and tanzanian mobilizations. because no, oil is not drinkable and, as albert camus said, i revolt, therefore we are. then let us revolt against it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at last. finally, our parliament has decided to adopt a resolution against the massive human rights violations by total. it's the same company that's been making our pockets full, destroying an entire region halfway around the world. total is about to commit one of the greatest human and environmental crimes in our history with its plans to drill 400 oil wells in ugandan nature reserves and build a pipeline heated to 50 degrees. tens of thousands of people have already been thrown on the roads so that total can plant this new climate bomb to satisfy the thirst of a few shareholders. so it is up to us today to take responsibility, to demand both an end to this eacop madness and an end to the impunity for multinationals. it is ours, since emmanuel macron himself personally supports total with the ugandan president. it is up to us, since the french state does not seem to want to respect the law on the duty of vigilance and stop the total project. it is up to us, because we have a historic opportunity to do better with the european directive on the duty of vigilance. that is why we will need much more ambition to finally put an end to the impunity of multinationals.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are at a moment of truth in our regional policy. in one of the most difficult periods in the recent history of our continent, affected by the pandemic and the return of war, cohesion policy has proved to be a modern and flexible instrument that can and has been deployed to respond to emergencies. the course of history is leading us today to reflect on the future of this policy with the aim of strengthening it, modernising it, simplifying it and making it fit for the great challenges facing our continent. i therefore welcome the work of this house, and i pay tribute to constanze krehl and all the fictitious rapporteurs, of whom i am one, in this house, because in the context of the eighth report we have produced an ambitious text which proposes very concrete reforms. we therefore look forward to the commission coming back to work together now, to simplify cohesion policy, to invest more, more effectively in rural development and to improve the link between cohesion and economic governance. all our territories, all our citizens are waiting for us. we must be at the appointment. we must answer now. the union's regional policy is the policy that is closest to the citizens and most accessible to them. it is an indispensable tool for building a more inclusive, greener, more connected, smarter europe.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am surprised that mr omarjee's text was almost unanimously adopted in committee. it is a very dangerous and deeply federalist approach. the commission is proposing to relaunch the ecbm proposal, a mechanism invented by the commission, which would allow a region to choose to apply a foreign law for a given subject. this form of legal extraterritoriality would create a porosity of national legislation and a confusion of sovereignty which we cannot accept. the aim is, of course, that the regions have only one interlocutor: brussels. the commission has mentioned living laboratories, which is offensive and shocking, because it seems to imply that the overseas citizens concerned by this text are guinea pigs. as regards mrs krehl's report, i am glad that some of our proposals have been taken up. a pre-validation mechanism that project promoters could use with their banks so as not to have to wait for the often late budget releases. however, i agree with the criticism that there is a lack of impact studies accompanying the removal of intermediate regions or the integration of the eafrd into the general regulation. finally, i regret that such a comprehensive report does not mention the consequences of migration policies on economic or cultural cohesion. for these reasons we shall vote against mr omarjee's report and abstain on mrs krehl's.
madam president, mr rapporteur, in my view this report on border regions does not leave out the overseas countries. because, yes, we are also border regions. i appreciate the attention paid to the areas which have a special need for europe, especially in the very difficult context we are currently experiencing. adaptation and pragmatism are the two ambitions we must pursue for the border regions, including our overseas departments. adaptation because we are faced with very specific local realities, and pragmatism in order to act without ideology, as close as possible to the problems we are facing. i therefore welcome the perspective that your report sets out for the development of crossborder cooperation. of course, we who are far from the continent know that the best development avenues are often found in cooperation with regions dependent on third countries in our geographical area. our overseas history has been built in a relationship of satelliteisation with the centrality of the european continent. we are now aware that we must break the vicious circle which holds back the development of border regions and particularly of the overseas countries and territories. any initiative towards a new relationship between the margins and centrality is positive. i therefore support your report, mr rapporteur.
that concludes this item.
the sitting is closed and will resume at 9 a.m. tomorrow, thursday 15 september, with the debate on the report by mr goeren and myself on the statute and financing of european political parties and european political foundations. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are dealing today with a report which is intended to regulate european political party financing more effectively. the financing of political parties is without doubt one of the mosaic stones that together represent the image of european democracy or - which is not the same thing - democracy in europe. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we want strong party families as those who also explain to the public what is happening in parliament, who present their programmes before the european elections and compete for the voters' trust. this legislation is an important step. but i want to say this is not a milestone, it's another step in the process. there are other steps to follow. what the commission has put forward is essentially what parliament has also called for. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i would like to say, commissioner, that the commission has not yet taken any action. we were disappointed that the commission had chosen the recast, i.e. the novella, as its medium. and in the discussions between the commission and parliament it is stated that in this parliament parliament is limited to addressing the matters where the commission has put its hand to the law and introduced changes. all other areas were taboo to us, so are the current rules. and i think it is extremely unsportsmanlike from a parliamentary point of view that the commission has chosen the path of recasting. this is not the cooperation with parliament that the commission promised when it took office. many of the requests concerned technical details. we have no quarrel at all. we had over 300 applications in all. most of the things are there to cut red tape, close loopholes, tighten sanctions and simplify procedures. i would like to make a few comments, however, which will no doubt prove very difficult in the future. we shall do so today, mr minister, and my co-rapporteur, mr goerens, will do so to ask for a mandate to enter into negotiations with the council. it doesn't take a prophet to tell you these negotiations aren't going to be easy. parliament and the parties attach importance to our being able to enter into political competition. and in my member state - i want to say this quite openly - when there are elections in lower saxony in a few weeks' time, it is quite natural that the parties, the party leaders, go to this federal state and there present political positions for their party in the respective state. this is perceived by some member states as a no-go, as indecent, as breaking the taboo, as interference. and this has not lost anything in a modern european party democracy. we may not reach an agreement on that, but we will have to fight for it. the epp group, if i may add, has another difficult point: we have seen with some grumbling that the own resources have been reduced from 10% to 5%. we went along for the sake of a package. but we have great concerns - i have always announced this in the negotiations - that in an election year, where the parties are always in danger of going down difficult roads, that in an election year this own contribution will be reduced to zero. we don't understand that, we're not going that way. and we want to show that in the votes. i would also like to thank all those who have contributed to these negotiations in good faith.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, in this house we are all members of a political party. in order to be able to represent his constituency, his country, here in strasbourg or in brussels, we were elected on the basis of a list, a programme, a common programme with the candidates from other countries. it is thanks to political parties that we are able to carry out these tasks, without which a pluralistic democracy would be unthinkable. we also want more democracy at european level. this presupposes the existence of a european demos. to those who claim that the european demos does not exist, i would like to share the reflection of one of my colleagues: "whether i am in paris, rome, warsaw or elsewhere in europe, the young people i meet dress the same, have common aspirations, often the same taste in music, aspire to freedom. something common is developing right before our eyes. common aspirations were also expressed at the conference on the future of europe. it is clear that political parties are indispensable in a world that is full of both opportunities and threats. politics, if it is to meet the expectations of citizens in terms of security, of combating the deterioration of the climate and our living conditions, of preserving our freedoms and values, will not succeed without taking account of the currents of thought which must be able to express themselves freely. our report is intended to facilitate the work of the parties. we want to make parties less dependent on external and private funding by increasing subsidies from the eu budget. we defend the parties in their freedom of thought and action. there is only one limit: that is where opinion ceases to be a mere opinion and becomes a crime. that is why we consider it essential to refer to the union's values in this text. we have common values, we are proud of them, but we do not have a monopoly on them. the council of europe member states have adopted virtually the same values as we do. we therefore want to open up the possibility for parties active in the council of europe member states to associate themselves with the european political parties of the european union. their representatives form political groups with their counterparts from the member states of the european union in the consultative assembly of the council of europe. why not let them join the political parties of the european union? political life is animated by competition between political parties. this competition must be fair. rules of transparency and equal treatment between parties are essential. a special authority therefore ensures that the rules laid down for this purpose are respected. i would like to thank all those who have helped to make this work possible. i think of my assistants, yves hoffmann and jessica simoes, and of the co-correspondent, rainer wieland, and his assistant, angela, who were always willing to compromise sooner or later. today's vote is not the end of this year. a rather complicated negotiation with the council will start as soon as next week, if you give us the mandate to do so. if you want us to approach this trilogue from a position of strength, i am sure you will vote overwhelmingly in favour of the position set out in this report.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it is my pleasure to continue our discussion on this important file. in the current geopolitical context, it is our collective duty to reaffirm our commitment to democratic values and to preserve an open democratic debate. european political parties and the foundations linked to them fulfil an essential role in a representative european democracy, as we already heard in both the contributions of mr wieland and mr goerens. they create a direct link between the citizens and the political system. today, european political parties and foundations, however, face a number of operational difficulties. the proposal we have put forward intends to strike a fine balance between, on the one hand, giving more possibilities to european political parties and foundations to fulfil their role in building and nourishing european political space, and on the other hand, making sure that their action is free from undue interferences and that they use the european funding in the best possible way. the commission welcomes parliament’s report and its support for the main and most innovative elements of the commission’s legislative proposal. the commission also notes the level of ambition demonstrated by the additional amendments tabled. the commission will carefully assess the proposals made by parliament, for example on membership definition, on a new category of association fees, on the possibility for european political parties to finance national referendum campaigns, or on the threshold of the due diligence mechanism, as well as on the verification mechanism for compliance. the aim of the commission is to improve the quality and the adequacy of the current legal framework in order to facilitate the best outcome possible for eu citizens and eu democracy. let me react to the question or comment of mr wieland on why we chose the recast technique for this proposal. i would like to recall that the recast is a legal technique used to replace an earlier act which was previously amended, in order to consolidate and simplify the text. this is precisely the case with the latest revision of regulation no 1141/2014 on the statute and funding of european political parties and foundations. following the two previous revisions from 2018 and 2019, and given the necessity to update language, obsolete references and provisions, it was necessary to recast the regulation. we stand ready to restart institutional negotiations as soon as possible in view of having the new regulation adopted and in force in good time ahead of the next elections to the european parliament in may 2024, which has always been our mutually shared objective. and i myself am very committed to participating in the political dialogues. as always, the commission will play the role of an honest broker in the next steps of the legislative process.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam vice-president, a democracy cannot function without functioning political parties and movements. european democracy cannot be limited to 27 separate political spaces; it must be based on genuine european political parties, it must be strengthened in a transnational political space. to this end, european political parties must become real parties and be able to make real politics. that's why we have to change the rules. it is absurd, for example, that a european party cannot take part in a debate in a national referendum on the future of the union, as happened with brexit. it is necessary to strengthen their budgetary autonomy. more transparency is imperative. these are questions of credibility and these are questions of political responsibility. this also corresponds to the demands of citizens at the conference on the future of europe. the objectives of this report, for which i am very grateful to the two co-rapporteurs, charles goerens and rainer wieland, are also part of a wider strategy for democracy and politics, because we must be able to vote directly for european parties through the transnational list in order to strengthen their democratic legitimacy and we must fight against disinformation and foreign interference, in particular, but not only, with new rules on political advertising to protect our democracies. and we have to move fast. in the 2024 european elections, thanks to these reforms, we must increase the choice of citizens in a new democratic space that is more efficient, more transparent and, above all, more european.
for the greens/efa group madam president, should european political parties and european foundations be exempt from the rules we demand from the rest of the world in terms of transparency and in terms of gender equality? there is a lot of talk about foreign interference and the interference that could take place, especially through the parties and the money given to them. and yet it has been very difficult in these texts to go much further on transparency on these issues. and european political parties will be able to hide for a long time most of the large sums they receive from private donors. but it was on the issue of gender equality and the accompaniment of women in politics that the debate was most complicated. in three years in this house, i have never encountered such a refusal to discuss these matters. we have not been able to make any progress on any of these issues and so we are going to have european political parties that can continue to have 100% male boards while we are asking companies not to do so. we are going to have european political parties that will be able to continue to practice moral or sexual harassment without putting in place prevention mechanisms, without thinking about it, without working on it within their party. we will also have european political parties that can continue to ignore the low representation of women in politics, not to ask themselves how this could be changed, to accompany women, train them and work with them to make them more represented, especially in countries where the rules do not require women to be on the lists. it was a bit sad to come to this and it seems to me that for some of my colleagues, political parties will remain for a long time the most important centre of conservatism. and it's ineffective because when our political parties and our parliamentarians are so out of step with society and the people, well our public policies are also ineffective.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the goerens and wieland report seeks to strengthen the role of european political parties. the aim is to make it easier for them to participate in european campaigns and national campaigns on european themes. i am of course opposed to it, because it would be an additional means of spreading europeanist propaganda in the midst of national electoral campaigns. the report makes no secret of this, since it states that it wants to contribute to the creation of a european political area. in addition to the millions of euros that would be wasted in this venture, the company would have the disadvantage of reviving the project of creating transnational lists, since each transnational list would be intended to be supported by a european political party. in theory, nationalist movements like the rn and its allies could at least defend themselves by forming their own european political parties. but in practice, they would be prevented from doing so sooner or later, since the report already suspects them of being corrupted by putin. the tool of ideological censorship is already in place with the controlling authority. after democracy without a people, the european union is inventing one-way electoral competition. i'm not fooled by your schemes. in the face of the oligarchic and anti-national offensive you support, i call for the abolition of european political parties, the banning of transnational lists and the organisation in each member state of a referendum on the transformation of the union into a federal state.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, this report contains a number of good proposals, but it also contains a number of far-reaching proposals which aim at drastically and illegitimately capturing the political and democratic sphere of member states under the pretence of so-called europeanisation, in a way which is against the subsidiarity and proportionality principles enshrined in the treaties. let me give you just three examples of the most striking provisions which render this project unacceptable in its current form for the ecr group. firstly, allowing association fees from members, parties and member organisations located outside of the european union, but inside the council of europe, poses a serious and a real risk of foreign interference. remember that until yesterday russia was a member of the council of europe. secondly, the draft report proposes increased monitoring and a system of sanctions for non-compliance with the regulation, especially with regard to respecting the union’s fundamental values such as the rule of law. it also includes new requirements for member parties, such as to publish information on gender representation. there should not be any explicit link between the financing of parties and foundations and article 2 treaty values, and through control thereof, which could lead to sanctions. the objectivity and criteria of such mechanisms are highly unclear and doubtful. we are now observing the so-called eu values being used for purely instrumental and political purposes by the eu institutions to punish those who dare to have a different vision of the eu, which in itself is a contradiction of the democratic principles. the third appalling part of this report is a proposal to allow eu parties to finance campaigns on national referendums that deal with european issues and this will encroach upon the competence of the member states in contradiction with article 5 of the treaty. the council and the court of auditors have already expressed serious concerns on possible financing of national referendums and contributions from the outside. in this sense, this report reflects the ongoing process of introducing a more centralised and oligarchic european union at the cost of sovereign member states and the democratic rights of the citizens.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. for years, european political parties and foundations have been actively involved in shaping european democracy. the challenges to which our policy choices must be measured are great. it is therefore all the more important that the institutional framework which we are filling with political content be endowed with the confidence of the european citizens. the role of political parties and foundations as discourse-spreading structures should therefore not be underestimated. the revision of the legislation takes account of the experience and problems of recent years. the rapporteurs have spoken about this. and we are directing modernization above all towards the necessary strengthening of the financial and organizational capacity of parties and foundations, towards greater transparency. and the demands for intra-party democracy are of particular concern to us on the left in this legislative framework. if we have sufficient access to information on political actors, citizens will be able to make an informed decision. and for us, too, participation in democracy is an important aspect. we would also have liked, as mrs delbos-corfield has stressed, to have included gender equality as a more consistent, stringent measure. and an important part of the decision to be a citizen is the awareness of one's own citizenship of the union, and therefore the intertwining of national and european democracy. and i very much welcome the greater visibility of european parties in the future framework. we have a great task to perform in this respect, and yesterday the tasks to be performed in the present time were mentioned again, particularly with regard to foundations and parties.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we already knew that the european union, following the example of the soviet union, had adopted the brezhnev principle of limited sovereignty, that is to say that the satellite states of the ussr were free to apply the marxist doctrine, but they were not free to depart from it. the european union, through this implausible report on european political parties, adds the concept of limited democracy. how can we accept, in a so-called democratic space, that a so-called administrative authority, without any legitimacy, can determine which parties will be eligible, particularly in financial terms, for the status of a european political party? what does this absolute reference to the values of the european union mean? is this your way of banning political movements, after nations such as hungary and poland, especially those which have a very strong popular base and strong electoral legitimacy and which do not subscribe to your globalist, immigrationist and destructive ideology of our european civilization? for our part, we will remain faithful to the principles laid down in the french constitution, as general de gaulle wanted, and i quote him: 'political parties and groups shall participate in the exercise of the right to vote. they are formed and operate freely and must respect the principles of national sovereignty and democracy. indeed, national sovereignty and democracy are two concepts that are completely foreign to you. the european union, which is acting as an enemy of freedom, is increasingly seeking to control the private minds of its citizens. this text is the most revealing element. in your sectarianism, you deny legitimacy to opinions that differ from yours. but tell me, democracy, are you afraid of it? (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by mr glinne)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. mr lacapelle, thank you very much for the opportunity to ask the interim question. i am surprised at the weight of the arguments you are making here. would you be able to tell me why your group did not appoint a shadow rapporteur for the shadow rapporteurs' meetings and did not take the opportunity to name someone to whom you would make the arguments you are making here in the preparation of this important legislation?
the answer is 'blue card'. dear sir, well simply because it's no use. when we send our fictional reporters, they're not listened to. democracy, after all, does not work in this type of committee. so they preferred to abstain, dear sir, rather than participate in this hypocritical clown act that is being practised by this european union.
madam president! i understand that the aim of this report is to bring about greater transparency and democracy in the funding and operation of european parties and foundations. but my colleagues have already explained why we can't support it. we cannot support this because it is of course also interference in the activities of the party at the level of nation states and the states want to build european democracy and at the same time weaken democracy where it really exists, in our countries. hence the reference to european values. but it is not about european values, because we have no problem with european values, but with what is called deutungshoheit in german. who will interpret these values? for some, human dignity is euthanasia and abortion. not for us. for some, gerhard schröder's spd and andrei babis's ano are in line with european values, but not for us. so either we allow for a discussion of values, or we want to have censorship and control of the political process.
madam president! the proposal on the operation and financing of european parties and party foundations undermines the foundations of european democracy and infringes the fundamental conditions of the rule of law. the european union's strongest democratic legitimacy component is still the free, majority-based elections held in the member states with the participation of national parties. the over-expansion of the eu bureaucracy and the interference in the electoral system of the eu member states, the fact that the european parliament would be subordinated to a committee outside its own administration, the fact that national parties, which are the basic pillar of democracy, can exist and operate in the member states. on this basis, the european parliament could even remove parties it does not like from political life. we cannot support the motion in its present form.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, announced a major pact for the defence of democracy here yesterday. this is what we have been asking for in the special committee on foreign interference for a long time. it is urgent to take stock of the danger and strengthen our democracies. this text is part of it. european political parties and european foundations are key players in our democratic life and as such i am pleased that the review of their status and funding aims to ensure their better visibility, simplify administrative procedures and facilitate their participation in certain national campaigns. however, i should like to draw your attention to one specific point: the possibility of financing through contributions from council of europe member countries is problematic. it puts the european union in a position of dependence on other institutions and sends a dangerous signal to the member states, which we ask to revise their electoral law to prohibit foreign funding of political life. so be careful and alert.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, first of all, let me thank the rapporteur mr berendsen but also the imco rapporteur, ms carvalho, and colleagues in imco for the good cooperation we had. i am glad that the european parliament will call for developing a more resilient, sustainable and also efficient single market that can better tackle supply disruptions on critical products such as food or pharmaceuticals. a resilient single market prevents over—dependency in energy and raw materials. for the socialists and democrats group, it is also important that we call for an ambitious single market emergency instrument to ensure the resilience of the single market in a time of crisis. at the same time, i also have to underline that this should not undermine the effort to improve the single market in non-crisis contexts. we also underline the need to accelerate the green and the digital transition and we highlight the importance of public procurement which reflects economic, social and environmental considerations to support the twin transition. and finally, of course, we did not forget to mention the importance of investing in innovation, research and development, and to address the skills mismatch, gender gap and precarious working conditions.
madam president, for too long we have neglected our european industry and have watched our companies migrate to distant countries. many of our citizens blame europe for allowing this to happen and, worse, for encouraging it. commissioner, it is time to address the problem of the loss of european industrial sovereignty, which has seriously crippled our continent during the coronavirus crisis. it is time to go further in reducing our strategic dependencies. some of the commission's actions are in the right direction, particularly with regard to semiconductors and energy, especially as our industry is beginning to slow down production to save energy. but we must move faster and stronger and, above all, we must make more money available, with specific appropriations, in the future revision of the multiannual financial framework. finally, we could check, for any new law, that it does not strengthen our dependencies and that it does strengthen our industry, so essential to the future of our fellow citizens.
i'm the reporter. madam president, madam commissioner dear stella dear colleagues for those of you who have stayed the covid-19 crisis has shown our extraordinary health vulnerability. in 2020, our national health systems found themselves overwhelmed, and this impotence first pushed them into national protective reflexes. we say: never again! the temptation to withdraw into oneself was soon replaced by european solidarity and coordination. we must now draw inspiration from this remarkable but urgently improvised reaction. after long months of negotiations, which have finally been fruitful, i am proud, as rapporteur, to present to you here the strengths we have defended in order to learn from the past and to make this regulation a genuine european health emergency plan. this is a concept which deserves your attention, or at least your respect. we are stronger together, and together we must build a europe of health that is united, coordinated, independent and sustainable. a europe of health in solidarity by tackling health inequalities within the union through cooperation between member states, by strengthening collaboration with third countries, especially the poorest, and by consolidating global cooperation, notably through the international treaty on pandemics. a coordinated europe of health: coordinated in collecting and sharing data that have often been lacking , coordinated in preparing for all health threats by integrating the principle of global health as well as the principle of prevention and health education into all european policies , coordinated to better prepare for and anticipate the impact of a health crisis on people with chronic diseases and i am thinking in particular of the many collateral victims among cancer patients , finally coordinated in combating the scourge of misinformation by relying on the cdc as a relay of scientifically verified information. an independent europe of health in medicines: we have imposed more transparency vis-à-vis the european parliament and citizens in the development of joint purchasing contracts, we have integrated the notion of an exclusivity clause to prevent parallel negotiations with industry and to ensure equitable access to medicines for all european citizens, we ask that the era health authority be given the means to better coordinate with the authorities and we propose an evaluation of these actions to determine whether or not it should become a separate entity. a sustainable europe of health, with the creation of an independent scientific council, the introduction of provisions on the absence of conflicts of interest of experts, the consultation of all other stakeholders (non-governmental organisations, health professionals, etc.) as well as industry, the strengthening of the role of parliament and thus of citizen representation and the involvement of regional authorities with a view to promoting cooperation in cross-border regions. these major advances would not have been possible without the mobilisation of my dear co-rapporteurs - a 100% female team! they were anything but fictional. i would like to extend a warm welcome to them and their teams before i let them speak.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, there is a certain irony in pleading for more and more from the european union when, precisely, the european union has proven that it is incapable of doing better on certain issues, and in particular here on the covid-19 crisis and health. please note that in the covid-19 crisis, the most appropriate, fastest and most effective responses have been local solutions. the european union has also been involved in the development of the european union's health policy, and has been involved in the implementation of the un convention on the rights of the child (uncrc) since its inception. you care about serious crossborder health threats: start by putting borders back in place - this is a first prevention - and make sure that the european union doesn't waste its time relocating the pharmaceutical industry. indeed, how can we not be concerned that 80% of the active ingredients in our medicines come from india or china? let the states manage their health systems and instead make the european union a tool for strengthening our drug independence and these agencies of joint research clusters whose purpose is to create, to advance together, and not to flip the member states.
i'm the reporter. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you have said, this legislative proposal and the revision of the mandates of the ema and the ecdc are a major contribution to the europe of health which we have been building step by step since the beginning of this mandate. i would like to greet once again our negotiating team, dear esther, sarah, margrete, johanna and katerina. we have defended this regulation under the rather obscure title 'serious crossborder threats to health' in order to make it a genuine european response plan to health emergencies. with this agreement, we are responding to the 74% of european citizens who want more european competence in health and crisis management. this construction, dear stella, will continue with the revision of pharmaceutical legislation, by which we will, and we will, move towards a genuine europe of medicines. but these legislative changes are only the beginning. our project will be continued in the framework of a future convention on the revision of the european treaties and we are pleased that the commission, which i also thank for its support during this trilogue, is once again ready to take up this challenge. ladies and gentlemen, by voting tomorrow you can convince the member states of the relevance of a genuine european health policy, beyond the strains on national prerogatives which have shown all their limits and even their deleterious effects. health should no longer be seen as a cost, but as a sustainable investment in the well-being and better living of european citizens. so, on their behalf, i thank you for your support.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally had a debate and a resolution on the ocean! the european union must build on its maritime dimension, engage a blue pact within the green pact, and make it a force to carry its values across the world. it is urgent: all the extreme weather events we know of are fuelled by the warming of the deep ocean - a direct consequence of global warming, with sea level rise and acidification. to continue to feed humanity, but also to develop the economies of coastal regions, where 80% of the world's population will be concentrated by 2050, we must urgently speed up its restoration. it is a matter of survival, especially for europe's outermost regions, which ensure its maritime dimension. regenerating this 'hydrosphere' - the oceans, seas and rivers - as the starfish mission calls it, requires converging all european policies - biodiversity, climate, energy, transport, water, waste treatment - and better coordinating governance. as we explore the ocean, we discover all its riches for humanity: a reservoir of multiple resources - energy, genetic, mineral - the same ones that are dwindling on earth. but let us not make the same mistakes at sea that we made on land. the movement of the major international conferences in 2022 is aimed at providing a framework: a sustainable future with the ocean, and the european union and the member states are negotiating the future of the planet. parliament must take up this matter. there is only one ocean: it is our common good, and it is our individual and collective responsibility to preserve it. it is an instrument for peace and for multilateralism. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the extent to which the european union is prepared to take action in this area. that will be my challenge, commissioner, for the ocean.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, it has been said, illegal fishing, piracy, protection of marine systems, the blue economy is both one of the great challenges of the 21st century, but also a focus of innovation towards a new sea economy. in the face of rising tensions on the oceans, france, the world's second largest maritime domain - is it worth mentioning here? - will be at the forefront of confronting these major crises, especially in the indian and pacific oceans, the new economic centre of the world of tomorrow. some countries, like india, are just asking for more cooperation with us. these closer international cooperation in the indo-pacific is necessary because the challenges are common. with france, and thanks to france, europe will have its full share in this new economy.
on behalf of the left-fraktion. mr president, seas and oceans are essential to life on earth. and yet we use the ocean as a dumping ground, as a hunting ground, as an industrial site, and we drill to the bottom of the ocean for gas and oil. what action is the european commission taking to bring about the swift and successful adaptation of the global convention for the protection of international waters? how far has the commission come with its proposals to finally protect at least 30% of the seas in europe and, of course, preferably beyond? i would also like to draw attention to the whales. since 1986, there has been a worldwide ban on whaling. despite this ban, norway, japan, the faroe islands in denmark and, unfortunately, iceland this year, are still hunting whales. that's cruel and irresponsible. whales (and their poop) are crucial to the ecosystem and indispensable in the fight against climate change. the european parliament therefore reiterates its call on norway, japan, but also on iceland and the faeroe islands, to put an end to whaling and dolphin hunting once and for all. is the commission prepared to support this call and to address these countries, including iceland, on this? i also believe that european agricultural and fisheries subsidies should be abolished.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally having a discussion on the european union's ocean strategy! and you said it, ladies and gentlemen: it was time! the european union is the world's first exclusive economic zone and it must now assume this responsibility: it is legitimate to act. the negotiations on the text we are discussing together, these long negotiations, have made it possible to show clearly that we are not afraid to face our differences. some would like to protect life and the environment by increasing the constraints on those who work at sea, especially in our european countries, to the point of making any human effort connected with the sea and the ocean impossible. we have even heard some say that the decline of european fisheries, for example, would be good news. this is not to understand that the main environmental challenge today is not to over-regulate the activities of european professionals - who already meet the highest standards in the world - but to ensure that other world powers share our common responsibility. the text needs to reaffirm the imperative of fighting illegal fishing worldwide, the need to implement a determined plan against plastic pollution and to advance research on the still largely unknown world of the ocean. in the end, we will not get out of the environmental challenge with less effort and work. we will only get through this with more science, more research, more commitment from people to protect this common heritage.
madam president, i would like to take this brief opportunity to congratulate all those who are actively involved in this important work. the health of the oceans and their biodiversity is essential to life, we already know, as well as to the long-term sustainability of the different sectors of the blue economy. from contributing to the food security of millions of people, to providing renewable energy and mineral resources, to creating jobs in coastal communities, the oceans are a source of life and also of immense wealth. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. it is essential to ensure that the european union fleet is granted harmonised rules, regardless of the geographical area in which it operates, and the conditions of fair competition for all fleets operating under international conventions must not be forgotten. in conclusion, this means that there must also be a continuous effort to ensure that the conservation and management measures adopted under the various regional conventions are as close as possible to the ambitious objectives of the common fisheries policy, as a way of extending the language of ocean sustainability to all latitudes.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 2022 is indeed a year dedicated to the oceans and so this resolution is timely. it started in brest with the one ocean summit, it continued in lisbon with the united nations conference, we can talk about sharm el-sheikh too, and then the cop-15 that will be held in canada on biodiversity, all of these elements that come together to make the year 2022 a great year of the ocean. and then 2022 for europe is the european year of youth. i would like to take a few examples. 120 ambassadors from the oceans were gathered in la rochelle for the french presidency. they talked about the future of training, about a maritime erasmus+. i also want to talk about this excellent initiative of the european commission from 2020, youth for ocean, as part of the eu for ocean coalition. well, this initiative flourished and they were in lisbon, these young ambassadors of this initiative, to speak to world leaders. and so, as you can see, europe is giving these young people the opportunity to take up the issue of the oceans. so as 2022 is a big year for the ocean, 2022 is the european year of youth, and i would like this resolution to be dedicated to those young people. let us give them the key to our oceans, because the oceans, like the young people, are our future, they are the future of europe.
madam president, the oceans are in a state of emergency. despite these words from the secretary-general of the united nations, we are doing too little to address the climate crisis, the crisis of life that is hitting the oceans. worse, a new threat is emerging - the exploitation of the deep sea. the mining industry and some governments are pressing and wanting to be the first to get their hands on the precious minerals that abound in the oceans. but scientists warn that this activity will cause irreversible damage to the functioning of marine ecosystems for generations to come and will worsen the climate crisis. the european commission and parliament have taken a strong stand against the mining of large deposits. an appeal for a moratorium has already been signed by 250 parliamentarians from more than 50 countries. the member states of the european union must take a clear position in favour of a moratorium on the mining of the great deposits. the french government's position on this matter remains ambiguous. our responsibility is to stop this mad race for the oceans and for our future generations.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a very good report to support aquaculture. i would like to thank in particular our colleague, mrs clara aguilera, for the work she has done in coordinating our work. supporting aquaculture is a commitment that was expected by a sector that continues to pass on a heritage, a know-how that has been nurtured for centuries, that has constantly reinvented itself, but to which we owe the shaping of our landscapes, the balancing of our ecosystems. it is also an absolutely essential commitment to improve the food resilience of european countries. today, 70 percent of the world's seafood and freshwater products are imported. and if we don't want to endanger wild fish, then we need to increase our production by supporting aquaculture. this requires a political will that is sustainable. we need confidence in this sector and finally a comprehensive strategy for the protection of ecosystems. we will talk a lot about the cormorant, because the cormorant has been successfully protected for decades by the european union. but today, this bird, which has no predators, is doing well. it has become sedentary and is now itself endangering endangered fish species. it also jeopardizes the balance of the whole industry. finally, we must review this protection under the habitats directive if we are to allow aquaculture to develop in the long term. it is restoring an ecosystem, it is really caring for our environment and nature to bring this absolutely necessary debate to the table.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, sustainable aquaculture is aquaculture that respects the environment, human health and food safety. so it is far from the paradigms of intensive farming. sustainability is achieved through the promotion of low-impact, circular practices such as low-trophic, multi-trophic and organic aquaculture. sustainable aquaculture is one that ensures that the production of feed does not have a negative impact on the food security of third countries. finally, the request to exclude cormorants from the list of species protected by the birds directive is unacceptable. instead, action needs to be taken at local level, refining existing solutions to enable the sector to deal with any problems. let us invest in research, including with the money from the emff, and in helping those involved in the sector, instead of hunting down the species, which would have very serious consequences for biodiversity.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, when it comes to aquaculture and fish farming, the european union meets only 30% of its needs with its own production. i support this report because it is aimed at increasing that production and i am pleased that all my amendments have been accepted by the committee. the committee also heard from some representatives who were not sure whether the purpose of the aquarium was to feed cormorants or to create a large aquarium in which the fish would live as long and as happily as possible and eventually die of old age. fortunately, we have concluded that the purpose of the aquarium is to produce food for humans. european countries have become accustomed to cheap fish, to buying fish from third countries, but so has energy, and we are now paying for that recklessness. so we have to think about self-sufficiency and strengthen domestic food production.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). as in land-based mega-stables, animals in fish farms with many at once are confined to too small spaces. like in land mega-stables, fish farms are kept in such a way that they cannot exhibit their natural behaviour and their lives are one big misery. as in land-based mega-stables, the crowding together of large numbers of animals in fish farms leads to environmental pollution, disease and overuse of antibiotics. fish farming is also far from sustainable. the african coast is being literally fished to provide our fish farms in europe and elsewhere in the world with fishmeal. to raise one salmon in such a fish farm, 350 wild-caught fish are needed. a spanish company even wants to open the world's first-ever octopus farm next year: a disaster for animal welfare and an environmental disaster, scientists warn. but despite all these disastrous effects on man, animals and the environment, here in strasbourg we are advocating a strong growth in the number of fish farms in europe. the party for the animals wants to prevent us from making the same mistake as in the cattle industry. that is why we shall vote against this report.
madam president, first of all, i wish commissioner sinkevičius a speedy recovery. the fight for sustainable and competitive aquaculture in the european union is the way forward. aquaculture provides consumers with sustainable and high-quality products. however, although aquaculture is growing at a steady rate worldwide, it has not yet reached its full potential in the european union. the development of aquaculture in the european union is stagnating and we need to give it a boost. our group is concerned, very much so. the pp led a report on aquaculture that proposed ninety-two actions, among others, simplifying administrative procedures, ensuring equity in interaction with other sectors, improving the competitiveness of aquaculture within and beyond our borders, improving consumer information, conducting better promotion and communication campaigns, supporting research and innovation, and ensuring adequate information. these are fundamental elements and the report we are voting on tomorrow calls on the commission to work closely with the member states to implement these actions. let's do it like this. gestures matter too, and we were able to include aquaculture in the european maritime and fisheries fund. that was important, too.
madam president, as we know, in recent years aquaculture has grown dramatically in other parts of the world, while european production is stagnating. aquaculture in the european union accounts for less than 2% of world production. the scarcity of european production means that the member states have to import seafood, which is not always of our quality. as the report we are discussing today reminds us, the european union imports more than 70% of the seafood it consumes. an unacceptable balance in a continent so turned to the sea. and there are people in this house, in this parliament, who are still committed to increasing those imports. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs clara aguilera, on a report which correctly sums up the main problems and challenges facing european aquaculture, proposes solutions to tackle them, and rightly advocates innovation and the breeding of new species in aquaculture. the report also stresses the need for member states to ensure legal certainty for investments in the sector. finally, as a galician member of parliament, i am particularly pleased that the report highlights the protected designation of origin 'mejillón de galicia' as an example of quality.
madam president, aquaculture is often presented as the solution to limiting overfishing while maintaining or even increasing our fish consumption. but truly sustainable forms of aquaculture are rare. aquaculture is not sustainable when, to feed carnivorous species, fish meal is imported, which endangers the food security of several african countries. aquaculture is not sustainable when it threatens fishermen and marine ecosystems in the middle of natura 2000 sites, as is the case with the mega aquaculture farm in golfe-juan. it is not sustainable when animals are crowded into it by the hundreds, with no density limit, forced to behave against their nature. it is not sustainable when it uses painful killing techniques such as asphyxiation or ice casting, when alternatives exist. and finally, aquaculture is not sustainable, it's cruel when it plans to raise octopuses, such sensitive and intelligent creatures. the commission should therefore be more cautious about the development of aquaculture and take advantage of the forthcoming regulations to set a protective framework.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the very interesting debate tonight and for the interventions and comments. i would like to say a couple of words to address some of the issues you have raised. of course, it is important to use sustainable feed ingredients in eu aquaculture. this is an important aspect of the environmental performance of aquaculture, as mentioned in the commission’s strategic guidelines. these guidelines propose the development of a guidance document on environmental performance that includes the mapping of good practices at government and industry level. it should also cover the use of sustainable feed. then, the organic production action plan, which was adopted in 2021, provides for access to further promote the growth of organic aquaculture in the eu. among these actions, the commission would identify and address, as appropriate, any specific obstacles to the growth of eu organic aquaculture. the work is ongoing. we are consulting with national experts on these obstacles. then, in our strategic guidelines, we recognise that the administrative burden is a major obstacle that still needs to be addressed to attract investment to establish new aquaculture facilities. the guidelines provide concrete recommendations in this area. in addition, as part of the implementation of its strategic guidelines, the commission will develop a guidance document gathering best practices to serve as a reference for the necessary changes in this respect in member states. to conclude, let me also mention that the commission is now preparing an eu-wide communication campaign on eu aquaculture to promote awareness among consumers. very recently, we held a joint event with the committee of the regions, dedicated to the regional authorities, which are often in charge of licensing and regulating aquaculture in the member states. the message is clear: by implementing the commission’s strategic guidelines, we have a unique opportunity to promote the sustainable growth and competitiveness of eu aquaculture and maximise its contribution towards making the european green deal a success.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank the commission for its sensitivity in recognising what are at present real obstacles: access to space and procedures. the commission's work will therefore contribute to improving these issues. i would also like to acknowledge that administrative obstacles are a real problem for this sector. of course, not the commission's problems, but those of all the parties involved (national, regional and local institutions). i therefore welcome these aspects and this campaign, which i hope will also promote sustainable aquaculture products, because it is really worthwhile. i would point out that when we say that the european organic production regulation is not enough, it is because, at the moment, with that regulation, which we have adopted and which has entered into force this year - it is very recent, of course - it is only possible to certify the rearing of molluscs as organic, under very strict conditions. only you. that's all i know. it's not possible any more. why is that? because the european organic production regulation has not looked at this sector at all, but has ignored it. he has turned a blind eye, and therefore the rules are not applicable now. it is true that it is a new regulation, but it will have to be improved over time, of course. we have seen here both those who believe that aquaculture is a future element and those who do not. and whoever doesn't believe it, we're not going to ask for much contribution either, because he wants to destroy it. i want it to be competitive, to be more sustainable. i would also like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i want the 70% we are now buying in thailand and vietnam to be bought in the european union, because the standards of europe will never be those of these third countries. and let us not be mistaken about the cormorants: the birds directive is very good, but here everything is discussed, and everything can be improved. let us not make certain rules untouchable. let's open our minds and see that there is a problem here and that solutions must be sought. that is all we ask of the commission: solutions to the cormorant problem.
that concludes the debate. the vote will be held tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the report by lídia pereira, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the impact of new technologies on taxation: crypto and blockchain (2021/2201(ini)) (a9-0204/2022).
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you. honourable members, i want to thank you on behalf of commissioner gentiloni for your report on the impact of new technologies (including crypto and blockchain) on taxation. let me particularly thank the rapporteur, madam pereira, for the excellent work and for the opportunity to discuss this very important topic with you. let me start with some remarks linked to the challenges of rapid digitalisation in the area of taxation, in particular linked to the growth of crypto-assets. as you underline in your report, these are difficult to classify, value and administer. this poses a challenge to tax administrators seeking to tax them fairly and effectively. they often do this through administrative guidance, but some member states have dedicated tax rules. most member states try to align the tax treatment of crypto-assets with that of comparable assets, while some member states have a separate regime or rate for these. the eu should facilitate and foster the sharing of best practices among member states in this area. then, a proposal to further revise the directive on administrative cooperation to reflect the new reality of crypto-assets is under preparation. it aims to put crypto-asset service providers in a similar position to providers of traditional financial services. the directive will also close the loophole for avoiding tax through the use of crypto-assets by ensuring that tax administrations have the information they need to tax these assets according to their tax rules. blockchain technology. now, your report mentions the role of technology in ensuring tax fairness and compliance. we are convinced of the potential of crypto and blockchain technology to build a new generation of decentralised trans-european systems in the area of taxation, as well as in customs. the commission’s services have been studying blockchain technology since 2017. two successful proofs of concept with blockchain have been concluded since then. eight member states were involved in the last of these two pilots. we are assessing the feasibility of using ebsi as a platform for this new generation of trans-european systems. yet we are cautious to make sure that such innovative solutions do not fall short of expectations, meet the legal requirements – such as the gdpr – and are fully supportable and maintainable in the long run. all this is being done under the fiscalis programme. finally, the use of new technologies in the fight against tax fraud and evasion in the digital economy calls for capable tax administration staff. to this end, appropriate training and best practice sharing between the european tax administrations can only be beneficial. at their annual eu gathering (the ‘tadeus’ event), their heads discussed what common projects they foresee in the area of digitalisation. honourable members, let me conclude my introductory remarks here. i am looking forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, we all agree that the global economy is changing and that its progressive digitisation is bringing new challenges that the european union and its member states must address in a coherent and coordinated way. the principles of the current tax framework are progressively outdated and do not ensure fair, transparent and harmonised taxation of crypto-currency and blockchain activities, which, given their exponential growth, risk disrupting the internal market. i thank the rapporteur for a resolution that properly addresses the various aspects, although in my view the environmental impact of the production of cryptocurrencies, which requires a significant amount of energy and therefore carbon emissions to carry out the control and encryption of data, should also be taken into account in the definition of an updated tax framework. just think, for example, that the bitcoin blockchain consumes more energy in a year than italy. the creation of a clear and transparent regulatory framework with fair taxation, which also takes into account the environmental impact of blockchain activity and ensures fair competition between companies, especially protecting the smaller ones, is therefore a good thing.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think we cannot pretend that nothing has happened this summer either. then we'll refresh each other's memories. three arrow capital, a fund specializing in crypto-assets, a $650 million bankruptcy, debts of up to $3.5 billion. the celsius platform, which promised returns of up to 18% with no guarantee of deposits from users, who were, according to them, blocked their accounts. the creator of terra, the famous stable coin, who was the pride of the crypto ecosystem, as it is called, who is also wanted today by the police, his stable coin self-destructed in just 24 hours. i could also tell you about scams of all kinds, where the creators of certain financial products go with the cashier, of harassment by phone to make small people buy products they know nothing about, of the fall of bitcoin or the abysmal loss of value of the crypto market as a whole. this is the crypto world today, a market that has sold itself as small versus big, weak versus powerful, david versus goliath, anti-banking, anti-government, anti-system, and that has caused some people to lose absolutely everything. so, as it stands, when you hear some in the industry - i say some and i apologize to the honest players because there are some, but they should also be heard a little more - the crypto world is the economic alternative what trump and bolsonaro are the political alternative: a world of alternate truth that claims to defend the weakest when in reality it manipulates them to defend private interests, that of the most powerful and the strongest. besides, when little people get their asses kicked, they get a laugh. that's some pretty amazing courage. so yes, they need to be regulated. yes, they must be taxed, of course, but above all to bring them back into the rule of law, simply into democracy. and i'm not even going to talk about the bottom, i just want to talk about the shape. i would like to thank my colleague lydia pereira, because we have absolutely different views on crypto, and we have worked in a responsible and respectful and compromise way. and we've come to a report that we're not ashamed of.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you are invoking religious freedom. i think that no one here would think of questioning this freedom, which is so essential to man. however, you are wrong when, under the pretext of a misguided inclusive policy, you promote the islamic veil - and i would even say the islamist veil - in all your institutional communication. women and even little girls are depicted veiled, as if they were to be reduced to mere objects of male lust. freedom cannot be used to promote a symbol of women's oppression, nor can it be used to flood public space with permanent demonstrations, even in dress. at a time when iranian women are standing up for their freedom, your indiscretion is going against women's emancipation. in france, which has historically been a country of terrible religious wars, we have found a just balance between the free exercise of religion and respect for the conscience of all: this is called secularism. you'd do well to take a cue from that.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, i want to thank you for this useful debate on this sensitive and important topic. as i said in my earlier statement, we need to be mindful of national competences for protecting freedom of religion or belief. the situation of freedom of religion or belief is alarming in many parts of the world, as we have heard, and is related, in many respects, to conflict situations and unacceptable instances of religious persecution. it is therefore crucial to work together at eu level, with the european parliament and the council to address these issues. the role of the special envoy for freedom of religion or belief is therefore very, very important in this context. the commission is currently assessing the options regarding the position of special envoy for freedom of religion or belief, and will shortly take a decision on his or her appointment.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members. commissioner, as i noted at the outset, the freedom of religion or belief concerns us all. its realisation is closely connected to all other human rights. the eu’s promotion and protection of the freedom of religion or belief can also support the eu’s other external action priorities. the engagement of the european parliament in the field of freedom of religion or belief worldwide is also essential. honourable members, we are approaching the 10th anniversary of the council’s adoption of the eu guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief. the eu guidelines continue to support the eu’s action in this field. they are used regularly in context with third countries and with international and civil society organisations. the implementation of the eu guidelines has been followed up regularly by the council’s working group on human rights. today’s discussion is part and parcel of the eu guidelines initial call for regular exchanges of views with the european parliament on their implementation, evaluation and review. we hope that the european parliament and the council will continue to work together to further strengthen the eu’s role in promoting and protecting the freedom of religion and belief worldwide.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – as a secular entity, the eu should by example and direct diplomatic action, give witness to its commitment to the freedom of religion and belief worldwide, similar to its commitment to democracy and fundamental human rights. internally it should guarantee – clearly to all – that its member states uphold in full this commitment to the free practice of all religions, so long these respect widely accepted norms of behaviour, by disallowing practices like genital mutilation and child marriage. the eu should communicate through political and diplomatic channels that it expects its partners to respect freedom of religion within their territory, not least for eu citizens. for countries that do not show such respect, and indeed create restrictions on the appropriate practice of their religious beliefs and practices by eu citizens resident there, the eu should interdict any initiative by such states meant to promote any religion within the eu. this without in any way, hindering the individual citizens of such states resident in the eu, from practising their religion.
the next item is the summary of the report by mr gabriel mato on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down management, conservation and control measures for the indian ocean tuna commission (iotc) and amending council regulations (ec) no 1936/2001, (ec) no 1984/2003 and (ec) no 520/2007 (com (2021) 0113 - c9-0095/2021 - 2021/0058 (cod)) - committee on fisheries (a9-0312/2021)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. there is a large european union fleet operating in this part of the world that is a world champion in sustainability and that also provides high quality nutritious fish protein to european union consumers, while bringing socioeconomic benefits to european union businesses and coastal communities, and contributing to the local economy and sustainable development of the fisheries sector in the area. the strategic importance of the european union's presence in third countries is therefore multifaceted: it benefits eu operators and consumers as well as sustainability and good governance of the oceans. the european union, through the commission, which i would like to commend here, is a leader in these international forums. when it comes to transposing into the european union the decisions taken in these international forums after long negotiations, the main problem for me and my group is to ensure that they are transposed as faithfully as possible in order to establish a level playing field for all operators fishing in the same area and marketing their products on the european union market. if the european union imposes stricter measures on its national fleet, the latter loses competitiveness vis-à-vis foreign operators. ensuring a level playing field, while promoting the eu's strong sustainability standards in regional fisheries management organisations and other international fora, is crucial for our operators and for improving international ocean governance. another point i would like to mention is the need to transpose the agreements of these organisations as quickly as possible. i think we're all committed to this. the key for me is to find the right balance between the need to go fast, but at the same time, to make things work well. firstly, i think we have to move forward at the stage where the commission is drawing up its proposal. in this respect, the commission's proposal sometimes reaches the co-legislators late. we must improve on this. the second area where we need to improve is the quality of the commission's proposal. the proposal often goes beyond what is decided in the regional fisheries management organisations. this is so, even though they don't like it very much that we remind them of it. but when you look at what has happened with the commission's implementing act closing down 87 areas, overstepping its powers and failing to take account of socioeconomic aspects in addition to environmental aspects, it is easy to see why we are more and more sceptical about giving the commission power. so yes to ambitious measures, yes to the rapid implementation of international agreements, but always seeking the right balance to ensure a level playing field for all operators and, in any case, always respecting the role of each institution in the decision-making process.
madam president, i would like to thank mr mato, the rapporteur. the situation in the indian ocean is very worrying, as the albacore tuna is on the verge of collapse. there are problems of illegal fishing and under-reporting in the region. there aren't enough mandatory inspections. so, faced with this situation, the european commission proposed an additional measure of common sense: an obligation to weigh the catches during transhipments, when transferring fish from one fishing vessel to another in ports in order to have more traceability. but under pressure from the industrial tuna fishermen, the member states opposed this on the grounds that it would create unfair rules of competition between european vessels and those from the indian ocean. this is a missed opportunity to take action for the oceans. this is worrying in a context where the fisheries control regulation is being negotiated and where member states and part of this parliament are asking for aberrant derogations for industrial tuna vessels.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs and commissioner, after more than a decade, we have finally got a universal charger for small electronic devices in europe! europe is still lagging behind when it comes to defending or protecting its citizens against the digital giants. we see this every day, as with the transfer of our personal data to the united states announced in march 2022 by mrs von der leyen and joe biden, or with this new european health data space managed by microsoft azure, this famous "data hub" that the anticor association had denounced by filing with the national financial prosecutor because the french government had chosen it without competing with european solutions. but let's get back to that detail: the loaders. indeed, it is ridiculous that consumers have to deal with all sorts of different charger cables. and i'm sure that everyone here has at some point found themselves unable to charge their cell phone because the right charging cable just wasn't available. that this situation has lasted this long is unacceptable. the mandatory requirement for manufacturers to offer a universal charger system is therefore a welcome development, although it has been too long overdue. in 2009, the european commissioner for industry had already asked manufacturers to agree on a common standard for smartphones; it's been 13 years. for more than a decade, members of the european parliament have been calling for decisive action by the commission; why did it take so long? were the exchange coins not important enough? the commission was probably aiming at self-regulation, and the industry would have continued to drag its feet in the meantime. this is another example of the failure of the dominant liberal mantra, which inspired the commission's naive belief in so-called 'self-regulation'. apple, for example, has single-handedly blocked efforts to impose legally binding measures for more than a decade; this was confirmed after publications under the european freedom of information act. this shows once again the immense power of foreign lobbying, in this case american, over the decision-making process in europe. and it works: amazon has just taken over the digital euro market. this is not the first time we have seen this phenomenon. it's part of a larger pattern. we believe that the market regulates itself, only to conclude decades later that it does not. i would remind you that earlier this year we approved the dma: once again we allowed the gafam to assume far too much power over our countries and our citizens. let this be a lesson for the future: instead of typical wait-and-see or complicit naivete, we must act decisively against large foreign companies if necessary.
madam president, finally: a decade of waiting and repeated requests from the european parliament, and here we are! i am pleased that the discussions on this issue of the universal charger have come to a positive conclusion, which is a clear step forward for european consumers. within two years, a universal usb-c charger will be mandatory for all mobile phones, but also - and again, thanks to the european parliament's ambition - for many other devices. this is in the interests of consumers, but also of the planet. in our capitalist system, overconsumption is encouraged, without limit: 57 million tons of e-waste in 2021, a large majority of which is not recycled. however, i point to the inaction of the public authorities for too long, but also to the responsibility of the big companies - apple and its partners - who, without scruples, continue to create obstacles to the repair and interoperability of these products, making billions of dollars in turnover on the backs of consumers. the planet cannot wait any longer, nor can the european consumers. i hope that consumers will no longer be the milk cows of this system and that this text will have a real impact on the abuses of companies.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all very pleased to say that we have won a great victory with this loader case. it took 12 years, but congratulations! what i would like to say is that this charger should not be the tree that hides the forest from the potential ecological disaster of the digital economic model as it is designed today. we will have to design a sustainable digital future in the coming weeks and months, which is not the case today. the charger wire example is a very small part of the iceberg that is visible. under this visible part, there is the enormity of the invisible, of what this digital, today, threatens with respect to the environment, but also the right to work and our fundamental freedoms. i hope that the european union will be innovative in designing a digital economic model that preserves the environment and, thank god, let's not take another fifteen years to solve this problem, we don't have time to wait that long!
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, i thank mr katrin for this ambitious and so necessary text for people with disabilities, since it will ultimately improve the daily lives of 87 million people with disabilities in europe. the resource centre promises better knowledge and expertise on disability, particularly on accessibility issues, which will help us to build a fairer society. i am pleased that the text contains my proposals on sufficient financial and human resources for the proper functioning of the centre and on the representation of persons with disabilities among the centre's staff, in order to strengthen its role towards the institutions and the member states or to include provisions on language accessibility for example. and let me say, ladies and gentlemen, that we must set an example here. where is international sign language in this chamber? where is it easy to read and understand in our texts? and even here: where is the accessibility for people with reduced mobility who would like to come and discuss the centre of this house? nowhere. accessibility is a cross-cutting issue, affecting all areas. pmr standards must be an important part of the design of objects, transport planning, public procurement rules and environmental risks. accessibility must therefore be synonymous with "no-to-me". i can therefore only hope that this report will be adopted, because disability and accessibility issues must be considered with people with disabilities. they must be at the centre of our public policies, whether at national or european level, because our values must be based on a fair society and respect for the fundamental rights of european citizens, and because, yes, i repeat, people with disabilities are citizens with rights. let us never forget that they too must have access to our texts, to what we say, just as they must have access to their daily lives, in complete autonomy.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the number of species affected is increasing worldwide. the existence of such a convention is therefore a good thing, and it should obviously be supported. it is still the case that sovereign states are best placed to act effectively; let's not get the scale wrong! even if some animal populations are stabilising or even increasing, in africa, thanks to protected areas and conservation policies put in place by states, the scourge of illegal trade threatens these efforts. but this is not the only threat: population pressure and the expansion of towns and villages are increasingly reducing the areas where animals live. and civil unrest, conflict, also contributes to this decline, especially when it's chronic. drought and water management problems are also causing the degradation of ecosystems. finally, the state of knowledge on the ground needs to be improved, the actual animal populations and the issues related to local communities need to be better assessed to increase efficiency, and, of course, the fight against poaching needs to be intensified.
madam president, this text must of course be welcomed, as it puts an end to the barbaric practices which are still in existence in 2022. how long have we waited, seeing species go extinct year after year with little or no emphasis on prevention tools? hunting trophies that pass through customs, trade in protected species, both animal and vegetable, are scandals that must not go unpunished. penalising groups and individuals is the only tool that can put an end to this situation. there must be firm rules and penalties which must be applied, in constant liaison with those who are most concerned on the ground: scientists, associations and politicians. however, even when the fighting is noble, the european commission remains an institution that has a horror of the sovereignty of our nations. this text gives prerogatives which once again encroach on the member states. but it is the states, here as on the continents affected by mass extinctions, that are the most democratic and, above all, the most just decision-making scales.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! the original purpose of the washington convention was to ensure that international trade in wild animals and plants did not threaten their survival. today, we know that survival is too modest an ambition, and we should ensure that animals are transported and kept in appropriate conditions to reduce their stress and suffering. that is why i welcome the text of the joint resolution on the panama conference. i think our voice should be strong and unambiguous. we must not only consolidate and unify the law against illegal trade, but also ensure that legal trade is monitored very precisely and that there is no breaking of the law. i would like to draw particular attention to the trade in wild animals and, above all, to the transport of live animals across the internal borders of the union. these boundaries have to be very clear and stable. there must be a control framework so that fraudulent traders can no longer use the lack of knowledge of different procedures as an excuse and abuse the administrative simplifications offered by the schengen area. the european union, which has among the highest standards of environmental protection and welfare, has a role to play as a teacher and promoter in relation to third countries.
madam president, madam commissioner, cop 19 is a strategic meeting for the protection of wildlife and the regulation of wildlife trade. the stakes are threefold. the first challenge, of course, is to preserve our biodiversity, and while the sixth mass extinction has already begun, species are dying off at an alarming rate. second, health, covid, rightly or wrongly, has put zoonotic diseases in the spotlight, and we need to protect ourselves from them. finally, the third issue is security, as wildlife trafficking is a major financial source for criminals and armed groups. cites, but also our european legislation, still has important weaknesses which, unfortunately, are exploited by traffickers. they must therefore be corrected. at european level, the review of the european union action plan should strengthen our action on wildlife trafficking. we need to reduce demand for illegal wildlife products, of course, but we also need to strengthen enforcement, which means improving our inspection and data collection capabilities. our customs and judicial authorities are on the front line against this traffic. we must give them the means to act, especially in the field of cybercrime. because, we know, some of that trade is now happening online.
mr president, sharks are essential to the ecosystem in our seas and oceans. but sadly, three-quarters of shark species are threatened with extinction, partly because of overfishing. the global shark population must not decline, because then our ecosystems will be shaken. so we have to protect the sharks. unfortunately, only 25% of the world's shark fin trade is properly managed. that is really not enough, we have to do more. it is therefore right that the european union and also the host country panama should want to protect fully both hammerhead and man-eating sharks at the forthcoming conference on trade in endangered species. the inclusion of these two shark species in the annexes to the cites convention will allow these populations to be managed sustainably and trade to continue. so there's plenty of room for trade, but there's also a lot of care that's taken to keep the populations going. we have to do that, because these species of sharks cannot go extinct!
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members. i’m grateful for your interventions today and for allowing us to have this very important debate. and i will try to reply briefly to some of the main comments which were made. with regard to the positive list for pets, the feasibility and advantages of establishing a positive list for exotic animals to be kept as pets needs to be carefully analysed as it is a complex issue, of course, cutting across animal welfare, human and animal health, trade and others, with potential implications in all of these areas. so the commission is ready to conduct a study to look into the issue. with regard to a regulation on the trade in wildlife, the commission keeps eu policies under review and is ready to explore the need for added value and feasibility of new legislative and policy initiatives to ensure that eu action against wildlife trafficking remains sufficiently strong and proportionate to the threat posed by wildlife trafficking and the experience in implementing existing legislation, based on the rules of the country of origin, such as the eu timber regulation or the us lacey act, would need to be considered. another question on whether the eu position on the cites scope is consistent with the biodiversity strategy. the commission assessed the proposals in relation to the listing criteria and the obligations in the convention, taking into account the precautionary principle. but ambition cannot be at the expense of not respecting the rules, of course. so the commission proposed to the council to oppose only eight of the 52 listing proposals, and four out of those eight are to reduce the controls on certain species. so these proposals clearly do not meet the criteria in the convention and the commission proposal is ambitious as it supports 35 out of the 52 listing proposals. for nine proposals, the available information was not enough to judge the scientific merits, and therefore we proposed an open position, and this is for reconsideration should additional information become available. whether the eu should support all the proposals by the range states. for scientists to function effectively and to remain relevant and implemented, it is necessary to ensure that the listing of species is based on the criteria foreseen in the convention, taking into account the best available scientific information, of course. but not all proposals by the range states fulfil these criteria. so in such cases, the eu is committed to supporting range states to address the concerns in other ways, using tools that are better adapted than those under cites, such as, for example, naturafrica – an extensive initiative that will support biodiversity conservation in africa. with regard to trophy hunting, the eu has been pursuing a balanced approach towards the trade of hunting trophies on which widely divergent positions are held by various countries and ngos. so legal, well-regulated trophy-hunting programmes play an important role in delivering benefits for both life conservation and for the livelihoods and well-being of indigenous people and local communities living with wildlife. so ensuring a return of benefits for local communities, certainly in areas where other resources are scarce, creates an incentive for local communities to be willing to live next to the wildlife and to continue to protect these species. but eu law goes beyond the protection required by cites for listed species. permit issuance relies on the positive opinion of the scientific review group, which is mandated to ensure that inputs of listed species are kept at a sustainable level and will not deplete the species’ population. so the eu intervenes and stops imports when information reveals a threat for the survival of a population. so this corresponds with a precautionary, but also proportionate, approach based on the best available science. with regard to proposals aiming to stop trade in live elephants, international trade in live elephants, especially when it takes the animals out of their natural range, is a very sensitive issue that generates expressions of public concern as we know. it is a highly divisive topic amongst african countries, and the eu has submitted for consideration by the parties a working document to clarify the framework for trade in live elephants, taking a comprehensive approach and building a joint understanding amongst all the range states. so to conclude on this, wildlife trafficking remains a worrying – a very worrying, i would say – global phenomenon, with wide-ranging ecological and socioeconomic impacts. as a source, transit and destination region for trafficked wildlife, the eu has a key role to play in the fight against illegal wildlife trade. so let me thank you once again for following this topic so closely and for the importance which you attach to it, which is indeed merited.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, i would like to thank you all for your interventions. they confirm the strong interest of this house in wildlife conservation and your desire for the eu to play a leading role at the cites cop 19. as i mentioned in my initial intervention, the council is currently working on the union position for the cites cop 19. parliament will, of course, be duly informed once it is adopted. i can see great convergence of views on the fact that cites cop 19 is an excellent opportunity to further strengthen global efforts against wildlife trafficking, including through new listings of endangered species. the presidency will do its utmost to have our proposals adopted in panama.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 136(1). the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. (the sitting was suspended at 14.28)
the commission's question period on combating depopulation through the instrument of cohesion policy follows. i would like to welcome commissioner elisa ferreira to this question period. this question period will last approximately 90 minutes. there will be one minute for a question, two minutes for the answer, 30 seconds for a supplementary question and two minutes for the corresponding answer. i would remind you that any supplementary question will only be assigned if it is closely related to the main question. we must respect this rule and not take this opportunity to ask entirely new questions. if you wish to ask a question, please register your request now using the 'catch-the-eye' function on the voting machine after you have inserted your voting card. during question time, speakers will take their seats. i would ask all speakers to respect the time allotted for speaking. it may take some time for the members to register the request for a question, so i would ask you again to put your request in.
i'm not sure. mr president, i would like to respond by agreeing with the description of the problem, which is, by the way, very correctly done, and if i may, i would like to congratulate parliament for that very reason, for your resolution of 20 may 2021. in fact, there is a depopulation of a number of regions in europe which has two main causes: one is the ageing of europe and, say, the demographic change in europe, which points us towards a path of progressive ageing and abandonment of certain territories, and the other factor results from the absorption that the most dynamic regions exert on the young and the most qualified. that said, cohesion policy has the means to counteract or limit this factor. i would point out that cohesion policy is a policy which is managed in partnership with the member states and is therefore shared management. in this connection, it is also important that the countries should be aware of the strategic importance of rebalancing the territory and of counteracting this progressive loss of momentum in a number of territories, particularly in eastern europe, but also in southern and western europe, where there are a number of territories suffering from a violent trend towards depopulation. this requires that strategies be defined, that they be taken up at national level, that there be actors at regional and local level, and then that the set of instruments available in cohesion policy can be articulated in such a way as to tackle the root of these problems.
commissioner. - mr president, i do think that the provision of certain living conditions in these regions requires a strategy around the role of the centres, which are not usually in the areas suffering from depopulation, the large metropolises, but rather the intermediate centres and the small urban centres. this is where cohesion policy must also be applied, through the provision of basic public goods, and i am of course not only talking about water, sanitation and waste treatment, but also about the internet, health services, education services and also some cultural dimension, in order to create conditions in which a young family feels able to locate itself, to choose its location, often benefiting from a better quality of the environment and from conditions of safety and quality of life in general, much more suitable for the education of children and the establishment of a young family, without the excessive costs of the agglomeration of the large centres. in fact, in the wake of the pandemic and the increased use of digital media, we are already seeing a certain revitalization in europe of centres that were on a trajectory of gradual loss of youth and gradual loss of population. so there is an additional instrument and an additional opportunity here which requires a strategy at the level of these intermediate or small centres, where a dynamic of demographic containment and attraction of young people can be anchored.
commissioner, i am thankful for the commitment shown by you and the commission on the depopulation issue, in particular, the inclusion in the 2022 work programme of the initiative on brain drain. i was leading the work within my political group to adopt a policy paper to find some of the answers to these challenges. one conclusion was that cooperation with citizens, civil society, small and medium enterprises, research and scientific institutions will be key to unleashing each territorial unit’s potential by making tailored solutions for all the different types of territories. and my question is: what is the assessment so far by the commission on how member states are using cohesion policy and addressing these issues in the partnership agreements? are enough efforts being made? and can further improvements be made?
member of the commission. – thank you very much for the question, dear mep rovana plumb. it is, in fact, a concern of the european commission to address this problem. this is a reason why the commission has done a study in 2020 on the demographic trends in the european union. later on, we did the long—term vision for rural areas that touches upon this. also in the eighth cohesion report, we addressed again the problem of what is happening to the different territories. but never in our common history in europe have we had so many financial means, to address these problems. so, in the agreements with member states, we have been putting a lot of pressure for rebalancing growth to be high on the agenda. because the truth is that with all the movement of young people, and also concentration of skilled and unskilled in the big cities, the trend of certain member states is to go on concentrating means to solve the agglomeration of these economies. and so, when we are thinking long—term, and that is the purpose of cohesion policy, it is very important that rebalancing the spatial impact of dynamic and of growth is put high in the political agenda. so the means are there. we are just starting a new period of financial support, as you know, from cohesion. so, we have serious expectations and positive expectations that in the implementation phase, this objective is also ranked sufficiently high in the internal agenda of each member state.
thank you, president. dear commissioner, i would like to thank you for the work you’ve done, you do, and you will do. and for the answer, of course, i know how many efforts are made. there is no question, but i would like to stress that we need to make sure that the demographic realities, such as depopulation, do not lead to polarisation, and that internal cohesion in the eu is not put under strain.
member of the commission. – well, mr president, this was not actually a question. i agree with you. i think, in fact, we cannot do the rebalancing of growth if we don’t have this long-term perspective and if we don’t make sure that the different instruments of policies that we have in our hands, in particular, the recovery and resilience plan and also sectoral policies, don’t take sufficiently into account the spatial impact of their action. because, in fact, when we do trade policy, when we do agricultural policy, when we establish an industrial policy or even energy or digital plans, space, geography matters. and being aware of where the impacts intervene, what kind of impacts you cause with the different actions that you make in order that we really have a long-term vision of where we want to be in 10 years’ time, is absolutely essential for the adequate and efficient management with creating synergies and not contradictory agendas. in fact, by using all these diversified instruments that we have in our hands. so, this is what we are asking member states to do and asking them to refrain from addressing just short-term problems because if that is the case, we will end up with very, very imbalanced spatial situations. also, these big, big centres are starting not to deliver what they could deliver in terms of contribution to development because they are somehow cornered by the amount of problems that agglomeration creates, from environmental problems to inefficiency in the management of the whole city.
madam president, commissioner, the depopulation of certain territories is a worrying trend which risks undermining economic and social convergence in europe. an ageing society, high migration rates, lack of essential services, poor connectivity are reflections of the depopulation that is affecting mainly rural and remote territories. in rural areas, however, we have a valuable tool to ensure rural development and combat depopulation. this is about leader. this programme is the best example of europe and of the proximity of europe to the territories, to europe, to the citizens involved. leader is a vehicle for social innovation which enables citizens to take ownership of the development of their region, their living space and to devise concerted strategies. yet the added value of leader is too often underestimated and the programme is not sufficiently valued. does the commission intend to consider strengthening the leader programme from a budgetary point of view? could the typical bottom-up approach of this programme be extended to other financial instruments? are the existing simplification measures sufficient to promote the multi-fund approach which would allow the leader programme to be financed by several structural funds and thus guarantee access to these funds to smaller communities and thus be more specific in solving this depopulation problem?
member of the commission. thank you for your question. i think you are quite right about the need and the need to address the problem of remote areas, regions with a strong dependence on rural areas. of course, leader is a very successful programme. we have the possibility of adding other similar instruments to this positive experience. the question is above all to have compatibility and synergies between what is happening at local level and the responses also at regional and national level, in relation to a strategy for the revitalization of territories. you have noted, and you have done very well, the need to have management structures that are inclusive and that bring local actors, especially mayors, but not just mayors, ngos, partners to be involved in development structures. and we have several programmes, even at the level of other programmes that are not leader, that are very good in this respect. then i completely agree. we've tried to simplify the mechanisms for accessing funds. we shall see, when the programme for 21-27 starts to work in practice, whether the simplification we have introduced is working sufficiently or not. but i would also like to stress the need for this simplification to be accepted and used at member state, regional and local level. because sometimes it is not just europe that imposes restrictions. there's a whole mechanism that's not working well enough.
mr president, the commission has put forward many initiatives to combat depopulation and promote rural development. the long-term vision for rural areas, the rural pact and the initiative on the return of the brains are among them. however, these initiatives are not budgetary in nature. how does the commission intend to ensure that an adequate share of funds under shared management is redirected to the applicant territories, in particular the rural territories? could a mirror initiative of the european urban initiative, which allocates a percentage of the erdf to cities, be considered for rural areas in the future?
member of the commission. thank you very much again for this question. it's a question that's asked very, very often. you have referred to shared management, so we prefer to have a sensitivity on the part of the member states, which the european and national members of parliament can also strengthen, to work out the details of the different regions and different localities at european level. in fact, there is such a great diversity that it is difficult to manage one size fits all. because really, you need to have a level of perception and strategic definition that takes into account the most appropriate level, sometimes it is the local level, sometimes it is the regional or departmental level, to establish a vision for the future. we have a number of regions with problems, we have peripheral regions, we have outlying regions, we have regions in industrial transition and for this we have a specific fund. there are regions which depend on rural areas but which are very rich in agricultural policy. there are others who are quite poor. so the goal would be to create development strategy mechanisms that take into account what needs to be done for each type of problem and not really make specific allocations for the different problems. because at the end of the day, you have a variety of allocations that may not be the best ways to ensure management. there is a situation which i think is important in terms of the quality of what we do, and not necessarily the money we spend on this objective.
commissioner. - mr president, mr amaro, i could not agree more. we have in fact introduced this concern of 'do no harm to the environment' into the texts alongside (i will say in english because it has become known as such) 'do no harm to cohesion', so as not to damage cohesion, because we also make this kind of pre-approach to the environment. of course, introducing a preliminary approach of this kind formally in all texts and in all legislative texts may be a way of making the whole legislative process very complex, but i think that, at least politically - and that is what i was trying to say - it is very important that synergies be worked out with a common objective in mind, and it is important that, in this common objective for development, some territorial rebalancing at european level, that is, between member states, but also within member states, be duly taken into account. we are now starting to see cases where some countries are approaching the european union average very much, very quickly, but they are doing so at the cost of great internal imbalances. and these internal imbalances, in the medium term, end up generating what in the eighth report became known as the middle-income trap, that is, 'being stuck in the middle'. the reason is that the capitals and the large centres are growing with great dynamism, but they are not enough to drag the surrounding territories along, and the surrounding territories, without having growth engines, end up in a situation of ageing, stagnation, loss of dynamism, which then weighs on the national average, and so having this balanced view is in itself essential.
commissioner. - mr president, mr president-in-office, i think that this is indeed the right strategy. this is because high-level or more sophisticated facilities, whether universities, technology centres, high-level or intermediate level hospitals, cannot be placed in all small territorial units, this requires that there is a hierarchy of urban centres. in this case - and returning to mrs tolleret's question - i think that a number of countries, in particular portugal, which is currently in programme 21-27, end up selecting a number of urban centres where we are returning almost to something that was a concept of the past, which is the hierarchy of urban centres, that is, each urban centre, which functions it must have, which functions it must anchor, so as to become a reference for the surrounding area and, through this quality of life it can offer, including the digital dimension, the cultural dimension, the educational dimension, employment opportunities, to attract and retain a qualified population, the young population and businesses. so to have a little bit of this notion of what are not only the big cities, but also the intermediate cities and the anchor cities of the rural areas is in itself a strategy that makes sense and that rebalances the territory. i think there is a great deal of hope at the moment that this will be achieved with these funds which have been approved for most of the member states. in the case of the country we know, portugal, in particular, does indeed have a strategy in this direction, and we shall see whether we can put it into practice together.
commissioner, as we know, according to expon, by 2050 the population of europe's urban areas is expected to increase by some 24 million people, while the population of rural areas will in principle be reduced by some 8 million. we are therefore talking about a loss, and if we consider that this is particularly true of young people and those with higher qualifications, then we know that rural areas are in a vicious cycle of decline which, in some cases, can even result in the absence of human capital which would enable them to take charge of their own development. good policy coordination is essential to combat it. so, moving on to the point - and i know that it is also extremely sensitive in this area - i ask, in particular, how can the commission, for example, improve and simplify the multi-fund approaches so that there is even more effective coordination between policies, and this is one of the points most often highlighted by all the stakeholders who work specifically with the rural world?
commissioner. - mr president, mrs isabel carvalhais, the point you are making is a very important one. in essence, he is talking about the synergy between the various funds to achieve a certain objective. at the moment, several countries are trying to do just that, through an image, a figurine that we call "integrated territorial instruments" (iti), which seek to climb a little from the lowest level, which is usually, in most countries, the municipality, and try to establish a plan, a vision and, from this vision, to achieve convergence in the management of the various funds. the way the funds are managed allows for a reasonable margin and the units of management, which is an option for each of the countries, and the countries that can concentrate and better articulate management around a vision for that territory - the vision itself is essential - end up having some successes and achieving synergies, which is what we are trying to find. as regards the trends we have to face, it is clear that there is a big wave which is the trend towards europe ageing, europe losing population, but the truth is also that this trend is felt differently in different regions and in different spaces and therefore the indicators i mentioned at the beginning are also confirmed by the commission. by 2020, we have one in three residents in the regions losing population, and this figure by 2040, will be one in two, and therefore half of the population will live in regions that have substantial population losses as a mode, and that's what we have to try to limit.
mr president, i would just like to thank the commissioner for her reply and i think she is here to confirm - if i may be allowed a free interpretation - the importance of actually having a strategy for rural areas in a future european union funding programme, accompanied, of course, by national and regional strategies. this is because it is very useful, in fact, this idea that you are conveying here and that we know is working from the integrated territorial instruments. but then it is important to ensure or to take care that the vision of what countryside is and even the functional definition of rural areas is not lost. i think that the strategy for the rural world will be extremely important there.
commissioner. - mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the members for their commitment to this objective, because only in this way can it be politically accepted by the different member states as an objective of development and not merely of economic growth. i think that the definition of the responsibilities of cities, large cities and small or intermediate centres in relation to the surrounding area is also something that needs more attention, because the systems work anchored in centres with greater or lesser size, but we must have this strategic vision of what are the functions that each of these centres can perform, especially when we also have the notion that ageing generates special needs for the populations that still resist in these territories. these needs must also be linked to what we call the digital divide, for example, because when we anchor all services, including public services, in digital networks, we must create the conditions so that no one is excluded from access to them. and often, older populations or populations in rural areas do not have that capacity, that ease and that flexibility to use the potential of digital media. this can happen, for example, in health services or in pension delivery services. therefore, it is necessary to think in detail about how these populations are detained and how they can access essential services, such as renewal of a personal identity card, access to health services, social security services or even long-term follow-up services in case of loss of physical, motor or psychological abilities. so the detail of these territories has to be worked out very carefully.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am the voice of the south of italy, the voice of a territory which is still more populous than greece, more populous than sweden. but it is a territory which has been experiencing the most rapid depopulation in recent years, and this is unmatched in any other country in the european union. but we know that depopulation is concentrated where there is poverty. despite years of cohesion policy, the gap between southern italy and the rest of europe grows wider every year. so we have to ask ourselves why cohesion policy is not working in southern italy. the point is that there is no point in allocating more and more european resources to lessfavoured areas, if the member state is then free to cancel out ordinary expenditure in those same areas. in italy, for years, ordinary resources have been shifted from the poor part of the country to the rich part of the country, thus undermining any possible objective of cohesion. and so depopulation is only a consequence of the lack of controls by the european union on a state that acts unfairly as it does in italy. i ask you: is the european commission taking action? can you intervene? can you check? because that is what we have to think about and that is what we have to act on.
member of the commission. – thank you for your question, honourable pedicini. everybody that cares about regional development has been working and trying to address the issue of the mezzogiorno in italy. and in fact also italians and the italian government have been attentive to it, so attentive that there was a minister for the mezzogiorno. and i had the chance to speak both with the previous minister, giuseppe provenzano, and after i had long discussions with the minister mara carfagna. and this is the big question – how to address the issue of the mezzogiorno. it has been the object also of a lot of research, of a lot of debates, discussions since the old times of the cassa per il mezzogiorno, and everything, and cathedrals in the desert. so we tried a lot of things. in this discussion with these ministers – yes, it’s an european problem, but also an italian problem – we have focused a lot on the reform of public administration, because we think that the quality of institutions can help. and answering directly your question, the accountability, the choice of projects, how you manage, and of course, there are funds, there is this just transition fund, but trying to improve the mechanisms by which the funds are managed, it seems to us that it is absolutely crucial. and this was also one of the aspects of the diagnosis from the italian government. so we are supporting, through dg reform we are giving a lot of support, and very interested in improving the institutional framework on which the funds are managed to improve transparency and accountability, as well as better choices for the use of funds.
i would like to say to you, commissioner, that the new government has already abolished the ministry of the south, it will no longer exist, and that says a lot about what will happen in the coming months. but i would also like to add a question to that: the commission has been reporting the version of governments for years, the version of governments that has been reported in europe, and that does not correspond to reality. i therefore ask you to look beyond what the member states say and report, because the member state, like italy, is the main one responsible for this situation. so go beyond what you're told.
member of the commission. – i think, in fact, i take good note of your alert. of course, cohesion funding is, by itself, more heavily supportive of the regions that need more support. of course, as a constraint also or a characteristic of cohesion policy, it is managed in partnership with the member state and we have got to accept the democratic choices of european citizens. in fact, i have not yet met the ministers in charge from the new government. so let’s see what happens. but of course, from our side, the rules, the principles and the requirements on which we manage the european taxpayers’ money are quite rigid, they are quite demanding, and in fact, we will abide by the rule of law on which the funds are managed. so thank you very much for your alert, we’ll see how things evolve. but of course for europe, the development or the getting out of this kind of trap from the mezzogiorno is essential; not only for europe, but also for italy, because – i mean, that’s what i’ve mentioned before – having a big part of the country in demographic terms, and in economic terms, and in geography terms that really doesn’t grow, doesn’t develop, is in itself a problem. so of course, we are very attentive to this stimulus that we need to introduce and are trying to solve the bottlenecks that may still be hampering the development of an important part of europe. thank you very much for your alert.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. do you not think that there is a need to change the paradigm of thinking on the question of depopulation of the regions? the commission is not aware of this change in need, because we talk a lot about stopping the depopulation of the regions. and i think the big problem today is that a lot of the regions in the european union have actually already been depopulated. there's no people there. and i think we need to start thinking in a whole new way, and create programs and opportunities, incentives for people to want to go back, because there's been a huge drain of young people, of brains from rural areas, from these areas that are being depopulated, and in addition to what we're doing to keep these people there, we need to think about how we can encourage many others to come back, or to want to live in these depopulated areas at all. and the second question. the commissioner has already spoken about this. the main population left in these depopulated areas are the elderly, the seniors. do you think we should create a special program, a special line of funding, to create a friendly environment for these older people, not just in terms of digital competence, but in terms of accessibility, accessibility of health care, all these areas that are extremely important from the point of view of the elderly?
member of the commission. – you talk about a paradigm shift. i think it is a problem of renewal of the political interest in relation to what is happening in those areas, that i would really subscribe. and you mentioned how you can attract young people to these areas or stop the brain drain. i think the movement of people is something that we really want to respect, but we want people to move because they decide to move, not because they are forced to move because they cannot find jobs in the areas where they were born and where they got the skills. so for this, we need really to think about how the other policies impact the different areas in a country. so when you decide where you locate, for instance a university, where you locate a technological centre, this is an element, a fundamental element of attraction, of competence, of know-how. of course, you cannot locate it just from a purely voluntary kind of perspective in an empty area, in the middle of a mountain, you cannot artificially create this kind of infrastructure. but probably you can spot across the territory where there is still sufficient capacity to anchor these kind of initiatives, these kind of projects, and make sure that when you define your horizontal policies that you locate in those areas the critical elements that can create this kind of environment on which a young person, a young couple can raise a family, can locate, can find a job, and can have a better life. so i think it is this strategy that we can just incorporate in the normal partnership agreements. it depends also on the will of member states to implement it or not. but we are trying really to work with them in order to deliver it in that sense.
today's debate is in the form of questions, so i would ask and hope that the european commission would consider how to reorient its thinking so that all the policies we are implementing for depopulated regions are implemented in such a way that they attract people to them rather than just keep them there. that's my polite appeal in the form of a question.
member of the commission. – well in fact you touched upon something that i mentioned, i think in my first answer – how to change the mindset. and that is i think the crucial question, because in fact the mindset is the core of the question. and when i mentioned the number of member states that really – because they are eager to compete internationally, they concentrate everything in the most developed pole. and now we see that the hyper-concentration of population in those areas kind of limits the capacity of these areas, these developed areas, to jump into innovation, new technologies, more sophisticated areas of value-added, because they are still faced with combating the pockets of poverty in the inner cities, the agglomerations around them and the traffic that this generates, addressing the pollution that it creates and the terrible quality of life of the people that really were kind of pushed out of their natural areas and that concentrate, creating all sorts of problems in security terms, poverty, disenchantment and often even political problems. so in fact, the mindset – but this is something, and that’s why i thank colleagues, because i think members of parliament, politicians, have this capacity to put in the agenda the right topics for the right discussions. and having this discussion here today is in itself something i value very much because this helps to change the mindset and to understand that it is for the good of a country or for the good of europe not to create a lot of imbalances internally, internally to europe, but also internally to the member states.
commissioner, depopulation is a matter of vital importance. it generates poverty and suffering and puts at risk many traditions and ways of life in rural areas throughout the european union. cohesion policy, in addition to balancing between regions, offers an opportunity to combat this phenomenon with tools such as the anti-depopulation strategy. this is a very complex problem which we must tackle from different areas. good communications and telecommunications between rural and urban areas are essential to keep people in the area and to create jobs. infrastructure is necessary for this. mobility is also a key issue. i welcome the work that the european commission has done on the new sustainable urban mobility framework, but i would like us to broaden the focus not only to urban areas, but also to rural areas. in this connection, i would like to ask a number of questions: are we rethinking the new cohesion policy? what action does the commission intend to take to implement the strategy against depopulation in the new financial programmes of cohesion policy? and finally, what measures does the commission intend to take to ensure that the work on sustainable urban mobility can also contribute to the fight against depopulation in the european union?
member of the commission. i fully agree with what you have said about the balance between regions, the role of communications and in particular sustainability, and mobility in urban areas, not only in large cities but also in small centres. it is true that the current cohesion policy funds sustainable media, in terms of climate impact, and that this can simplify the operation of smaller urban centres. there is also a problem of financial sustainability which sometimes prevents the introduction of more modern and more sustainable media in very small rural areas. we must therefore work not only on infrastructure, in terms of technological choice, but also on how to articulate a system that is sustainable in terms of funding for small populations, small cores. but i think that's why it's important that there is a fund, like the erdf funds, that can ensure that the primary investment is a co-financed investment - and co-financed in a rather interesting way - that reduces the need for financial sustainability, which would be a serious problem for many of the small towns or small cities.
member of the commission. – thank you very much for your question. i think that if i correctly understand you, you describe the problem in the mountainous areas, rural areas, but then you say, ok, have local municipalities been sufficiently involved? the organisation of the administrative structure of the management of funds varies from country to country, and the commission cannot really interfere directly in how countries are organised. some countries have a regional level, some countries do not have the regional level, and some countries have the municipality or the parish as the most adequate entity to manage the funds. so the principle of cohesion is that in fact you have got to respect the internal organisation of each member state, but local entities, regional entities and other entities, according to the partnership principle and stakeholders, have got to be involved. so how you decide, what you decide to implement depends on the internal organisation of each member state. but in fact it has got to define a vision that takes a bottom—up approach to be combined with the top—down approach so that the funds, the instruments, can converge for the development of the local entities. and of course the local entities must be involved. the level of this involvement varies, as i mentioned, according to the degree of decentralisation that each country adopts. so that’s all in relation to your question.
commissioner, in the international recognition of the republic of croatia, germany has shown itself not only as a partner but also as a friendly country to croatia. however, in the past ten years, the republic of croatia has given germany 18 billion euros. namely, that much croatia has spent on the education of young people who, for the most part, went to germany immediately after graduation and now contribute to the development of the german economy, not the croatian economy. what cohesion policy instruments can you use to offset the high cost to the republic of croatia of having freedom of movement within the european union, so that it does not benefit only some countries but harms others?
member of the commission. – thank you very much for your question. in fact, the freedom of movement of people is something that we really want to keep in europe. it is essential for europe. the solution that i think can be the answer to your question is to define a development strategy. i just came from croatia last week to sign exactly the partnership agreement with croatia for 2027, and i see within this partnership agreement the elements that can really foster the creation of new areas of research, of innovation, poles of development, not only in the capital of croatia, but also in other areas – and i visited other areas. in fact, if the opportunities are there, people, young people, qualified people will come back, and you can even end up by attracting young people from other countries that may opt to live in croatia because the quality of life in croatia is probably much better than in the countries of origin. so this movement of people going back and forth is part of europe, and i think we should not restrict it because that would be a big, big loss. but we have to create conditions for people moving, willing to move into croatia rather than willing to move into germany or any other country. to create these conditions you have got to organise, together with all stakeholders in croatia, the strategies that create the opportunities for these people to be there, to work there and to raise their families there. the way we are going in croatia goes in that direction, with growth, with joining the euro, with schengen. so i think in fact there is a good prospect for croatia in that sense. as i told you, we just finished the partnership agreement signature last week.
mr. president, please! thank you for the opportunity. - the honourable commissioner! to keep young people in rural areas, we need quality infrastructure, including modern broadband, and jobs. and we've also brought all of this together in the concept of smart villages, where we want to create the conditions for a populated countryside. this includes agriculture, rural mobility, tourism, energy, care for the elderly in rural areas, e-health. it is therefore clear from these many activities that we also need different funding sources. we have leader, where five per cent of the rural development programme is spent, and when we try to get funds for this programme from the regional fund, there are problems at national level, neither the state nor the social fund decides. i propose that in the next financial perspective we have a specific fund, similar to what we have for urban centres, also for rural areas, in which we will combine funds from different funds and also ensure this synergy of action of different policies in rural areas.
member of the commission. – thank you very much for your question. if i understand you correctly, you are suggesting a separate allocation of funds just for rural areas. i think you have rural areas that are quite rich, that benefit from agricultural policy, for instance, and you have rural areas that are extremely poor; you have mountainous areas; you have peripheral areas; you have areas going under transition; you have areas that are just outermost regions. so, the different problems that we are facing across europe, they all deserve a special approach. i don’t think the special approach depends on creating allocations of funds. it depends, basically, on fulfilling the principle of the european union. and in fact, all the rural areas, all the underdeveloped areas, they have per capita support from european funding that is much higher than the per capita financing that is associated with the more developed areas. apart from this, i think it is the quality of the instruments, the quality of the vision and policies that each country, each region proposes for each sub—area that can really help these areas to progress. if we segment all the funds into these different kinds of issues that we have to address, i don’t think we can really expect to have more simplicity, more linear access to the funds, and we want to simplify it. so, accepting diversity is in itself part of the policy and adjusting the instruments to the diversity of the areas, i think that is more adequate, but of course it’s something to be discussed.
member of the commission. – thank you, mr president, and thank you very much for your question. i will not discuss the content of the agricultural policy because my colleague mr wojciechowski will come if you wish, or you can have him with much more knowledge to discuss the details of the policy. what i would like to underline from your intervention is this call that i already mentioned in a previous answer and that i would like to reinforce here: we have got to be aware of and attentive to the impact that the different horizontal policies in europe have on the different regions of europe and different member states of europe. this is valid for the european approach, but it is also valid for each member state. when you have the smart specialisation strategy, when you define where you locate your universities, when you decide which roads or railways to build, when you decide the most neutral policy, the different realities on which the different policies intervene creates different dynamics in the different spaces. being aware of this regional impact of the sectoral policies, and even more, being aware with a strong instrument like the recovery and resilience plans, what the regional impact of each of these plans is, is in itself something to which i would like to call your attention because we cannot have contradictory instruments if we really want to converge to a more balanced and more equilibrium in the growth inside a country or inside europe. that’s why i thank you for having stressed this issue, because, in fact, it requires attention.
member of the commission. your honour, thank you very much for your question. the definition of 'depopulated area' is certainly an added value that you have introduced into the legislation. differential taxation is something that, in the context of competition in europe, is possible in the case of the economically most fragile areas of europe. we know this, but we also know that not only taxation can be used (and is being used), and that it is necessary to differentiate between support for production and support for small and mediumsized enterprises through the systems introduced by the member states, in particular support for the development of small economic institutions. it is also very important to make the most efficient use of the european social fund in conjunction with the erdf. on the just transition fund: we are working very intensively with all the member states. there are very big differences between one and the other. some, four in particular, have finalized plans, which are fully underway. others have more difficulty defining how to make the transition and we are working on it. some have an autonomous budget line for the just transition fund. others have integrated it into the regional development plan. we are working very intensively with the member states to ensure that the funds associated with the fund are not lost.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, despite the efforts made by the european union with its cohesion policy, over the last eight years the south of italy has suffered a demographic decline unparalleled in the european union. in particular, regions such as molise, calabria and basilicata have lost hundreds of thousands of their residents. we know that cohesion policy plays a decisive role in tackling demographic challenges of this scale and i therefore ask you whether you do not consider it necessary to revise the strategies developed for rural and peripheral areas, providing more specific funding opportunities, so as to strengthen youth employment, entrepreneurship, digitalisation, access to health and public services. i would also like to ask you how the european commission intends to safeguard the implementation of the national and regional strategies for inland areas in the 2021-2027 programming period through an efficient use of european resources, considering that, for example, in my region, calabria, funding for some territorial strategies for inland areas has been removed from the programme due to delays in the launch of these strategies.
member of the commission. – thank you very much for your question. part of the question on mezzogiorno i already answered when another mep from italy asked about it. i think the development problem in the present circumstances doesn’t depend on ring fencing money. the problem is not lack of money. i’m sorry to say it, but in particular in the case of italy, if you add together the recovery and resilience plan and the 2021-2027 multiannual cohesion funding, the amounts are in fact quite robust, quite substantial, and you can even add to it what remains to be executed from 2014-2020. and you also have the just transition fund exactly for certain areas in the south. so i think more than allocating or ring fencing funds to tackle these issues. the crucial issue is to understand what is blocking the development and to address the elements that need to be tackled for that purpose, in particular, to address the instruments that you want to use, how you want to use the money and this plan. i saw it with the minister giuseppe provenzano, with minister mara carfagna, you know, we’ll see, i mean, i didn’t have a meeting yet with the new minister, but the crucial thing is to have a vision, to know what you want to reach, how we are going to tackle it. we are supporting also italy and mezzogiorno with the just transition fund. we are supporting italy also with the public administration requalification. so let’s hope for the best, but the money is there, for sure.
mr president, commissioner, it is essential that not a single cent of cohesion policy 2014-2020 is lost and that cohesion policy is accelerated from 2021 to 2027. in portugal, portugal 20-30 is at risk of not having a single euro in use by 2022. in addition, it is very important to pay particular attention to regional operational programmes. i would ask the commissioner if she is aware that in the case of portugal the regional operational programmes, as they are being designed, will make it difficult or even prevent municipalities with a smaller population from accessing all the axes and amounts of the regional operational programmes? because if that happens, there's going to be more depopulation, there's going to be more desertification. and i ask whether the commissioner has this indication and how will she act? because i know that is not the way you want cohesion policy to be implemented. and finally, coordination is essential, how will coordination be achieved between the eafrd and also cohesion policy programmes and regional operational programmes?
commissioner. - mr president, mr president-in-office, i agree that it is important that no money is lost from 2014 to 2020. i do not think that this risk is feasible in the case of portugal. the agreement with portugal was signed for 21-27 and is already a country with an absolutely normal or above average rate of implementation. as far as the structure of the programme that has been approved is concerned, as far as the commission is aware, this risk does not seem to be evident, not least because there is a concern to create sub-spaces and to reserve them for what is called, as i have already mentioned, the iti, that is, 'integrated territorial interventions'. that is the perspective that the government has presented to us and it is precisely on the basis of the conviction that the result will be positive that the partnership agreement has been approved and signed. it is clear that the moment the partnership agreement is signed is not the end of anything, it is the beginning of implementation and we are convinced, with portugal as with all the other countries, that what the countries propose will be implemented in the best possible way. so at this moment when we are launching all the programmes and have already signed partnership agreements, i think that at this moment with 22 or more countries, we all have the expectation that the great european problems and the great problems facing each country will be properly addressed, because the means are available and the proposals that have been put to us are correct and reasonable.
member of the commission. your honour, thank you very much for the question and the examples you have given us. i'd like to emphasize the importance of sharing good experiences. the experiences you have just mentioned are very interesting to me, because we can and must share development instruments which will help us achieve the objectives we want to achieve. that is why i find your point of view very interesting. i think that the principle of rural verification is very important for understanding the impact of all policies, not only on rural areas, but on all situations in different countries. there are rural regions suffering from depopulation; others are mountainous; others are peripheral; others are ultraperipheral; others are industrial regions in transition; others suffer from population congestion. it is therefore very important to examine cohesion and to incorporate this concept into the various situations we have in europe and within each country. i am glad to hear that aragon is indeed converging on policies. let's follow up and see what we can learn from each other so we don't reinvent the wheel continuously. thank you very much for your intervention.
member of the commission. – yes, i know how engaged you are with this rural development. and i confirm that in fact there are several instruments. we are discussing leader. we are discussing clld. and this is a matter, i think, of political visibility, political will, political priority, because you said it, the instruments are there. we have the means, we have the instruments. so why member states don’t use it – i mean, some do. that’s the kind of good examples that we have. we were just listening to a colleague from aragon that says ok, we are doing the right thing. i mean, listening to each other. maybe it’s inspiring, but i think that sometimes when the instruments are managed and thought of at the central level, the bottom—up approach is too distant to be addressed. and so the important thing also is to make sure that the chain that we have to respect of the administration in each member state is not such that the initiatives that come from bottom up are not sufficiently taken into account and that there is enough flexibility to adapt the answers at the appropriate level. probably what you are talking about can be operational and it can make a huge difference in creating some soft infrastructures. but probably if you need to have something else like a school or like a hospital or a technological centre, then you have got to have some listening capacity at the regional level, at the level of the lender or the level of the central government. and this capacity to react and to understand and to listen requires a lot of sophistication in the administration. so that is also part of the political will.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in the last ten years alone the south of italy has lost almost a million inhabitants, the equivalent of the population of molise and basilicata combined, and it is estimated that in the next twenty years it will lose another four million, the equivalent of the population of the whole of puglia. a depopulation that, as we know, is due to poverty, lack of work and services that have caused immigration and a 40% drop in births in the last twenty years. i do not believe, and i do not think it is acceptable, that the answer to all this is what the left calls the so-called riace model, which was applied, for example, by mimmo lucano in calabria, namely to compensate for these exits by the entry of masses of desperate immigrants who arrive from other areas with even greater problems. what is needed is a major development plan that will bring roads, trains, airports, hospitals, schools, incentives to investment, enterprise, work, family and even life, in terms of births, and everything that is needed to guarantee southern italy what is guaranteed in other parts of europe. the point is, and this is my question, why the european commission, which is so concerned about cohesion, did not ensure that the pnrr was drawn up by the draghi government so that this attention was paid to the allocation of resources for southern italy, which we all know did not happen.
member of the commission. – well, thank you very much. i think, as i mentioned before, the problem in southern italy is not a lack of funding. it’s probably a process of an historical nature. it’s up to you to tell me what doesn’t work in southern italy or what has not worked, because in fact, since very early in cohesion policy, we had this concern with southern italy, since the origin of cohesion policy in europe. you had the cassa per il mezzogiorno, you had what then ended up being called cathedrals in the desert and now you have all this financial capacity that is offered for the development of southern italy, including the just transition fund as well. i think the issue that we have to address there is to ask you to ask the people that live in the mezzogiorno, what is the essence, what is the solution, in order to trigger the development that is possible from a financial kind of availability of funds? so funds are there, italy has a strong recovery and resilience plan, it has very strong financing for 21 to 27, so it’s not lack of funding. what matters now is to understand what is not working and how we can reverse this spiral or this situation of being stuck in a level of development that is not sufficient to bring in young people, the young generation and to turn the wheel in the other sense. in fact, i have a lot of hope that with all the work that has been done in previous governments, of preparation and all that, that there is a vision for southern italy and that we end up solving forever the development problem of the mezzogiorno. that’s my wish. and grazie mille for your question.
question time is closed.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the commission proposal for measures under the conditionality regulation in the case of hungary (2022/2853 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for giving me the floor in this debate to discuss with you a very topical issue that is essential for the functioning of our union. the council welcomes the framework established by the regulation on a general regime of conditionality for the protection of the union budget, as there is a clear link between respect for the rule of law and the efficient implementation of the eu budget in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. we are of course satisfied that such regulation saw the light in 2020 with the work of the co-legislators and the strong support of the european parliament. it is in the context of the conditionality regulation that the council has received a proposal from the commission on measures for the protection of the union budget in hungary. i can inform you that the council’s preparatory bodies are currently examining the proposal in detail, both on process and on substance. apart from discussions at technical level, the eu ambassadors will discuss tomorrow the proposal for a second time. all elements are being thoroughly considered by member states, including the remedial measures proposed by hungary. you are well aware of the political sensitivity of the file. moreover, the fact that this is the first time that the mechanism foreseen in the conditionality regulation is put in motion requires member states to treat this dossier in an even more careful manner. allow me to indicate a very important point: the role of the commission in this process is crucial. we trust the commission’s role as guardian of the treaties. the council counts on the commission’s exhaustive assessment of the situation to take a sound and well—informed decision. so it is in this spirit that we work closely with the commission, but also with the member state involved to make a decision that is the best for the eu budget and for european citizens. as you know, the time frame provided by the conditionality regulation is very strict. the council will respect all deadlines foreseen in the regulation and act very swiftly. therefore i can assure you that the council is and stays fully committed to playing its role in protecting the eu budget as foreseen in the conditionality regulation.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear minister, honourable members, first i would like to thank you again for your commitment in the constructive dialogue on the enforcement of the conditionality regulation. the parliament was always a very tough and vocal supporter. as you all know, we have a whole toolbox of instruments with different methodologies to protect the union budget. within this toolbox, the conditionality regulation aims at protecting the union budget when breaches of the principles of rule of law affect or risk affecting the union’s financial interests. other instruments in the rule-of-law toolbox are dedicated to breaches of the rule of law per se. as president von der leyen also confirmed in the state of the union address, the commission will use the conditionality mechanism whenever the conditions are fulfilled. as you are aware, at the moment there is one ongoing case. on 18 september, the commission adopted the very first proposal for a council implementing decision under the conditionality regulation. it proposed measures to the council for the protection of the union budget against breaches of the principles of the rule of law in hungary. this procedure started when the commission notified hungary on 27 april about its concerns relating to breaches of the principles of the rule of law that create a serious risk for the union budget. to recall, these concerns are systemic irregularities and deficiencies and weaknesses in public procurement. second, insufficiencies in addressing conflicts of interest and concerns regarding public interest funds. further, weaknesses in the effective pursuit of investigations and prosecutions in cases involving union funds. and finally, shortcomings in the anti-corruption framework. following several intermediate steps at the end of august, hungary committed to 17 remedial measures to address the risks to the union budget specified in the notification. this i explained and assessed in the recent commission proposal for a council implementing decision available to the parliament. with these measures, hungary has made important commitments in the right direction. i explicitly welcome this constructive engagement, i have to say, even if it arrived at a late stage in the procedure. so some examples of the remedial measures: a new and independent integrity authority with extensive powers as regards the prevention, detection and correction of fraud, conflicts of interest, corruption and other irregularities affecting the union’s financial interests; an anti-corruption task force with strong involvement of specialised ngos and the modification of the criminal procedure code to allow for an effective judicial review of prosecutorial decisions; further, the systematic use of the commission’s data—mining and risk—scoring tool arachne, which is a comprehensive database of projects combined with public information to help identify risks related to beneficiaries, contracts or contractors; further changes to the public procurement act to clarify rules applying to public interest funds; further reform of the asset—declaration system for high-profile public officials, which means members of government but also mps. our conclusion is that, taken together, the proposed remedial measures could in principle be capable of addressing the issues described in the notification. if – and i stress if – they are correctly specified in the relevant laws and rules and implemented accordingly. another conclusion i draw from this is that without the conditionality mechanism none of these reform measures would be in place, and without the european parliament, the conditionality mechanism would not exist in its current form. of course, pending hungary’s fulfilment of these criteria at this stage, the commission considers that the risk for the budget remains – a reason for which the commission proposed measures to the council. hence the commission proposed the suspension of 65% of the commitments for three operational programmes under cohesion policy. this amounts to an estimated amount of eur 7.5 billion, which means over a third of hungary’s cohesion envelope. why those three programmes? because they will be mainly implemented through public procurement and the commission considers that they are likely to be affected again by the breaches of the principles of the rule of law. a second measure is the prohibition to enter into legal commitments with the so-called public interest trusts. the council has now one month from 18 september to decide on the measures, and we have heard that probably there will be a decision tomorrow, if i was right. but they have to take the decision by qualified majority. so this period may be extended by a maximum of two additional months. a number of key remedial measures should be implemented by 19 november 2022. and of course we will monitor these key elements very closely in the coming weeks. hungary has committed to fully inform the commission about the implementation of the remedial measures, but 19 november is also outlined in the timeline published in our proposal. at that point we will assess the situation again. so rest assured that, as has been the case since the adoption of the regulation, the commission will continue to provide you with updates on relevant developments. our objective is again that the union budget is no longer at risk and we hope to achieve this as soon as possible through the adequate reforms in hungary – and not only the reforms but also, of course, more importantly, the proper implementation of these measures.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, council, this is going to look and sound pretty dramatic because i’m just about to lose my voice. the previous time i was here at a key point in this regulation, i had so terrible neck pain that i almost collapsed. maybe this shows you how seriously i take, as the co—rapporteur, this historic occasion. it’s been a long time coming. the commission’s work was, and is, not easy. we welcome the fact that we are now in the last stages of this particular journey with this regulation. actually, this journey is completely defined by the regulation itself. a historic responsibility really now lies on the shoulders of the commission and the council. now, i don’t think that anyone here would want to see any member state’s budget being cut by the european union. personally, it wouldn’t give any satisfaction to me whatsoever. but we are dealing with the utmost important things that are actually the cornerstones of this union. and the key here will be that the commission and the council just simply have to get it right. this doesn’t mean necessarily that they have to cut the budget, but they have to get it right. i am worried, i have to say, because i do not necessarily share sometimes her optimistic view that we can then correct this if we don’t succeed this time. i don’t think there is any going back. we have to get it right now. my question to you, commissioner, is how on earth are you going to assess that the changes hungary makes will be enough to reduce the risk to the eu budget before we actually see any implementation on the ground? so all eyes will be on our new council and the commission.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. and in fact, at the last part-session we adopted a very strong resolution on this subject by a large majority. but now it's time to get to work. thanks to the initiative of this parliament, we have the conditionality mechanism which allows budgetary measures to be taken against a country which violates the rule of law in a way which affects the financial interests of the union. and it is true that the commission could have been more stringent in its proposal. i think he has every reason and proof to do so. they should have made a proposal that included more programmes and more quantities. in any case, we have a proposal and we cannot wait any longer. and we cannot accept the commitments that the orbán government now wants to sign as a guarantee that things will change, because so far they have done absolutely nothing. the council must therefore adopt the budgetary measures proposed by the commission and freeze the 7.5 billion euro. and if we can verify that these 17 commitments, to which orbán is now committing, are not only fulfilled on paper, but are also implemented and effective, then and only then can we lift the measures. so i would ask the council to be very careful what it approves, because the order of the factors in this case does affect the product. because it is not the same thing to approve the freezing of funds and then reverse that decision, if there is indeed progress, than to close the file because we believe the commitments and in the end find that the hungarian government is doing absolutely nothing. we cannot forget the ultimate aim of this mechanism, because it is not to punish a country; the aim is to ensure that the rule of law is respected and, until this happens, european money cannot be disbursed. so the decision of the hungarian government is very easy: either the rule of law or freezing of funds. and he has to make that decision.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, first of all, i note that we are having this debate with the budget commissioner, commissioner hahn, instead of president von der leyen, despite the fact that in my view the rule of law is chefsache. it is not a budget matter. i’m sorry, commissioner, i disagree with you. this is not about protecting the budget of the european union: it is about protecting our common values. that’s what the regulation is about. i recommend that you look at the history of the regulation. now, we welcome the fact that the commission proposes to freeze eur 7 billion for hungary. it’s a good step, but it’s way too small, commissioner – i see you’re very busy. they are austrian friends. yes. thank you. lovely country, austria! – it’s a good step, the eur 7 billion, but it’s far too small. and the escape clauses are already built in. and it turns out that the rule of law, after all, is negotiable for the european commission, because we have here 17 criteria which are clearly falling short of what is needed, allowing mr orbán to make mere cosmetic changes. you’re proposing a freeze of – not 65%, commissioner – 15% of the money due to hungary, let alone the 100% that should be frozen if we look at the state or the record of viktor orbán. so again, the rule of law is being negotiated because mr orbán gets extra time. now, can we trust the commission to be tough in its assessment of hungary’s compliance with the already weak criteria? i’ll be very honest with you, commissioner hahn: i am not 100% reassured if i look at the track record of this commission and indeed that of mr orbán for the last 12 years. you are showing a lot of reluctance, to be honest, to apply this strictly. the commission has been ducking the application of the regulation for two years, almost. and now that you have to apply it, you’re trying to reduce the scope to the bare minimum. for me, this is the key question. we gave you our vote of confidence in 2019. your core duty is to uphold the treaties and enforce the law. and if the commission bows to kleptocrats, you no longer deserve our confidence. please, commissioner, prove me wrong.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! i'm surprised that the candidates in today's debate are so shameless. in the face of rampant inflation in the european union, high energy prices caused by the european union's energy dependence on russia and the war in ukraine, you are constantly dealing with hungary month after month. well, in hungary, the people have decided to entrust their homeland to the fidesz party - orbán, and that is their decision, that is their choice. but you state that there are violations of rights and freedoms, and that the mechanism of conditionality is also violated. you're already threatening to dismiss commissioner hahn because he doesn't meet your expectations. you want to starve hungary, poland! the president of the european commission has also taken the liberty of making a move towards italy. before the italian elections, the italian brothers had a high rating. and ursula von der leyen said that it would also be possible to make it difficult for them to function in the european union. you're far from forgotten. the key debate today should be the debate on the breach of the eu solidarity rules in relation to the situation on the gas market. ladies and gentlemen, germany is blocking the introduction of a european gas price cap in the council. also in the european parliament, the german epp delegation blocked the call for a gas price cap. it was germany that made the eu's energy policy dependent on gazprom... (the president cut off the speaker)
i would ask the visitors to the gallery not to clap. i am not saying that we should not be in favour of the commission's proposal, but that we should be in favour of the commission's proposal. you are welcome to watch, but not to intervene by applauding.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i am just back from the beautiful city of budapest, where we were several hundred people gathered for three days of activism and mobilising for lesbian rights, for women’s rights, for lgbti rights, for democracy, for equality, for a vision and a future of democracy, where it is restored in hungary and where it is protected everywhere in europe. and we all know that we are 12 years too late, commissioner. we lost a lot of time. we failed our democratic allies in hungary. so this time we have to stand more and stronger in solidarity with those that worked tirelessly in hungary for a democratic country. so the measures that you are proposing, they are far from enough. and let me be clear, the action proposed by orbán are far from enough. there needs to be sincere steps to restore democracy in hungary, rule of law, independence of the judiciary, media pluralism and freedom, fundamental rights. what is happening is not enough. and we also have to make sure that the attacks on democracy does not spread. other authoritarian leaders are watching very closely what is happening in europe. and it will determine whether others also try to walk the path of orbán where the far-right has approached power, as in my country, sweden. third, this is a test for the conditionality mechanism. it will set the standards and the bar for how it can be used with other countries if we have to. so please don’t fail this one. we cannot afford anything else than restoring democracy. anything else would be a failure. this is our chance, this is your chance. council, commissioner, don’t waste it, do more, do better and ask more from orbán.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. there are defining moments in the life of every political formation. they often come when there's trouble. the current crisis shows that europe is not on top of the situation. the war and misguided european sanctions have sent energy prices soaring, inflation soaring, unemployment soaring and a severe economic recession looming. this affects millions of european families and businesses, and even in this difficult situation, the extremist representatives sitting here continue to ideologically blackmail and foment division. they're making the most absurd accusations, along with hungarian leftists, just to keep the hungarian people from getting the resources they deserve. the fact is that an agreement on the use of eu funds was reached between hungary and the european commission in fair negotiations. there is no technical or legal issue that has not been resolved, but you don't care what measures we take because you are carrying out a political mission that aims to starve hungary and all other governments that pursue conservative national policies. look at the shameful attacks on poland, or the outrageous message to the still-unformed italian government. you will never have enough as long as hungary is ruled by a christian democracy, so you keep adding fuel to the fire, attacking, lying and threatening. i reject all this in the name of millions of european citizens. and your shameful political activities will be judged by future generations and history books.
i would really invite those in the visitors’ gallery not to show any sign like clapping or support. according to our rules of procedure, our guests are invited to participate and to watch the debate, but not to clap or give any signs. if you do so, unfortunately i will have to ask the ushers that you leave the room. so if there is one more sign of support or noise, i will really have to do that. i invite you to participate and watch the debate – because for us it is very important that the public has the opportunity – but please remain silent.
madam president, the eu has long been toothless in the fight to protect the rule of law in certain member states. national leaders refuse to hold each other to account. and the other article 7 procedures initiated by the commission and parliament failed to deliver real results. so last year, january was truly a historic moment. finally some teeth; finally an instrument that makes an impact, both because the language of money apparently is the only language truly understood in warsaw and budapest, but also because the european council can no longer hide behind one or two member states. so we welcome these proposed measures as a real step in the right direction, even though we would have expected even stricter demands. we have known mr orbán for a long time now, and his past performance does nothing to reassure us about the future. there is a real risk of hungary ticking the boxes as a paper reality only without really addressing the deficiencies. and this is why we insist on robust verification and monitoring. only significant, tangible and lasting progress in rebuilding democratic and anti-corruption safeguards should enable the release of eu taxpayers’ money. declarations, working groups, frameworks: they all sound nice, but they are not sufficient and risk being empty shelves. the council cannot afford to buy another peacock dance of mr orbán. so two concrete questions to commissioner hahn. first, why are the agricultural funds not part of this ongoing process? and secondly, how does the commission intend to proceed in the case of other countries, in particular poland?
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. most of the eu funds coming to hungary are stolen by the oligarchs of the prime minister. since the european commission suspended the disbursement of funds, these government-related companies have been left without orders, so now the government is doing everything to restart eu funds. not for the people, of course, but so they can keep stealing. a big package of legislation has just been presented to the hungarian parliament. for example, they would create a supposedly anti-corruption authority whose chairman would be appointed by another person on the recommendation of one of the prime minister's people. will this authority be independent? no way is it going to be independent, ladies and gentlemen. or, for example, it would have been introduced in principle so that anyone could bring corruption cases to court, but this law was sent an hour after it was voted for to the constitutional court for examination, where every member, every constitutional judge was appointed by the current ruling party. is this how we're going to handle corruption cases? there will be no proceedings. these proposals are only intended to dazzle the european commission. from a distance, these laws may seem to be designed to curb corruption. but in hungary, everyone knows it's all an act, it's all a sham. this is precisely why we voted no to this package of legislation in the hungarian parliament, because we want eu funds to reach the hungarian people, the hungarian municipalities and the hungarian businesses. but the new laws designed to defraud the european commission are precisely what opens up the possibility of continuing the theft. we can't be fooled by that. my fellow mps, officer, please don't let them fool you.
you've just been given a blue card, a question to you, and if you want to ask a blue card yourself, that's possible if you take a seat. i would like to say, however, that because the debate is very lively and we have other debates to follow, i will only accept blue cards if they are not put forward by speakers who have time to speak anyway and who can then give input in their speech. now, these are the rules for this debate.
question no 3 by mr von wogau (h-0410/97) subject: the commission's proposal to the council for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work if we're talking about democracy, i would ask you this question. and in hungary, too, voters this year have chosen a democratically elected conservative, christian-democratic government. please, congressman, respect that.
madam president, i would ask what you do if you want to take big chunks of european money for your own benefit or to enrich those around you? well, you go into government, then you create very loose public procurement rules – rules that you know you will not respect anyway – you manage to channel most of your funds to your son—in—law, for example, who will not build with this money what he is supposed to build, but he will keep most of the money for himself. this is documented by the european agency for anti-corruption. it is discussed at length in this european parliament. it is known in all european institutions. courageous journalists will do reports on it. then, when the commission can no longer not take action on this because they have got pressure, when the commission needs you to find a tweak to allow them to go on not dealing with the situation, that is when you wrap it up all with very good legalistic jargon and you pledge for a fake anti-corruption mechanism. this is when you have managed to legalise a decade of stealing.
madam president, minister, commissioner, colleagues, the best friend of childhood who becomes the richest plumber in europe, the son-in-law who receives a juicy public market for christmas. corruption cases have become legion in viktor orban's hungary. systematic corruption, in the words of the european commission itself, corruption against which the judiciary does not want to do anything, i say, does not want to do anything and cannot do anything, because the judges and controllers have been placed in strategic control bodies by viktor orban and his party precisely to control nothing and precisely to turn a blind eye. so i call for an end to impunity. either orban restores the rule of law in what has become an electoral autocracy, or we cut european funding. and i'm warning you here, commissioner. it is one thing for fidesz mps to adopt reforms on paper. whether they actually end the violations of the rule of law is another matter. so it is on the basis of the results that we will have to decide whether to defrost the funds or not. and the same is of course true of the recovery plan. the money of europe and, by extension, the money of europeans, cannot support anti-democratic projects, and not be put into the pockets of oligarchic apprentices. if we do not suspend the funds, we are complicit in building a corrupt state within our union. and that, of course, is out of the question.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the point is clear: it is right, important and long overdue that the rule of law mechanism has been set in motion against hungary and that sensitive financial sanctions have been proposed. and the draft conditionality regulation is proof of that. it just needs to be implemented. for the baptism of fire has not yet taken place. it is also a question of our credibility and our ability to act, to impose sanctions both internally and externally and to defend our rights and values when they are violated. we do not interfere in this, but we protect the taxpayer, all citizens, the community of law and values. the list of defects is long. there is a risk of misuse of eu funds. so we must act and hold the money until further notice.
madam president, on 8 october 2021, a historic global agreement on minimum taxation of multinational companies was signed by more than 130 countries, including the governments of poland and hungary. it would bring in more than 50 billion euros a year, which we need right now. the commission then proposes a directive. there are negotiations, some countries - malta, ireland - block, we lift the blockages, we negotiate rationally. one country is an exception: poland. poland, which does not vote for tax reasons but because it is in conflict with the european commission over the rule of law. the european commission is making a mistake here: it is giving in to this blackmail. poland is obviously lifting its block on this directive. but it does give other ideas. this gives ideas to a government, the hungarian government, which is now blocking this agreement, which it signed on a global level. this is what happens when you fail and when you fail on the rule of law. we're not buying time, we're creating a myriad of problems. parliament voted a resolution this summer expressly asking the european commission not to give in to this blackmail, which, let us remember, is possible because of unanimity. the best guarantee for our democracy and for the rule of law is the qualified majority.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, mahsa amini, a 22-year-old woman, died after being beaten by the police in iran for not wearing her islamic veil properly. hadis najafi, 20, shot six times by police for the same reason. like them, thousands of brave women in iran are fighting to free themselves from the veil, a symbol of the enslavement of women. but for years the european union has been promoting the wearing of the same veil in europe. and recently, in november 2021, the european commission co-funded this campaign claiming that freedom is in the hijab. last february, at the conference on the future of europe, this visual was released: the future is in your hands and features a woman wearing a hijab. this is not the future of europe that our peoples want. on 21 september, as part of an erasmus+ campaign, the commission distributed this poster featuring a veiled girl. on 21 september a delegation from the femyso movement, which a former french minister described as the false nose of islamism, took part in a genuine proselytizing exercise in favour of women's veiling at the invitation of the socialist group. but the european union's support for this cause is also financial: 23 million euros paid by the commission to enar, which brings together many associations which refuse to integrate with our european values and some of which are received here to accuse france of islamophobia. this is no longer acceptable. europeans do not expect the european union to convert them to islam. brussels should listen to the iranian women instead of the ayatollahs.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, shame, shame on those who murdered mahsa amini and so many other women because a lock of hair was over their veil. shame on the militias of the islamic dictatorship of iran who are depriving women of the free disposal of their bodies. shame on this obscurantist patriarchal regime which gags, crushes and imprisons women and all those who mobilize with them. shame on the theocracy of the mullahs whose oppression of women and the compulsory veil are the keystone. shame on emmanuel macron who shook president raissi's hand when the police fired on the crowd on his orders. shame on the heads of state who look at their pumps when the iranians who are mobilizing need support and their tormentors of sanctions. "woman, life, freedom" with these simple words, the iranian women are leading the battle of all women under the bullets and are dragging behind them a whole people united against corruption, dictatorship and injustice. their courage compels us. we must never let our solidarity weaken. we must fight everywhere and at all times against the oppression of women, for the conquest of their freedom in iran, as for the defense of the fundamental right to dispose of their bodies in the united states, in hungary or in poland. and i mean here, what hypocrisy on the part of the far right to come here to lecture when you are the first to oppress the right of women to have their own bodies in the european union! so, in tribute to the struggle of iranian women, i end with the verses of the poet mona borzouei, arrested for saying: "her hair, flag that night has defiled, we will take back in the shadow of your claws. oh, the magma of lies! oh, you scared one! we'll take this country back from your clutches. other
mr president, 500, 800, 3,000 dead or more. we know that you will not spare, you pasdarans and other bassidjis to keep your power. yes, this popular revolt, this revolt of women defending women and freedom can be crushed by your guns. but it doesn't say. and beware, beware, you profiteers and defenders of this regime! because remember, remember the crowds that gathered for the presidential election of 1997 when your people were able to vote for a candidate of change. remember the months of revolt against the fraudulent re-election of mahmoud ahmadinejad in 2009. remember the scale of the 2019 and 2020 protests. remember the 8 million signatures against the execution of political prisoners, remember, and you will see that the iranian anger against your bloodthirsty dictatorship is growing. remember, and you will see your end approaching.
mr president, we owe moral and unanimous support to the revolt of the women of iran whose courage has moved the world. by burning their islamic veils, these women directed their anger at the symbol of oppression practiced by the mullahs' regime. what these protesters reject is a society that makes women by nature, from birth to death, an inferior being to men. but it is the duplicity of the european commission that i wish to point out today. you condemn the darkness in iran, but you make it small scale in europe. i want to take this official communication from the european commission, for example, which presents a veiled girl whom you have made disappear in a disaster when whistleblowers have rightly denounced her. in iran, women burn their veils, in europe, you wear it as a banner. this is not an isolated incident. it is part of a context of assumed entrism of the islamist shops to which you dare to offer money drawn from the pockets of european taxpayers. i am thinking of the femyso association, an offshoot of the muslim brotherhood, to which you are rolling out the red carpet in the very heart of the european institutions. your relativism, your refusal to accept the identity of our nations, your dogmatic support for a policy of mass immigration, your disguised funding of enemy associations are putting our continent in the waiting room of islamism. our continent, the continent of greek philosophy, of roman law, of reason, our continent shaped by centuries of intense christian faith must remain the continent of free men and women. it will never be the time of the islamic veil, of submission and obscurantism.
mr president, what hypocrisy in the debate in this house tonight. while iran is torn apart by the protests triggered by the death of mahsa amini, arrested and murdered by the morality police for refusing to cover her head with an islamic veil, the european commission, supported by the majority here, continues to promote the same veil, daring to say, and i quote, freedom is in the hijab. while diversity is beautiful, the veil has never been or will be a symbol of freedom. in iran, women are beaten to death, others risk their lives in protest, and european institutions are devising communication campaigns that the islamists in power in tehran would not deny. already in 2021, they were presenting the hijab as a symbol of freedom chosen by women. posters said: "my scarf is me" or "with the veil, i can be myself without hiding". what is your support worth to iranian women risking their lives to be free to walk around with their heads uncovered? mr borrell, enough of the commission's duplicity. enough of the hypocrisy of the islamic veil. it has always been and will always be an instrument of oppression of women by men.
mr. president, mahsa amini, 22, was killed in tehran. brutal death by the vice squad for a lock of hair that was too long for her scarf. a feminist shockwave has spread in iran and around the world, as in afghanistan, where women also protested. a revolt led by iranian women, along with men and children against this dictatorship that violates their rights, oppresses and kills them. i salute the courage of these women who are demanding their right to freedom despite state intimidation, assault, rape and murder. the brutality of the repression is obviously a sign of the regime's fear of the scale of the uprisings. we must extend and update sanctions against regime officials who are complicit in human rights abuses in iran. the un must open an investigation into the violence and killings of the protesters. we are and we should all be mahsa amini. to all the women who carry the hope of a new world, let us rise up to carry the voices of our iranian sisters: (the speaker uses a slogan in an unofficial language) - women, life, freedom.
mr president, the whole world has a lesson in courage from mahsa amini, hadis najafi, ghazale chelavi and so many others who risk and lose their lives all over iran simply to not live in hiding, captive to a veil that is imposed on them in the name of islam, even when they cry out that they did not choose it. these young women, in their 20s, are giving europe a lesson in courage. and this continent, which has carried in its history the demand for freedom of conscience and has paid so dearly for it every time it has forgotten it, must do everything to protect them. you do not know, mr high representative, whether the word 'sanction' is the right one: it does not matter, as long as you act to show the iranian criminals that europe is not silent in the face of the murder of the youth of their own country. but let's start by not betraying these women ourselves: this parliament voted last june a resolution that refused any ban on the veil, any discussion about the veil, in the name of intersectionality. where was the left, so quick to criticize religion? where were the feminists who are driving out patriarchy in our countries and in the united states? everyone was indifferent when we denounced the campaign, funded last year by the commission, which proclaimed that "freedom is in the hijab". doesn't all this make us angry, does it make you angry now? bringing joy. accept the hijab: that was the slogan of the council of europe. leaders of the council of europe, are you ashamed? will you ask forgiveness when you think of mahsa, hadis, and ghazale, who died for shouting that hijab is oppression? it is time to finally shed light on the strategies of intolerance and the guilty complicity which led to these terrible denials.
mr president, 'to call things by their wrong names is to add to the misery of the world', wrote albert camus. in this respect, mr high representative, the european union has been unable to say clearly what is happening in the south caucasus. what is happening is that since september 13 azerbaijan has entered by force into the internationally recognized territory of armenia. this military aggression came just days after a meeting between president aliyev and prime minister pashinyan under the auspices of council president charles michel and as both sides reaffirmed their commitment to a negotiated peace. ilham aliyev has not only attacked armenia, he has also humiliated the european union, by not taking into account the commitments he had made to the president of the council. europe does not grow when it is despised. mrs von der leyen was not exaggerating when she described azerbaijan as a 'reliable partner'. your own special envoy, toivo klaar, is no more credible when, faced with the execution of armenian prisoners at close range, he hesitates to describe the crime and omits the name of the attackers - the azerbaijani soldiers. when are we going to clarify our speech, mr high representative?
mr president, the aggression against armenia by azerbaijan is similar to and follows from the aggression against ukraine by russia. because moscow is undermining the international order, baku no longer sees any reason to respect it, and because russia is weakened in ukraine, it is unable to protect armenia - which it was already doing badly. we cannot stand by and watch armenia be attacked by its neighbour and abandoned to its fate by russia. we must support the deployment of observers, work towards a definitive border, the immediate return of all prisoners and independent documentation of war crimes. the principles and values we stand for are the same from kiev to yerevan. will you be mobilizing, mr high representative?
mr president, mr high representative, my question will be simple and very direct: which is more important to you, azerbaijani gas or armenian blood? i think i already know the answer, because mrs von der leyen, the president of the european commission, signed an agreement to double the amount of gas imported from azerbaijan without ever formally taking the side of the armenians attacked on their land. in recent days, authenticated videos have emerged of the summary and savage execution of armenian soldiers by azerbaijani troops. what are you waiting for? what are you waiting for to point the finger at this dirty war waged by baku? without american guidance, has europe become incapable of taking a stand in world affairs? or is it because of the fear of denouncing turkey, a nato member that directly supports azerbaijan's ambitions? i do not blame you for seeking to reduce europe's energy dependence on one particular power. we reproach you for your lack of foresight and ideological blindness in doing so in a hurry which sacrifices european brotherhood with the people of armenia. our civilization is burning, but europe is looking elsewhere.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, as the russian army retreats into ukraine, moscow is inventing a new colonial adventure, this time in africa, with the complicity of the wagner group. the latest country to fall victim to russia's insatiable predatory appetite is burkina faso. the country of the upright is now caught between the violence of the jihadist groups and the plunderers of the wagner group. the situation of the burkinabé people is tragic and it is understandable that they no longer know whom to trust. more than a third of the territory is in the hands of jihadists. one in ten burkinabe is a displaced person. in djibo, at least 200,000 residents are under jihadist pressure, deprived of water, energy, food and healthcare. one might hope that the burkinabe army would rush north to help them. well, no, you won't. instead, it was a military coup that took place in ouagadougou. the new authorities, in fact, believe they can do better than their predecessors and we wish them to succeed. unfortunately, the first days of their takeover were marked by unacceptable violence against the french embassy. the french institute was vandalized without the de facto authorities reacting. they are expected to do more than foolishly seek scapegoats. they are expected to protect european citizens and to address the ills that afflict the country. let no one tell us that russia will help defeat armed groups and fight poverty. wherever it is present, from the central african republic to mali, the wagner group is adding violence to violence and plundering resources. russia does not solve african crises because it lives off them, it does not serve africa, it uses africa. but what is happening in ouagadougou is also our failure. we've allowed disinformation to flourish without a response. we are helping burkina faso in a huge way, but the people don't see the results of our efforts. we are offering russia an easy victory that will not solve any of the challenges facing the sahel. it is time, more than time, to rethink our actions in depth.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. madam president, madam commissioner, after the violence of this summer's drought and in the face of the devastating effects of climate change, one of the fundamental questions facing us today is how europe will cope with the next water shortages, and, above all, how we can protect our citizens from the high risk of a water war. for what we fear is already here; the water war is here. as we speak, around the world, from the nile to the mekong, many thousands of people are fighting, with weapons, for access to water. by the end of the decade, 700 million people will have been forced to leave their homes because their land will have become uninhabitable, completely burned, devastated by drought. so what can we do? first, europe must act, because we are collectively responsible for this climate change. what are we gonna do? well, in view of this global challenge, the first thing to do is to organize international cooperation to finance solutions for research, conservation and distribution of water. we also have tools at european level, such as development policy, which must be mobilised to guarantee access to water. finally, we must change our lifestyles: less waste, more solidarity. by 2050, one in two people will face water scarcity. action is a vital emergency, but words are no longer enough. we must act, and above all, act quickly.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, we are going to run out of water soon. what ecologist rené dumont predicted in 1974 has now come true. a violent reality, largely caused by the climate crisis and pollution. inaction is unthinkable, even though the international community has enshrined the right to water as a human right. water is not a consumer product like other products that can be traded. we must reject any industrial or agricultural activity that jeopardizes access to water in third countries. no european company should be involved in these activities and we must be vigilant about the impact of our trade agreements on water. the international recognition of the crime of ecocide is an essential lever to protect the right to water. that is why i call on my colleagues to vote in favour of this report which recognises these elements as they are. ladies and gentlemen, the arrival of water on the stock exchange in 2020 is one of the latest aberrations of a bankrupt system. let's raise the bar for the planet and for the law.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, water is life. unfortunately, it is clear that the french outermost regions of guadeloupe, martinique and mayotte are suffering from water supply problems. the piping networks have not been maintained and the daily distribution of drinking water cannot be ensured. the french government has shown itself incapable of handling this catastrophic health situation. in the 21st century, it is as inconceivable as it is unacceptable that our fellow citizens of the west indies and the mahora, citizens of the fifth world power, should not have access to running water. even today, a third of the population of the west indies does not have access to safe drinking water, especially in this cruel post-cyclonic period after the passage of fiona. in order to put an end to this health disaster, i ask the european commission to apply article 168 of the tfeu to help the people of the french outermost regions of guadeloupe, martinique and mayotte, so that clean and potable water is constantly running from the tap in these three french departments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt about the origins of the war in ukraine. if we can sum up the root causes of the conflict, it was russia, led by vladimir putin, that chose to invade ukraine, to start a military conflict in europe. this important and necessary prerequisite is essential for those in this house who want a resolution to this war to recognise the responsibility of the european nations, france and germany in particular, for their failure to enforce the minsk agreements and the european union for its indiscriminate alignment with the excessive positions of the united states. today, on the proposal of mrs von der leyen, the member states of the european union are adopting a series of sanctions against russia, the effectiveness of which has not been demonstrated, but which serve to justify agreements with azerbaijan, to moral freedom which is unacceptable in view of the heinous crimes committed against armenia. enough of this double standard. the citizens of europe are suffering. our objective is not to take sides in this conflict, but to bring ukraine and russia to a ceasefire and peace negotiations. this is in the sole interest of the citizens of europe, to whom you will have to give an account, madam president, of your disastrous management of our energy resources.
madam president, no one can ignore what the russian president wants: he has chosen to make the ukrainian people suffer, to make the russian people suffer and to be hostile to us. it is now clear that the world has nothing to lose and everything to gain from a defeat of russia in ukraine. a ukrainian told me yesterday: if russia loses, there is no more war. if she were to win, there would be no ukraine. so i say to the russian people and the russian army: stop attacking ukraine, you'll be better off. ukraine does not wish to attack russia. volodymyr zelensky has never talked about denatizing the kremlin. you have nothing to gain and everything to lose from this pointless and murderous war, no reason to die for mock referendums. i say to the people of europe: this is not the time to back down, either in our support for ukraine, because it is working, or in our sanctions against russia, because that is what vladimir putin expects. nuclear threats, sabotage of gas pipelines are just to intimidate us. we must deliver more weapons to ukraine, and faster, because this is where it's happening. if we want to shorten this war, we must hold. with our support, with our determination, ukraine must win, can win and will win. ukrainian slava!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question today is where we stand. the ukrainian counter-offensive was a resounding success, as after the advances in the east, the liberation troops were now advancing towards kherson. on the russian side, on the other hand, a political debacle is added to the military debacle. senior officials of the regime have publicly accused each other of negligence. this is unprecedented in putin's russia, and it tells us that the chain of command and the president himself are no longer untouchable. it is the beginning of a general delinquency also marked by the rejection of the mobilization, the first signs of the emancipation of central asia, the success of our sanctions and the strange and constant affirmation of mr prigozhin, the head of a powerful militia feeding his ambitions. the sun is setting on an aging tsar. he's only more dangerous, but he'll lose.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is more than seven months since the russian army, on the orders of vladimir putin, began its invasion of ukraine. now faced with the facts and the failure of its plan, the russian regime is acting increasingly in a criminal and blackmailing manner. the european union must be united in condemning illegal annexations by sham referendums and must instead strive to bring all the world's major players to the table to work for a just peace. the european political community will meet for the first time on thursday, a project designed to provide a firm anchor for european integration and security in ukraine. let's go in that direction. europe's autonomous role and strong voice can be decisive in avoiding an escalation that would see russia and the united states implant a new cold war bipolarity. we don't need it. it takes courage and ambition. the world has changed. it is also changing the european union, overcoming divisions and working to build lasting peace.
mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! partial russian mobilization, nuclear saber-rattling, illegal annexation of the occupied territories: putin is waging an increasingly aggressive war of aggression. ukraine is defending itself bravely, fighting for itself but also for our interests and needs our full support. i welcome the fact that an eighth sanctions package is now being worked on. but the war is also affecting us in the european union in a massive way. we must do everything we can to bring the exploding energy prices under control. households can no longer pay their bills, the horrendous prices of electricity and gas are driving our businesses into bankruptcy. i welcome the emergency measures decided by the energy ministers. they are an important first step, but they must now also be implemented quickly and unbureaucratically, and further measures must follow. first, we need to put a brake on gas prices without jeopardizing security of supply. the gas price brake does not solve all the problems, but it creates air to raise the supply here a little. secondly, we need a common purchasing of gas and lpg and we need to revise our electricity price index system, as the current situation has shown.
mr president, commissioner, minister, we actually know how the russian war against ukraine will end. it will end in a total moral, societal, economical collapse of russia, and we already see the first sign of it. but this road to collapse is long and it’s lined with untold sufferings and human deaths. along this via dolorosa marches the ukrainian army and peoples of ukraine. in comparison with them, we have a fairly easy walk, but we already complain, sometimes in a unduly manner. now it’s time for us to make some small sacrifices. but making these small sacrifices, we should also be able to open up a perspective for europe in the future. forty-seven years ago the conference of security and cooperation opened in helsinki. the principles of the final act have then been torn into pieces by vladimir putin and russia. we need a new conference. we need to get europe on a new path away from the mortal path russia under putin has chosen.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. putin is threatening a nuclear war. nato warns putin of the disastrous consequences. ukraine is preparing for a nuclear war. these headlines reflect an escalation that has been fueled by the kremlin. putin wants to intimidate those who support ukraine in its just struggle. this can't happen. no one in europe should have the illusion that putin can be negotiated with and that he will oh, surprise restore gas flows and prevent winter cold. on the contrary, the european union must increase its arms supplies to ukraine, because each victory brings the end of the putin regime closer, because russia does not like losers. the european union must concentrate economic pressure by setting oil and gas price ceilings and blocking nuclear fuel exports. the failure to agree on sanctions is a shame, which shows that putin's european friends are working here. it is also unclear why ukraine has received only one billion of the promised nine. hopefully, the five billion that was just signed will reach kiev sooner. glory to ukraine ! glory to the heroes !
mr. president, putin is losing the war in moral and political terms. to their warlike madness their own brave young men say no and flee the country. the international community says no to his referendum pantomime. he's left with the economic bargaining chip, with energy as a weapon of war, and the nuclear threat as a psychological weapon. in the face of this blackmail, the european union must continue to show the same firmness, unity and solidarity as it has shown so far. ladies and gentlemen, this obviously comes at a cost to the citizens, whom we must protect in the face of the energy crisis and food insecurity. we continue to diversify our sources of supply, joint gas purchases and strategic reserves. let us commit ourselves to green energy and implement the agreement on food security reached at the wto last june. i would say to mrs montserrat, by way of allusion, that taxes are used to guarantee the public services which her party wants to privatise. i remind you that this summer the fires were not put out by private companies.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear minister, dear colleagues, for the past ten years, russia has invested significantly in its capability for deep—sea water research, or the sabotage capability, as we know it. for the past three years, russia deliberately disconnected itself from the internet twice without severe consequences for its own economy or society. in the end of this year, internet cables were cut in norway, svalbard, where eu galileo ground stations are present. all this time, this house asked for action, swift action. last week, two, not three, four times nord stream 1 and nord stream 2 were sabotaged. this morning only, president von der leyen announced a new plan to protect our critical infrastructure below sea. she announced satellite surveillance, stress tests and more cooperation. well, dear colleagues, that’s not even close to what is needed. this house has the ideas what is needed, we will put them forward in the next couple of months and we hope to cooperate with you, dear commissioner. boost the maritime safety agency in lisbon that connects european coast guards, navies. make it into a new paramilitary venue. place sensors in our water, use industry data. create pesco projects to technically update our submarines for this task. and last but not least, attribute – make sure that every incident is reported, investigated towards the culprit together with nato and neighbouring countries. thank you, slava ukraini!
mr president, dear colleagues, dear guests, it was great to see such a strong sense of unity here of all, except of a very, very few. i guess it’s clear what should be our reaction to escalation of the situation and increase of the risks. first, this is political support, at least as strong as was shown today, this morning. the second, economic support, i mean, economic sanctions and as well, obviously the financial support of ukraine. we also should not forget the humanitarian part of the problem. there are millions of people in ukraine that have lost their homes and they can suffer in winter, and they count on our support. i also very much appreciate statements of the commission on the energy. very good proposals from the commission can help us to avoid huge economic risks this winter and later, this is very important, and also keep the social stability that is needed for continuation of current right course of our policy.
president, ladies and gentlemen, ukraine is a free and independent country. it is a democracy and it is putin, and putin alone, who, with his illegal attack on ukraine, has brought war back to the european continent. the answer to that, ladies and gentlemen, and we agree, must be: the european union is a great example of this. and yes, we showed that. on the one hand, with the extensive support for ukraine, but also with successive sanctions packages which are intended to ensure that the money for the war waged by putin is turned off. that is why i am in favour of including diamonds in the sanctions package, and i say that as an antwerp resident. we need that same unity, cooperation and solidarity in tackling the energy crisis. and that, ladies and gentlemen, is where the council's unity and solidarity - which have been lost - and the commission's resolve are lacking today. commissioner, please, i have heard good things from ursula von der leyen this morning. it's time to act. put a cap on that price. make sure there's a disconnect between the electricity and the gas price. that will ensure that the support of the european people for support for ukraine remains.
mr president, commissioner, minister, in the european parliament, the heart of european democracy, we reaffirm our unwavering support for the ukrainians. we strongly condemn the escalation, as we have condemned all of vladimir putin's actions. the one to bring back war to europe, the one to organise puppet elections, the one to oppress millions of ukrainians who are not only fighting for their freedom, but who are also fighting for democracy, european democracy. after all these months, ukraine remains strong and determined. today we must continue to live up to the courage of the ukrainian people. let us not give in to the sirens of the populists who spread kremlin propaganda. the eighth package of sanctions is a necessity, a fundamental lever to asphyxiate the russian economy. the courage of the ukrainian people, their thirst for freedom, is a reminder of the challenges that lie ahead. we need to continue working with other democracies to consolidate our strategic autonomy, to consolidate our supplies. and for that, we must be united and strong.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this weekend the president of a nuclear power has called us enemies. the president of united russia, putin's party, directly threatened to use weapons against european cities. members of the same party, members of the russian parliament, have called for genocide, rape, and kidnapping of ukrainian children. vladimir putin, his allies and his party want to destroy us, to destroy our values, to destroy our european model, to destroy our democracy and to destroy our rights - the rights of minorities, the rights of children, the rights of women. they say it, they take it: they hate what we are - a society of safe, free men and women. vladimir putin has not only declared war on ukraine, he has also declared war on democracy. yet in europe there are men and women in politics who continue to support him. the european far-left and far-right have been repeating elements of kremlin language for some months now. one day nato is the aggressor, another day crimea has always been russian. the only thing that's going on right now is that sanctions aren't working. i say to the extreme right of the house: how dare you ask today for an end to sanctions? how dare you use arguments that we hear on russian state television all day? russia is no longer producing advanced technologies and its gdp is in free fall - the biggest decline since the end of the soviet union. you often prefer to surf on the social and economic suffering of europeans, but that suffering is caused by putin's war, not by sanctions. and we are responding to it here in this house, and we are responding as europeans: by reducing our dependencies, by lowering the bills of europeans, but also by sharing our votes in this house - which, by your votes, you are rejecting right here. the question i ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, is the central question that each and every one of you should ask yourself: why are you doing this? ladies and gentlemen, members of the national assembly, the league and fidesz: why do you want to lift the sanctions against russia? it doesn 't make sense . we should all, as europeans, instead be behind the ukrainians, behind the ukrainian people, who, moreover, have made the sovereign choice to move towards europe. when you call yourself a sovereignist and sovereignty is a value of the party you represent, you support the ukrainian people. i have only two hypotheses, ladies and gentlemen: the first - the only one, potentially - is - perhaps - the suitcases of money, the second is full and complete support for putin's political project. the first hypothesis is worth exploring. we have already mentioned this in this house: more than €300 million is said to have been invested by the russian state and russian political parties in european political parties. some, such as lega, still have agreements with vladimir putin's party. as for viktor orban, he visits moscow more than brussels. in any case, if you are consistent, you who claim to be patriots and sovereignists, you who sometimes claim to be defenders of a european civilization and way of life, know that you have made the opposite choice. europe or putin? you chose putin... ladies and gentlemen, i also turn, unfortunately, to the extreme left of this house: why refuse arms to ukraine? if we are for the emancipation of peoples, if we are for the independence and autonomy of peoples, we are with ukraine. but often the anti-americanism of the far left is stronger than the defense of the oppressed. i am even addressing the centre of this house, mr commissioner, our own pro-european camp: why is silvio berlusconi still a member of the epp, after his hallucinatory statements on ukraine? why do so many bulgarian and slovak leaders with pro-russian views still call themselves socialists? and why, commissioner, do our institutions continue to give money to the serbia of vučić, who is also a member of the epp? so, ladies and gentlemen, i will go no further: an international investigation into the 300 million euros will be required. i conclude, mr president, that we as citizens must be able to put a barrier across the links between these political parties. that is why my political group wanted this debate, to clarify the position and proposals of the various groups in this house.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i think that we can be very honest about this: the russians are losing the war on the battlefield, but the russians are not losing the propaganda war. they are winning the propaganda war. if you look to our social media for the moment, what you see is more and more posts echoing the narrative of the kremlin. and the narrative of the kremlin is that this is a war that was started by us to punish russia. and that everything that is happening with the energy crisis today is not the consequence of the war, but the consequence of the sanctions and the measures we are taking. and i know that there is an aid package – mr schinas, you have said here everything that needs to be done, but in the aid package, there is nothing about that. in the aid package is a package where we increase the sanctions against russian individuals from 1232 to 1262, 30 more, mainly people who are involved in the referenda in eastern and south ukraine. but nearly nothing about the celebrities, the influencers, the opinion leaders, the propagandists. already on 29 june we sent, together with the navalny foundation, a list of 135 people that are the core of the propaganda machine of putin to the external action service. and you know how many have been sanctioned? two of them! and since the aid package, four more. we are at six now of this 135. one is dugin, for evident reasons, and three musicians, three singers. that is what we have done, six in total. so my question is: if it is all true, what you are saying, why are the commission and the council not going after the core of the propaganda machine, tackling the 135 people in russia? and secondly, if we talk about countering putin, and the putin propaganda machine inside our own european union, let us not make agreements, government agreements and government coalitions with the cheerleaders of putin like mr salvini or mr berlusconi even. but mr salvini was even better with his t-shirt on the kremlin showing his support for putin. well, you are from the ppe i think, mr schinas, maybe it’s a good moment now to say to your friends in the ppe, not to make a coalition agreement with these cheerleaders of putin in italy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since 2014, russia has been secretly transferring rivers of money to parties, associations and individuals in different countries to create a network of influence and consensus. the european parliament has also dealt with the relations between the kremlin and european political forces, on which we want more depth and clarity. this picture shows the threat posed by the activities of those who amplify the propaganda system of authoritarian regimes such as putin's in europe. fake news and online disinformation are dangerous tools of war policy to undermine support for ukraine, shape public opinion and interfere with democratic processes. more efforts are needed to counter hidden funding from foreign regimes, to strengthen fact-checking practices and cooperation of social media platforms with authorities. the security of europe depends on its ability to defend itself against foreign interference, but above all on an inevitable peace process to which the whole union must strive unreservedly.
the respected chairman! you guys! the russian invasion of ukraine is not just a military confrontation. it's also an information war. the disinformation lab recently published a study on the network of kremlin influence operations that have been disseminating pro- and anti-ukrainian information in germany, france, italy, ukraine, latvia and the united kingdom since may. a recent state department report reveals that since 2014, the kremlin has invested $300 million in funding political parties and politicians in more than 20 countries. moscow is devoting increasing resources to undermining the democratic systems of european countries and influencing national politics by supporting favourable candidates in elections and gaining influence within political parties. both of these reports confirm that russia is waging a massive information war against us. the economic and political influence of the putinist societies in europe is poisoning our democracy, dividing our society and holding back victory in war. colleagues, we need to build a strong european union structure to prevent hybrid threats, and we need to strengthen the capacity of our institutions and expand their powers to identify and hold accountable putin's allies at home. the digital ecosystem of the european union needs to be improved by including sanctions against the perpetrators and implementers of malicious disinformation operations. that is what i expect from the promised pact for the protection of european democracy.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, they call themselves patriots and serve a foreign tyrant. they call themselves truth seekers and they report the most vulgar fake news. they're taking orwell's word and stripping the words of their substance, abolishing the principle of non-contradiction. they are putin's digital, political, media surrogates. they're not in kherson or donetsk. no, they're in their living rooms or on our tv sets. but they also contribute to the russian war effort by denying its crimes and relaying its lies. they are often far-right, like matteo salvini or marine le pen, but not always. they also sometimes come from the left, like ségolène royal, or from the right like silvio berlusconi. in times of peace, they're either liars or useful idiots. in wartime, they're the enemy's accomplices. ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: this war did not begin on 24 february 2022 and it is not confined to the borders of ukraine. this war is not just about kiev, kharkiv or kherson. this so-called hybrid war is aimed at our democracies. for many years, the russian regime has waged a hybrid war against our democracies by playing on their vulnerability, seeking on the one hand to weaken their immune defenses through corruption of their elites and on the other to plunge them into chaos by supporting populists and conspiracy theorists. in the special committee on foreign interference, which i have the honor of chairing, we have analyzed, dissected this war that our leaders have long refused to see. this war abolishes the differences between the virtual and the real, the inside and the outside, foreign policy and domestic policy. it's time to rise to the level of the peril we face. while the eu estimated, before the invasion of ukraine, that russia was funding disinformation at €1 billion and mobilizing more than a thousand full-time human resources, the eu now has a budget of only €11 million and 41 staff to respond to this threat. we need to invest heavily in surveillance, detection, responding to attacks coming from russia. let us take the president of the commission to speak before parliament. we will not allow any trojan horse launched by an autocracy to attack our democracies from within. we have to act now. we have no choice. we have no right to offer putin victory at home that the ukrainians refuse him at home. the issue is not just ukraine's freedom, it's ours.
mr president, we have already heard a great deal about the collaborators in europe and even in this parliament - we had an example of this just now - who are carrying out the propaganda of a russian president who is openly hostile to us. i would like to make a few suggestions today, not to repeat myself. let us begin with those of the europeans, for there are some who have acted as guarantors of the sham referendum by improvising themselves as observers of a masquerade. i propose that they be subject to european sanctions, as well as the organisers of these electoral parodies. secondly, we were happy to see rt and sputnik suspended in europe, but many fake experts flood our screens without saying their ties to russia. information is too valuable to ignore what's in it. i would encourage the media to systematically display who the people they invite work for, ex-military, ex-diplomats, pseudo-journalists but real businessmen of influence. i am also surprised that eutelsat continues to spread russian propaganda by broadcasting via four satellites more than 300 russian television channels and some 50 radio stations to 15 million russian households. it's not the time to... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, in october 2011, marine le pen said, and i quote: 'i admire vladimir putin'. february 2014, putin invaded the crimea. marine le pen said, and i quote again: 'crimea has always been russian'. seven months later, in september 2014, marine le pen received a loan of 9 million euros from a russian bank. she's eating out of putin's hand. february 2022, putin invades the rest of ukraine, marine le pen campaigns against sanctions. i am speaking here of marine le pen, but unfortunately i could mention others. matteo salvini, viktor orban, and him again, women and men who spread lies and propaganda, whether in their speeches or on social networks. women and men who act in the interests of russia far above the interests of their homeland. in short, let's say it's the fake patriots. these false patriots are responsible for our insecurity, which they are fuelling by trying to divide europeans against the invader. it is therefore our duty, ladies and gentlemen, as democrats, to defend our values. no compromises with the pro-putin, no alliances, no excuses.
madam president, while the existence of a free movement area was supposed to be counterbalanced by the creation of impassable european external borders, which was not the case, while europe was invaded by 2 million people in 2015, while the european commission refuses to fund physical barriers, which were requested by 12 member states, while greece has blocked the entry of at least 150 000 migrants at its land and sea borders since the beginning of the year, while brussels has just forced the executive director of frontex to resign because he wanted to do his job of protecting the external borders of the enlarged union, while the union itself does not stop the funding of european immigration, which refuses to allow people who have fled from this area to enter europe illegally, which is not the case, while the european commission refuses to fund physical barriers, which are nevertheless requested by 12 member states, while greece has blocked the entry of at least 150 000 migrants at its land and sea borders since the beginning of the year, while brussels has just forced the executive director of frontex to resign because he wanted to do his job of protecting the external borders of the enlarged union, while the union itself does not even stop the funding of european immigration, while the european union is still not stopping the funds for european immigration, while the number of people who have arrived here from outside the eu is still high, while the number of refugees, or the number of the number of those who arrived from the eu is still in 2021 is in the high, while the eu is at the 60 million, while the number of those who are in the eu, while the eu, while the eu is still in the negotiations, while the eu, or the schengen, is in place of terrorism, is at the current, the current, or the current what a gap between what is happening in this house and the aspirations of our peoples! the resounding victory of the sovereignist forces in hungary, sweden and italy shows that these peoples refuse to continue down this path. we believe that any enlargement of the schengen area, while the external borders of europe do not exist, is out of the question. we do not believe that the schengen area should be extended, since frontex is not responsible for returning illegal migrants. the protection of europeans is a top priority. the enlargement of schengen would expose them even more. so there can be no question of it.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to be answered, tabled by mr bernd lange on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the results of the commission's review of the 15-point action plan on trade and sustainable development (o-000029/0022 - b9-0021/2022) (2022/2692 ((rsp)).
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think it is clear to everyone that trade policy is not an end in itself. trade is not an end in itself. trade policy should contribute to strengthening sustainable development. trade policy has to contribute to the local people having added value through trade policy. clearly, trade stimulates growth, but if the rules are not right, then that growth misses its target, and sometimes people suffer. sometimes nature suffers, and the goals of the paris agreement on climate change are not being achieved. that's why it's so important that we put trade policy in the right corset, so that we can make it clear: trade is not an end in itself, trade has to promote sustainability. this is a fact which has been recognized over the last decade. we concluded the first trade agreement with a dedicated sustainability chapter in 2011 the agreement with south korea. since then, we have concluded 12 other agreements - with canada and many other countries - which also include sustainability chapters, with strengths and weaknesses. we have agreed in these chapters that international standards are to be accepted - the un environmental standards, the ilo nuclear work standards - that there must be no undermining of these standards for competitive advantage. we have established that there is promotion of special trade such as fair trade. we have established that there is civil society involvement, and also that there is a mediation mechanism. but, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen that these objectives of the five have not always been implemented. once again, to south korea: south korea has committed massive violations of workers' rights. legislation contrary to the convention has also been adopted during the period of its validity. we used a dispute resolution mechanism that took six years, then in 2019, in a process where this panel, this panel of experts, has to decide, which then also decided in 2021, but so far nothing has happened. so there's a weakness. there are a few other points. we therefore welcome the fact that the commission has finally launched a new approach on 22 june to improve and avoid these weaknesses. parliament has fought and debated this for a long time. i myself once presented a model chapter for a different approach in the sustainability chapter in 2017. so now we're on the right track with a sensible approach to implementing sustainability goals through a roadmap with clear interim targets. we are strengthening the monitoring of the sdgs and their implementation, in particular by strengthening civil society through domestic advisory groups, which now also have the possibility to intervene in the process and initiate legal proceedings. and we have indeed built in enforcement mechanisms so that ultimately misconduct can be sanctioned. however, there are still a few questions to be answered. we have not received a model chapter, but only the principles. at the moment, i think, the model chapter is the agreement with new zealand, where we have in fact agreed the principles for the first time. but what about the old agreements, the 12 i mentioned, and the very old one? it is clear that the new agreements which are being tabled here in this house must meet these requirements. can we not already put in place some elements to strengthen domestic advisory groups? and what are the principles for all countries, because you can maybe discuss them in certain areas on a case-by-case basis, but the basic principle has to be the same. and we also need sustainability beyond the original range, especially when it comes to raw materials. trade policy without sustainability is like a car without a steering wheel, and it can go dangerously wrong. that's why we need clear and rigorous sustainability goals.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the commission promised that trade policy would play a greater role in supporting our sustainability agenda, and we delivered on that promise in june by adopting our new approach to enhance the contribution of eu trade agreements to trade sustainable development (tsd). we gave this approach a big boost three years ago, when we published the 15—point tsd review action plan. but we need to do more. the commission believes the outcome strikes the right balance between our sustainability ambitions and the new geopolitical reality between supporting economic growth and promoting values. i would like to commend the european parliament and bernd lange, author of the report, for their strong contribution and support. i would also like to take the opportunity here, also on behalf of my colleague valdis dombrovskis, to address the questions that you cover in your resolution. the biggest focus of the review is on implementation and enforcement. while our approach should remain centred on cooperation and engagement, there may be circumstances where sanctions are warranted as the last resort for serious violation of core labour standards and material breaches of the paris agreement. concerning the methodology to determine the appropriate sanctions, the commission intends to apply the same approach to tsd as to other breaches of fta obligations. the outcome of the tsd review will be reflected in future negotiations and in ongoing negotiations as appropriate. we already delivered in our agreement with new zealand, concluded in june, including on sanctions. as regards your interest in a draft modal chapter, the commission believes that we should not necessarily follow one single template. this does not mean that we will lower our level of ambition, but that we will take account and prioritize specific needs with specific partners. implementation roadmaps will also play a key role. we can agree on roadmaps tailored to the needs of our partner countries, with clear timelines and milestones. we also want to increase coordination at eu level. we need to overcome silos when it comes to implementation. we are in all this together – all commission services, eu institutions and member states. the commission welcomes, in particular, the active role of this house in implementing the new tsd approach. the process of negotiation and of implementation of the trade agreements will also allow for the contribution of civil society. the majority of the actions can be deployed right away, including in our existing agreements. these would include identifying country-specific sustainability priorities and strengthening eu domestic advisory groups (dags). beyond tsd chapters, it is important to mainstream sustainability in every section of trade deals. for example, we need to look at opening new markets for the import and export of green goods and services, raw materials and the avoidance of trade barriers. we should also identify sustainability priorities, even before negotiations begin, including through our sustainability impact assessments. i would also like to mention the concerns you raised regarding possible violations of human and environmental rights in relation to access to raw materials. the commission believes that access to raw materials and energy can be done in a way that respects human rights, labour rights and the protection of the environment, but also benefits local communities in third countries, to ensure that we have specific commitments in our ftas on the respect of multilateral labour and environmental standards, but also dispute settlement mechanisms which will address and include sanctions in a satisfactory way.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, distinguished commissioner, i welcome the commission’s review of the 15-point tsd action plan in this new global geo—economic context, and in this eu trade policy is more important than ever. international trade is an engine for growth, for jobs, and the promoter for sustainability. rooted in international commitments, the eu tsd chapters seek to keep borders open for trade, while pushing for high sustainability standards in third countries. most important for us in the epp group, the tsd review maintains the strategic balance between the future negotiability of eu ftas and the ambition of tsd clauses. ambitious agreements are very important. their efficient implementation is even more important. the inta committee of this house will play its part in monitoring the implementation of eu ftas and the uptake of tsd commitments. the european parliament pushed for strengthening the eu’s trade policy. as we have now comprehensively boosted our trade toolbox, the epp group considers it is high time that we start ratifying new free trade agreements.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate president lange and the other members of my group on the leadership they have given to the development of this instrument and to thank the other groups for the consensus reached on this resolution. consensus, which always deserves to be highlighted, especially in these turbulent times, is more important than ever. few instruments can better represent the principles and values of the european union's trade policy than this 15-point review of the action plan on trade and sustainable development. the commission has done a remarkable job and we have recognised it as such. but we want more. we want this plan to be effectively implemented. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. hence the importance of country-specific roadmaps. we therefore want stricter implementation and enforcement to ensure the effectiveness of the strategy and, consequently, we advocate greater participation and complaint capacity of civil society and advisory groups, as well as greater parliamentary scrutiny, especially as regards the way trade agreements are evolving and in relation to the implementation of the sustainable development clauses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but good practice and compliance should also be recognised. this will help to make our action on climate change and biodiversity loss, on deforestation, on due diligence and decent work, and on moving towards the circular economy and energy transition more effective. finally, and this is very important for my group and for me personally, this strategy must, and will, ensure that the gender perspective is finally fully incorporated into the agreements and leads to greater equality between men and women.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the reform of the sustainable development chapters, the european union will finally use the potential of trade agreements. for at least three years the european parliament has been unceasingly advocating this reform, an essential step towards fairer, more equitable trade based on rules, but above all on mutual commitment. these are not empty principles or a pretty formula. with this reform, any violation of the paris agreement or our social standards will be punishable. it is a step forward in shaping new agreements, but above all in promoting profound changes. but we have heard and continue to hear a great deal that sanctions would have undermined the european union's ability to conclude new agreements. i believe that this gives weight to trade based on rules. and i believe, on the contrary, that this reform is a matter of credibility for us and outside the european union. the agreement with new zealand is a start, since it would include these chapters, this new model. but now it is necessary that this part on sustainable development chapters should become a reference. as for existing agreements or those concluded, we must start discussions with our partners to modernise them. we all welcome this reform, commissioner. but we know that it is in the implementation that we will be on time.
mr president, we are educated by experience in trade matters. there is a lot more to it than words and despite some façade voluntarism, despite some progress, i think the commission does not fully respond to the criticisms about the ineffectiveness of the clauses on trade and sustainable development. first, there is a first point, which is that the impact of global trade, of intensifying trade on the climate still remains an unthinking one in our debates. that's almost a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions. in fact, commercial activism always trumps social and environmental considerations, which explains the enthusiasm for the new zealand agreement, when it is a country at the opposite end of europe, the enthusiasm for mercosur, when it encourages the destruction of the amazon rainforest. and what bothers me about the commission's text is that it is still very vague as to the nature and scope of the sanctions in the event of a breach of the clauses. where's the binding? what are the mechanisms? we're not going to starve. lastly, beware of double talk. we cannot say that we are going to defend human rights, fundamental freedoms and at the same time go and make a gas deal in azerbaijan at the time when they are massacring armenians and make a pact with qatar and saudi arabia. frankly, there is a contradiction here that is unbearable, and it must be resolved.
mr. president, i have to ask you... in these times of crisis, europe clearly has an interest in accessing new markets, in having as many suppliers as possible, that is, in having as many trading partners as possible. this could reduce our vulnerability to a third country. this requires the widest possible range of free trade agreements. this would open up more opportunities for european companies and create more jobs. in contrast, this house is creating new and new obstacles to the union's economy getting on its feet. the ep is never satisfied with anything, and we are unable to reach agreements that have already been negotiated, because the ep is raising its expectations of its partners. instead of threatening sanctions, dialogue is more effective, and it can do more than lecture. whether it's environmental protection or social and human rights. we should wake up, europe is no longer the center of the world. if we continue to act as a proselytizer, our global weight will continue to decline, our competitiveness will continue to decline. i therefore ask the commission not to be blackmailed by the ep and to stop creating legislation as ideologically charged as 'due diligence'.
president. - mr president, i see today a broad support for the reforms and the commission's proposals. that seems logical, because they're logical proposals. but that is not the case, because five years ago, when the s&d group put these proposals on the table, there was still a housing shortage. we're not going to impose sanctions, are we? i'm glad that consensus is growing now, because that's just as normal. trade is the most powerful instrument we have in our foreign policy, and yet it is only too evident that we are demanding the efforts we are asking of ourselves, our industry and our people - in the field of climate, but of course also human rights, labour rights - that we are also enforcing in our trade policy. it would be extremely hypocritical if we continued to grant access to our market to countries and trading partners that do not take action against child labour. let me also be very clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we have some work to do with mercosur.
mr president, i need to thank executive vice-president valdis dombrovskis for really bringing this new approach to sustainable development in free trade agreements. it is a big step further, and i believe that we have all understood that, with the eu’s new trade policy review, trade is not as it used to be; trade is not business as usual. trade is to be connected, integrated and incorporated into the requirements of sustainable development. now, one of the deficiencies of the commission’s approach seems to be that human rights are quite absent, with the exception of labour rights, which of course are very, very important and very directly related to free trade. but, on the other hand, we cannot neglect that there are many other human rights issues that need to be incorporated, and this would be my question to the commission: is that going to be taken into account? the delegations of the european union will have a very big responsibility over how this all will be put into practice. an important element there is that the eu delegations must be very open to civil society and other stakeholders in order to get them on board with discussing how free trade agreements are actually implemented and the new requirements on more enforceable, sustainable development. lastly, i have to ask the commission: what is your methodology with the existing free trade agreements, which has not been revealed so far? what are the pathways to include the new sustainable development approach in existing free trade agreements?
a uachtaráin, the war in ukraine and the covid—19 pandemic have caused huge disruptions to global supply chains, exposed european vulnerabilities, and shown that, now more than ever, the eu needs to diversify our trading routes and develop new partners. however, diversification should not come at the expense of other eu policy goals that ensure that producers and trading countries abide by environmental and labour standards similar to those standards, that producers within the eu follow progressive labour and social rights globally, and that protect the commercial activity of businesses within the eu. as the world’s largest trading bloc, we are in a position to use our trade policy to engage partners on important issues. for this reason, i welcome the commission’s additional sanctions, using its trade toolbox for enforcing labour, environmental and human rights standards. it is essential that these sanctions are used in a responsible way, namely only as a measure of last resort. sustainability objectives should not undermine the negotiability of our trade agreements. it would be an own goal for the commission to impose sanctions haphazardly. doing so would undermine the negotiability of our trade agreements and indeed drive away prospective trading partners. the commission’s proposal, i think, strikes this delicate balance between negotiability and ambition.
mr president, mr vice-president, at last, at last, we are beginning to put things right and to stop confusing ends with means. because yes, trade is a means, not an end. it must serve a greater purpose than itself, starting with sustainable development. the commission seems to have heard part of the message we are trying to convey and we will therefore be able to impose sanctions tomorrow on our trading partners for breaches of the paris agreement or of social rights. you're not meeting your commitments to reduce emissions, you're violating trade union freedoms, we're reinstating tariffs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this approach must now prevail in all negotiations under way and in all agreements already negotiated. but we must go further, for example by inserting mirror clauses in all our agreements to encourage the adoption of our agricultural standards, to put an end to unfair competition and to ground our ecological professions of faith in facts. a break with 40 years of laissez-faire, laissez-passer is in the works. this is only the beginning, ladies and gentlemen, of our transformation of the union and its market into a global regulatory power.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the human rights committee was in pakistan two weeks ago, and we had the opportunity to meet the national disaster management authority team and the communities affected by the floods. what they showed us was simply terrible, terrible in the intensity of the phenomena that occurred. in april, pakistan's highest ever recorded temperature of 51 °c in sindh caused a 65 per cent decrease in the flow of the indus river, from which the pakistani population gets 90 per cent of its water. the result was food shortages, deaths, and a significant loss of livestock for meat production. in september, torrential rains engulfed a third of the country, sweeping away everything in their path - bridges, schools, hospitals, homes, human lives. as mr guterres said, this is 'climate carnage'. while pakistan emits 1% of greenhouse gases, the g20 emits 80%. yet pakistan is the first to suffer from climate change. we have to help pakistan. it's not generosity, it's justice.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, mr commissioner, minister, dear colleagues, allow me, first of all, to begin by expressing the condolences of the renew europe group to all the people of pakistan, and in particular to those affected by the catastrophic flooding caused by monsoon rains this summer. special condolences to the people of balochistan and sindh provinces. in september, we, as a delegation, visited pakistan and saw first—hand the gravity of the humanitarian situation. life has become difficult too for over 30 million people in pakistan, with almost 1 million houses uninhabitable. the consequences of the floods are severe for all and have spared no one. i witnessed it at the afghan refugee camp, where already modest houses have turned into piles of clay. pakistan needs our immediate support and humanitarian aid. dear colleagues, climate change is turning into an invincible disaster that is punishing humanity more and more severely. we need to recognise this and take the necessary steps. let us ensure that the eu budget is adequately prepared to meet awaiting challenges and allows us to properly respond to all the humanitarian needs of the people of pakistan.
for the greens/efa group mr. president, why are my people paying the price of global warming? other those are the words of the pakistani prime minister. while pakistan accounts for 0.3% of the world's cumulative co2 emissions, it is one of the states most affected by the effects of climate change. the floods that have hit the country are a climate carnage: 1,500 dead, 33 million people affected without shelter, access to water or food , 7.6 million displaced people and a high risk of waterborne diseases and epidemics such as cholera, diarrhoea, dengue and malaria. the situation could get even worse if the sukkur dam collapses, which holds the country's largest freshwater reserve. almost the entire pakistani agricultural system depends on this dam for its water supply. the commission has released €30 million in aid: that's good, but it's too little - less than €1 per person affected. damage is estimated at $10 billion. we are responsible for global warming and its consequences. we cannot be satisfied with such weak support. so this disaster must also make us question whether we can take global action in the long term: increase our support for adaptation and prevention policies, set up a protective framework for climate displaced people, adopt an effective mechanism for loss and damage at international level, as the southern states are asking for in the climate negotiations. we will face more disasters in the years to come. if necessary, one-off responses on a case-by-case basis are not sufficient. let's really do something.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i naturally join in the condolences that have been expressed to the people of pakistan and to the victims of one of the weather disasters that unfortunately occurs repeatedly. i am associated with this tribute and condolences and i would like to stress two or three points which i consider important. we must help pakistan for the sake of our european nations. it is an important partner and has a major role to play in restoring peace and prosperity in a region where the future of the world is likely to be at stake. pakistan was present at the samarkand conference, it is an important member of the shanghai cooperation organisation, and the european union and european nations must deepen their relations with pakistan. the dramatic circumstances in pakistan are naturally an opportunity to see who are the friends, who are the relatives. and in this respect i can only applaud the efforts of the indian foreign minister, who told me that his country had given over $25 million in aid to a state traditionally considered an enemy. i would then like to stress that while climate change is naturally an urgent issue, its effects will only be felt in the medium and long term. we must work to prevent major climate risks. we must challenge infrastructure models that are not adapted to the terrain and habits of the local population. we must revise building methods that ignore traditions and that ignore the experience of centuries of people facing harsh environments and difficult conditions. all of this is of course related to the conditions of trade, but all of this is also related to the conditions of a clearly unsustainable economic model. i hope that the european union will make ecological expertise a priority in its efforts to deal with major environmental risks.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for your valuable comments and insights. this debate has highlighted how humanitarian needs and climate change are connected. extreme weather events are also creating new humanitarian crises across the globe, like the one unfolding in pakistan today. investments in building resilience are paramount, and this message resonated strongly at the recent un general assembly in new york. access to finance is equally important. the european union is the world’s biggest donor of climate finance to developing countries, and we will continue to scale up our support. the european union and member states support many activities to avert, minimise and address loss and damage via development cooperation, disaster risk reduction and humanitarian aid, as well as for dedicated climate finance organisations and initiatives inside and outside the united nations framework convention on climate change regime. we will continue to rally the international community to join forces and to strengthen international cooperation in pursuit of the goals of the paris agreement. we need more donors to contribute to climate action. the european union alone will not solve the climate crisis. the european parliament is a very important partner in these efforts, and i wish to thank you again for this debate.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you very much for this debate, which once again shows the importance of disaster risk reduction. i would like to stress once more that disaster risk reduction is high on the agenda of the czech presidency, especially from the perspective of humanitarian assistance, development, cooperation and civil protection. as already mentioned, we aim at adopting council conclusions on disaster risk reduction by the foreign affairs council in november. these conclusions will not only reaffirm our commitments within the sendai framework, in particular as regards international cooperation in the context of fragility of climate, but also will set an agenda for the future. the views expressed here today are certainly useful for the debate we are currently having in the council. thank you very much once again for your attention and for this fruitful debate.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in haiti, in particular as regards gang violence (2022/2856 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the humanitarian situation in haiti has deteriorated due to political instability and persistent insecurity. since the assassination of president jovenel moïse in july 2021, various organized gangs have been gaining increasing power, creating a sense of danger for the population. the increase in violence and the escalation of human rights abuses are weakening the government and its actions, which are already affecting more than 1.5 million people in a situation of genuine humanitarian catastrophe. with this resolution we again call the attention of the international community to this tragedy. we call on the parties involved to take a focus that enables law enforcement, the fight against these violent organizations and their connection with political actors, the improvement of the control of illegal weapons and, at the same time, the investment of resources in socioeconomic projects that generate prosperity. finally, we insist that transparent, free and fair elections be held in accordance with international standards.
author. – mr president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, haitians have become hostages to widespread organised gang crime. their future is determined by criminals seeking only personal gain. the deterioration of the humanitarian situation in the country is devastating. insecurity and lawlessness have taken over. the covid pandemic, the economic crisis, the conspiracy against the president and the earthquake are the road to the humanitarian abyss. all this coincides with a crisis of governance and corruption that is deeply rooted in haiti. the main hostages of this situation are the haitian people, who are deprived of jobs, security, public services and even daily food. we as the european union must provide at least minimum guarantees for the physical security of the people, for their food security and access to medical services. i also call on the responsible eu institutions to focus on providing assistance to women victims of violence and sexual abuse and on reducing illiteracy in haiti.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a year and a half ago our parliament adopted a resolution on haiti. what happened since then? the situation has worsened. president moïse's assassination, the earthquake, the violence, haiti is sinking into chaos every day. murder, rape, kidnapping are commonplace. there is terror in port-au-prince. gangs control the capital, acting in collusion with corrupt politicians. the current government has been operating without any democratic legitimacy for months. in recent weeks, shortages of fuel and clean water have led to protests and riots. the country is collapsing under the eyes of the international community. what pretext will we use to justify our lack of action? the united states is playing a double game, violating international law by deporting haitians seeking asylum. the haitian people no longer believe in the promises of the international community and i understand them. i have been witnessing for several months their efforts to improve their lot in spite of all the difficulties. their courage is immense. we must not disappoint them. we must support the proposals for a solution to the crisis put forward in the montana agreement, which is the result of a consensus between many civil society organisations. let us hear the voice of the haitian people, those who are calling for a transition of rupture.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, with each passing day, haiti is sinking deeper into chaos. in july, more than 230 people in port-au-prince were killed by ultra-violent gangs. even ngos are being attacked and humanitarian stocks are being looted by bandits who are spreading terror. as chairman of the cariforum parliamentary delegation, i have always worked to ensure that europe remains a strong and supportive partner for the haitian people. but the extreme violence that is currently ravaging haiti requires the haitian government to take measures for security and against corruption. we here must strengthen our solidarity with the haitian people. europe must not abandon the haitian people, but europe must also protect the european citizens of the region, the west indians, the guyanese who are also heavily impacted by the migratory consequences of this chaos.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, discrimination on the grounds of racial or ethnic origin is prohibited in the european union. yet the european agency for fundamental rights’ second eu minorities and discrimination survey indicates that one in four respondents felt discriminated against because of their minority racial or ethnic background. to address this, in september 2020, the commission adopted a new anti-racism action plan. this action plan includes concrete measures to prevent and tackle racial discrimination, enforce eu equality legislation and improve data collection. importantly, the anti-racism action plan acknowledges the structural dimension of racial discrimination. racism is indeed not only perpetrated by individuals, but can also be perpetrated by society’s institutions. structural racism can be embedded in social, financial and political structures and processes, affecting the levers of power and policymaking. we must therefore prevent racism through legislative means, as well as policy measures, addressing social attitudes, stereotypes and economic concerns. following the eu anti-racism action plan, member states are invited to develop national action plans against racism and racial discrimination by the end of this year. a group of anti-racism experts nominated by member states has already drafted the guiding principles for national action plans against racism and racial discrimination with the support of the eu agency for fundamental rights. this development is important, as the guidelines elaborate ways in which anti-racism measures can be implemented successfully in different areas of life. the next task of the subgroup includes drafting a monitoring checklist for the implementation of the common guiding principles, as well as the creation of a compendium of good practices by the end of this year. a workshop on structural racism with the participation of national anti-racism experts is planned for this coming november. it will deliver a conclusions paper on structural racism, including recommendations for national authorities. moreover, the report on the application of the racial equality directive of march 2021 concluded that member states must provide greater attention to the implementation of the directive in relation to protection against victimisation and the application of effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions. national equality bodies across europe are essential for ensuring that individuals and groups facing discrimination can enjoy their rights in full. we are currently preparing new legislation to strengthen equality bodies, to be presented before the end of this year. the new standards will cover, amongst others, the equality bodies’ mandate, their powers, independence and their resources. the events that happened in the netherlands, and any institutional racism or discrimination by the dutch authorities in this context should be pursued in national courts and before the national authorities which are competent to assess all facts and circumstances, considering domestic law, including national legislation transposing eu law. the scandal revealed the risk of ethnic profiling following the gathering, storing and use of data on personal characteristics and background. therefore, it is critical that such data is protected against misuse and is used exclusively for equality outcomes with fundamental rights and data protection legislation informing the process of its gathering and storing. the commission services understand from the exchanges and from the information received that the racial profiling in question has ceased and that national reflection is currently ongoing. we understand that the investigations are also ongoing and compensation is being granted. however, the commission will continue to monitor the development of the dutch childcare benefit scandal closely. the issue has been raised in the rule of law report of both 2021 and 2022. and in the 2022 edition the commission recommended to continue efforts to ensure a comprehensive follow—up to the childcare allowances affair to address the potential structural issues involving all relevant state authorities. following the adoption of the eu anti-racism action plan, the netherlands appointed a national coordinator on anti-racism and non-discrimination in october 2021. i hope that this appointment, as well as the preparation of the dutch action plan against racism and racial discrimination, will step up efforts in the fight against any institutional racism in the netherlands, not least with regard to the gathering, storing and use of personal data.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'children's homes' in the directive. there are over 25,000 victims and the count is still rising. "we didn't mean it like that" is a book about the payroll scandal, but it turns out that this is exactly what it was intended to be. whereas we know that the rule of law is there to protect the weak, not to foster mistrust. whereas we believe that there should be no room for racism. we must always stand up to that. i will always stand up to that. but the cause of this scandal is clear: it is about discrimination on the basis of nationality. we can't sweep this uncomfortable truth under the carpet. i therefore believe that you, commissioner, can do more at european level than is being done at present. my first question is: do you agree with me that we should ban the use of algorithms by governments that process dual nationality? this can be done, for example, through the european ai regulation currently being worked on. it seems to me that the commissioner could make a statement on this. secondly: the compensation is still far too long in coming for a great many victims. what has happened to these parents and children is also contrary to point 11 of the european pillar of social rights. it is good that the allowance scandal is mentioned in the rule of law report, but i would like you to also speak for faster compensation for parents and children, now.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, two points. first, racism, the scourge left to the exploitation of the extreme right. in september 2021, the commission unveiled an action plan to combat racism. we saw the plan, not the actions. mrs. dalli, when are we going to start the real deals? second, institutional and systematic racism caused or reinforced by algorithms and ethnic profiling. i've warned my colleagues and myself of these dangers, but to no avail. is human dignity what we sacrifice on the altar of technological progress? in the netherlands, our fears and your inaction have been realized. ethnic profiling based on foreign-origin names has led to false allegations of welfare fraud against thousands of families who have gone into debt, fallen into poverty or lost their jobs, their homes, not to mention the 1,000 children who were taken from their families. what will the commission do to ensure that the netherlands quickly repairs what can still be repaired and compensates for what cannot be repaired and that this does not happen again? i simply ask that the rule of law in europe be respected for all, regardless of the origin of their name, the colour of their skin or their stated or supposed beliefs.
mr president, with this resolution a new word has entered the european dictionary: superprofit. i want to say, finally! finally, because we have ministers, like bruno le maire, who still refuse to admit that multinationals are profiting from the crisis. finally, a major cultural victory, whereas our group was the only one fighting to put these last ones to work. but, i'm telling you, we're not fooled. there's no point in taking our words back if you're going to empty them of their content. no, it is not a tax on capital gains if it does not cover all the profiteers, such as lvmh, bnp or cma cgm. and no, it's not a super-profit tax either if it doesn't apply as early as 2022, when profits are at an all-time high. so how can we accept, for example, that total escapes, when the group has made the highest profit in its history and has already paid out more than €2.6 billion in dividends? the proof is that if we don't act, the extra profits will end up in the pockets of the shareholders - who are already full - rather than being redistributed to those who really need them.
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission entitled 'an eu approach to space traffic management: an eu contribution to tackling a global challenge', tabled by cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000035/2022 - b9-0022/22) (2022/2641 ((rsp)).
the european space agency estimates that there is about a million pieces of debris in space larger than one centimetre. this means that 2,700 functional satellites share orbits with 8,800 tons of space junk. the risk of operational satellites being destroyed by collision with drifting debris is very high. in april this year, a correction of the orbit of the copernicus sentinel 1a satellite was necessary to avoid a collision with a fragment of a rocket launched 30 years ago. space traffic management is urgently needed to secure european space-launched infrastructure and to continue to benefit from the services of the union space programmes. the space orbits we can use are a finite resource. we have to keep in mind that in the last 10 years there has been an unprecedented increase in traffic in space. we have many more large constellations. we have multiple space actors. to develop new space programmes, a sustainable approach is needed and space traffic management is one of the necessary tools. we welcome the commission's initiative on the stm and the proposed set of actions, but we consider it to be only a first step. in view of the importance of the mss for the union's space policy, we ask the commission to also advance the related legislation by the end of 2023, including the governance of the system, responsibilities, the necessary set of rules and standards. and just as important, a budget for the stm is needed. without a budget of its own, space traffic management will remain a concept. i am pleased that the motion is on the agenda of the european parliament's plenary, just as eu space week is taking place in prague. i invite you to vote in favour of this motion to convey to the commission that the european parliament supports the union's space policy but calls for swift and concrete action.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the implementation of a european union approach to space traffic management is necessary to protect our space assets and access to space for future generations. indeed, space is recognised as a strategic domain in its own right, but also as a catalyst for key economic sectors for the european union. today, it is estimated that 10% of the european union’s gnp is based on the use of space services. europe is a great space power. we have some of the best players in the world in the field of launchers, satellites and services. space is, therefore, an area of sovereignty and autonomy, but it is also an increasingly crowded and congested area. crowded because the volume of debris and the number of satellites have been increasingly exponentially, and with them the risk of in-orbit collisions and the direct risk to the safety of orbital traffic and the sustainability of space. if nothing is done within the next few years, we run the risk of seeing collisions multiply and with them an exponential increase in the number of debris to such a level that any activity in lower earth orbit and beyond will become almost impossible. this will impact our current activities – copernicus, galileo – but may also affect the development of our new constellation on secure connectivity. space traffic management is clearly becoming a necessity if we want to continue to benefit from the advantages of a robust eu space policy. therefore, the commission proposed on 15 february, together with the high representative, a joint communication for a european union approach to space traffic management. firstly, we will establish civilian and military needs with the member states. secondly, we will develop our operational capabilities, relying on synergies with eu industry. thirdly, we will establish a progressive and adapted regulatory framework at the european union level. fourthly, we will engage internationally to promote cooperation with partners, including the us. the commission and high representative, therefore, welcome today’s oral questions and the related motion for a resolution. in terms of legislation on stm, the commission is indeed planning to make legislative proposals. the scope of such legislative action will need to be carefully discussed. an obligation developed at european union level will need to be imposed on all satellite operators providing services within the eu to avoid imposing additional costs to eu operators only. in terms of budget for stm, we will be making best use of the budget allocated by the space regulation to space surveillance and tracking, which is a cornerstone for the development of stm. this will be implemented in synergy with the budget under horizon europe. in terms of research and innovation for stm, the commission has been carrying out a range of activities – be it through horizon, be it via the eu space surveillance and tracking consultation. in terms of action at international level, we recognise that an international regulatory framework is a long-term ambition. in the meantime, the commission and the high representative proposed to engage with key partners with existing and emerging stm capabilities to promote cooperation across regions in view of contributing to a global effort.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the change of era in europe is also a special change of era for european space travel. russia is known to have terminated cooperation in space with europe at the end of february 2022. this has, of course, serious implications for us in europe as well. i think it's really time that we position ourselves as resilient and future-proof in this area. there are more and more companies in the new space sector with great potential. many young and small companies in germany and in all other european countries are also making a name for themselves on an international level. in the new space sector alone, it is estimated that the market will grow to up to 2,700 million by 2040. i think it is therefore urgent that we give these small and mediumsized enterprises massive support here at european level too. as the european union, we should aim to play a central role in global competition and above all to ensure safe and autonomous access to and use of space. i would therefore like to ask the commission today - and the commissioner has already said a number of things on this - what is the commission's position on the question of the use of the euro as a currency? how will the commission, with a view to developing space traffic management, remove the bureaucratic obstacles, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, so that in future the competitiveness of these enterprises and of the major players in this market, which are based in europe, will be maintained?
the oral question we are debating today, mr president, mr commissioner, on how the european commission intends to put into practice the measures proposed in its communication of 15 february this year on the european union's approach to space management and traffic and the union's contribution to overcoming the global challenge, could not be more timely and topical. as the representative of the socialists and democrats in the negotiations on the european space programme, i can testify to the efforts made by the european parliament to ensure adequate funding for initiatives which are crucial to the union's strategic autonomy. initiatives and programmes in areas such as connectivity, tracking and positioning, which are key to sustainability, security and shared management of the geospatial territory. space traffic management contributes to ensuring the safety, reliable and autonomous access to and long-term sustainability of outer space and to promoting and ensuring the continuity and competitiveness of the space industry in the european union. it is therefore essential to invest in new technologies that provide safe solutions with regard to space traffic, congestion and collision risks. all this is acknowledged in the joint communication of 15 february. however, nearly eight months passed, and an invasion of a sovereign country in europe took place. the war economy we live in does not tolerate delays or slow implementation mechanisms in crucial policies, such as space policy. that is why it is so important to ask the commission for concrete answers to the questions raised in this oral question. questions on the european regulatory framework, technical options, including automated collision avoidance, research and innovation priorities, budgetary commitments and the possible adoption of an international regulatory framework. we expect clear and mobilizing responses. that's what's decisive.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more than a million pieces of debris over one centimetre in size are currently drifting over the earth. it is expected that over the next decade, more than 20 000 new satellites will be launched. and the space race is expanding to other actors and other fronts. it is estimated that technological innovation will make it possible, and already today and very soon, for tourism, space mining. with this proliferation of space activity, which is undoubtedly promising, the challenges to be faced are also growing. these include the risks of collision and overlapping orbits. the european union must therefore act - and in my view - on four fronts. first, by establishing a comprehensive regulatory framework of rules in these matters. secondly, by cooperating and articulating with other regions and nations involved in the space area. thirdly, by increasing funding for a very useful but hitherto underfunded programme, the eu sst, responsible for space surveillance and tracking. finally, by increasing investment and giving priority to scientific research and innovation in the area of space, diversifying funding sources and focusing on synergies between space programmes and the horizon europe science and innovation programme.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, our skies are being filled with space debris and we are doing nothing. each year, new satellites are launched into space, while others, too old, reach the end of their life and become space debris. in addition, traffic management is virtually non-existent, as not all satellites are identified, whereas this should be as natural as air traffic control. with this text, we demand that the european commission propose a law on space traffic, and this before 2024, both at the regulatory level and at the capacity level. the european union must also take global leadership on this issue at the level of the united nations, because without international cooperation, our efforts to avoid, among other things, space debris will be in vain. the solutions are there to make space more sustainable. it is time to implement them now, under the leadership of europe.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rise of modern agriculture has built its success on three pillars: mechanisation, pesticides and synthetic fertilisers, with total disregard for the impact of these practices on climate, biodiversity and health. however, current knowledge shows how harmful these practices are in relation to these fundamental issues, as well as the damage they cause to the fertility of the soil, which is the guarantor of food sovereignty. this calls for a global approach as well as a long-term vision. the war in ukraine exacerbates this situation, with speculation in basic foodstuffs and soaring energy prices, as the prices of these pesticides and synthetic fertilizers are closely correlated with those of energy, from which they are directly derived. the vulnerability of this model is compounded by the economic difficulties faced by farmers who are too dependent on these inputs, which have become scarce and overpriced. it also shows the dependence of agriculture on putin and the fossil resource powers. for all these reasons, we must therefore break away from these dependencies, imagine and build a post-oil agriculture and recover the virtues of an autonomous agriculture, the strategic basis of which will be the fertility of the soil guaranteed no longer by oil derivatives, but by the robust responses offered by agronomy. this is why environmentalists, unlike the conservatives, who refuse to face the real impasse in which these 'old-fashioned' logics find themselves, consider it urgent not to delay the objectives, ambitions and trajectory of the 'farm to fork' strategy, particularly as regards the dosage of fertilisers, a necessary bifurcation if we want to meet the challenges of climate, biodiversity and health, but also ensure decent incomes for farmers and sustainable food sovereignty. in this europe built to guarantee peace, agroecology, my dear colleagues, is also peace.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in the price of fertilisers shows us how vulnerable we are. did the european union think it could control globalisation? did she believe that the vast global system would irrevocably bring peace and prosperity? the dream is over! the interdependence you celebrate is above all intervulnerability. the return to reality is painful: production costs and the energy crisis keep the price of fertilisers at a very high level. the result is skyrocketing food prices, which are pushing millions of europeans into precariousness and poverty. i, as a guadeloupean, from an outermost region, already disadvantaged, can testify to this more than anyone else today. our industrialists and farmers are helpless, exhausted by so much uncertainty. we are all being told: how could we have become so dependent on international markets and certain third countries? how could the european union have allowed this to happen? the solution, we know it: is to recreate production capacities here in europe - a finding we already made during the health crisis - is to stop promoting total freedom of markets without regard for the places of production, is to limit the excesses of globalisation, return to a local and rooted vision, re-industrialize our continent in strategic sectors and regain control of our destiny. this is a vital necessity, and this is what my compatriots in the five overseas departments expect from the european institutions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since man has been man, he has been in control of nature and has been producing his food by agricultural gestures, by using fertilisers. the use of fertilisers is not linked to industrial agriculture, but is inherent in the development of agriculture, and has been for tens of thousands of years. fertilizers are therefore essential, because without them there is no viable and sustainable food chain in our union. i would remind you that even before the war in ukraine broke out, more than 16 million europeans were receiving food aid. for our food sovereignty, for every european to have access to quality food, we must therefore have a strong european strategy on fertilisers. i would like to thank president macron for his operation to save fertilisers at the united nations, including for the most disadvantaged countries. in europe we must act quickly. in the short term, by diversifying supply sources and by paying part of the surplus profits of the electricity companies to the european fertiliser industry to help it cope with the rise in gas prices; in the long run... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2021 the european commission funded a communication campaign on the islamic veil, which stated, among other things, that, i quote, 'freedom is in the hijab'. these words are unjustifiable at a time when so many women, in iran and around the world, are risking their lives, are being killed because they are resisting the oppression imposed on them. europe's message cannot be to answer them. this was another of the commission's campaign slogans: "bring joy. accept the hijab. other our parliament must demand that all such communication be stopped immediately. we owe it to the memory of mahsa amini, of all the women who were killed and of those who risk their lives today, in the name of freedom. we, along with many colleagues in our group, would like to put to you the following amendment: (applause) 'expresses its deep concern that the commission has recently financed or co-financed campaigns promoting the islamic veil, saying for example that, i quote, 'freedom is in the hijab'; stresses that the european institutions should not fund any future campaign that could promote the hijab; other
on behalf of the envi committee mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, less than a week ago, last monday, in this very house, the european parliament voted by a very large majority in favour of my report on 'serious crossborder threats to health'. this is a real health emergency plan: we have learned the lessons of the health crisis and have decided to build a health europe that is solidary, coordinated, independent and sustainable. it is now the duty of the covi committee, of this parliament as a whole, of the european commission and of the council not to repeat the same questions, but to ensure that the legislative provisions of this regulation are swiftly and fully implemented. in solidarity, let us join our efforts to ensure that the international treaty on pandemics is swiftly put in place, so that the threat of a pandemic is taken into account at global level. in terms of coordination, the revised mandate of the european centre for disease prevention and control, dear joanna, gives it additional powers for the collection and sharing of digitised data and enhanced protection against disinformation. we shall have to make sure of that. to ensure better preparedness for future crises, we will need to implement the principle of global health as well as prevention and health education. on the issue of independence, we collectively want more transparency in joint procurement, and this rule will have to be applied, as well as the exclusivity clause, so that member states no longer have to negotiate in parallel with industry. we will ensure that the health emergency preparedness and response authority coordinates with other agencies. finally, in terms of sustainability, the involvement of regional authorities should foster cooperation in cross-border regions. finally, we will pay close attention to the establishment of the independent scientific council, the absence of conflicts of interest among experts and the consultation of all stakeholders, starting, of course, with this parliament.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the future, with you, is pandemic and vaccine. you repeat it seven times: "vaccination", "vaccination", "vaccination", "vaccination", "vaccination", "vaccination", and "vaccination". you have to be careful not to say that. i had prepared a technical intervention based on your annexes, but since you never answer questions, i will speak for our fellow citizens, many of whom criticize the action of this deaf and authoritarian commission, which spends its time punishing member states who are out of line. we all know that your roadmaps, your little communications to the 27 member states, you get from pfizer biontech and the bill and melinda gates foundation. just look at the award given last week to mrs von der leyen, president of the european commission, by bill gates for her good and loyal services. a year ago, it was the same president who presented the award for best commercial manager to mr bourla, the head of pfizer, who negotiated by sms and obtained the largest purchase contract - 2.4 billion doses - through the european commission. with a unit price of between $15 and $20, the price of a dose is sky-high! even our court of auditors is critical in its latest report. so i have no questions to ask you, since you decide nothing. but did you see that your mentor, the president of the united states, joe biden, said that there is no more pandemic, no more covid-19? how are you going to do that? are you going to sue him for misinformation? how are you going to censor it? and how is mr barroso, the former commission president, now heading gavi, the global vaccine organisation that is a partner of covax and has bill and melinda gates as its sponsors? who will replace him at the end of the year? who else is to be appointed to the european commission?
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union claims that the fight against violence against women and sexual violence is one of its priorities. but it is with great concern that we discover cases of sexual assault which have been hushed up in the european institutions or in large companies. at a time when the european union is supporting iranian women, when the fight against sexual violence is at the heart of our parliamentary debates, it is unacceptable to find out in the press, years later, that a young woman was raped by her superior in the commission offices. she would have received no support, either from her department or the institution. the attacker did not serve any time in prison and continued to receive his salary from the commission. we therefore ask that the following debate be added: 'the fight against violence against women - strong and immediate measures to condemn the perpetrators and support the victims'. we hope that you will support this initiative, as we learn with astonishment of the horror suffered by lola, who was 12 years old. whatever our differences, we must fight this laxity together to avoid such situations.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, one thing we can recognize about the far right is that it is not lacking in audacity and hypocrisy. the id group suddenly disguises itself as a white knight who will come to defend women's rights and the fight against violence against women. it would almost be moving if you weren't systematically opposed to women's rights. where were you, ladies and gentlemen, when it came to voting for mandatory training for meps against sexual harassment? where were you, colleagues, when it came to voting in favour of universal access to abortion rights? where were you, ladies and gentlemen, when it came to supporting the istanbul convention on the elimination of violence against women? yes, you were very busy, very busy systematically attacking women's rights, very busy supporting your colleagues who are challenging abortion rights in hungary and poland. you were very busy, like your former colleague gilbert collard, making disgusting remarks about a woman in the national assembly. so yes, ladies and gentlemen, we do not play political games with women's lives. no one is fooled. you're not gonna be the champion of women's rights, you're gonna be the gravedigger. that's why we're making this alternative proposal that clearly doesn't suit you: five years after #metoo, sexual harassment and violence in european institutions.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what is the difference between these two packages of pasta? none, you might say. well, the difference is their price: 21% difference between these two packages of pasta; 21% increase in the price of pasta in one year. food prices have skyrocketed. eating noodles is becoming a luxury. but i could have come here with frozen meat, which has gone up in price by almost 30% in one year. or with a watermelon: watermelon has increased by 40 percent in one year. or with cookies: some cookies have gone up by 50 percent. between food prices and soaring energy prices, more and more households are tightening their belts. the situation has become untenable. meanwhile, the profits of some multinational corporations are soaring, their shareholders are feasting. here in france, an example is very telling: the ceo of total increased by 52% in 2021, while total paid 2.6 billion in exceptional dividends last week. all this while people are struggling to fill their fridges and heat their homes, and they have to choose between putting gasoline in their cars and paying their electricity bills. in the meantime, what is the european union doing? the european union is speaking. she's been telling us for months she's going to do something. and for months, we've been waiting, waiting. here in the european parliament we are currently awaiting the proposal that the european commission should make to respond to the increase in energy prices. we wait, we wait. the european commission has always been very good at setting ceilings - capping the debt, capping state aid, capping the public deficit. but when it comes to capping the prices of energy and basic necessities, capping the profits of multinationals, there is no one left. but now is the time. it's time to cap it. capping energy prices will have a real impact on people's lives. commissioner, mrs von der leyen, president of the european commission, 400 million europeans are watching you. you're the one who's gonna have to do it.
mr. president, children faint in class because they go to school without breakfast. while energy companies are making huge profits, people are turning off the heat in their homes. it's been said before. in porto last year, the heads of government made binding commitments to combat poverty. so while we agreed there that poverty should be reduced, we now see the figures rising again. the present energy crisis must not be used to lower the targets. in fact, we all have to work together to achieve these goals. thousands of people are at risk of falling into poverty and the commission is only putting forward recommendations to the member states. fair is fair: people in poverty don't buy that. we need a solid package of measures and resources to strengthen social safety nets.
madam president, commissioner, today is the international day for the eradication of poverty. just one day, when every day, 1.3 billion people live in extreme poverty, nearly half of them children and young people. no continent is safe. not even europe, especially the french outermost regions: 33% of martiniqueans, 77% of mahorais live below the poverty line. i say to you clearly, we must strengthen the european union's objective of social justice and make every day a day of fighting poverty. poverty is a multidimensional phenomenon: it affects health, nutrition, it strikes from childhood and continues with dilapidated housing and lack of access to basic necessities. poverty in all its forms must be combated. education has a special place, because education promotes equal opportunities. it's a powerful tool for reducing social inequalities. the european union must play its full part in international solidarity to guarantee human dignity.
madam president, poverty is not inevitable, not even on the european continent, where more than 100 million people are affected. we keep saying we don't want to leave anyone behind. but how can we make this claim without making the eradication of poverty the underlying condition, the condition without which none of our public policies could be deployed? poverty is a violation of human rights that must be fought if we are to ensure equal dignity for all. we must not accept that the poorest are held responsible for their situation and scapegoated for all the ills of our societies. extreme poverty is a collective failure, not a personal failure. yet the poorest are still seen as potential profiteers who should be controlled and constrained. in this way, we simply ignore the fact that poverty is first of all social abuse, violence that breaks the body and breaks the mind, violence that ultimately exists only because we tolerate it. this is why we must recognize and combat the existence of social precariousness as a cause of discrimination. that is why we must assess any new directive, any regulation, any public policy project in terms of its impact on the poorest 10%. that is why we must ensure that no law, no budget, no project is conceived without the participation of those who are currently living in situations of exclusion. ladies and gentlemen, the eradication of poverty is a political agenda, so let us put it into practice. (speaker agrees to reply to a blue card)
the answer is 'blue card'. will climate and environmental policies harm the poorest and make poverty worse? no, i don't think so, and i think the opposite. do you know who is on the front line today in the face of climate change? well, they are the poorest, especially those countries that we have looted, from which we still extract oil while they are on the front line facing rising waters and extreme temperatures, also facing the violence that is imposed on their fellow citizens. the situation is the same throughout europe. who were the first to die from coal pollution? well, it's the workers who have been exposed to these impacts. who lives next to the most dangerous industrial sites, the seveso sites? well, these are the people at the bottom of the social ladder, because the richest know how to protect themselves. who suffers from exposure to pesticides, especially chlordecone, and we have just mentioned the overseas populations in france? who lives in shabby homes, where heating is difficult? what population has malnutrition because they are unable to access healthy food? so no, sir, ecology is not just another punishment imposed on the poor, but it is, on the contrary, a work of social equality and a work of dignity for each and every person on our continent.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all i would like to thank you for this debate. i agree with the honourable member who said that every day should be a day dedicated to the fight against poverty. we cannot be satisfied with just one day a year. poverty is a huge mess. first, it's a human waste, but it's also an economic waste. that is why it is extremely urgent now to take measures to ensure that this poverty - which is already very present, as many of you have said - does not spread and that the poverty reduction targets can actually be achieved. it is true that the growing queues at food banks are hard to accept in a europe that is, after all, a rich europe. first of all, and i think some people have said this, wages should enable people to live with dignity. it is also true that all the member states, almost all the member states, have put in place means and measures to effectively curb the price explosion and its impact on households, and in particular on the most vulnerable households. now europe must also play its full part and we must implement courageous policies to limit this price rise, which is primarily affecting households with the lowest incomes. i also heard that there would be a kind of choice between fighting climate change on the one hand and fighting poverty on the other. this is a completely wrong choice because we are seeing today first of all that dependence on fossil fuels, which are also helping to destroy our planet, is actually one of the reasons why poverty is spreading in europe and elsewhere. so it's not a choice, it's a combination of both. let us not forget that it is putin, with his criminal war, who is at the origin of this crisis that causes poverty; that it is also he who threatens the countries of the south by blocking the supply of grain. this absurd, criminal war is a machine, a diabolical machine, yes, diabolical to cause poverty, to destabilize the world and destabilize societies and to divide populations. well, we must actually be able to end this war by supporting the ukrainian people.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. thirty years have passed since the united nations declared 17 october 1992 as the world day for the eradication of poverty, but we must bitterly note that this goal has not yet been achieved. despite the ability to feed everyone on earth, 811 million people worldwide still do not have enough to eat, and 44 million are at risk of famine. 2 billion people still live without safe drinking water and 1.3 billion live in conditions of multidimensional poverty, of which almost half are children and young people. 385 million children, according to unicef, living in extreme poverty on less than $1.90 a day. a growing poverty severely limits their ability to build a better future for themselves, their families and their communities. dignity for all this year's theme is not just a fundamental right in itself, enshrined in article 1 of the eu charter of fundamental rights, but it is the very basis of fundamental rights. the union must make it a moral duty rather than a political priority to ensure that human dignity is respected, particularly for the world's poorest children.
the agenda includes the debate on the commission statement on the rule of law in malta, five years after the assassination of daphne caruana galizia (2022/2866 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for putting this debate on the rule of law in malta on the agenda, five years after the murder of the investigative journalist daphne caruana galizia. on behalf of the commission, i would like to begin by paying tribute to the memory of daphne caruana galizia. paying tribute to his family and to the civil society actors who fought for justice. to pay tribute to their determination and courage. since the assassination, the commission has consistently stressed that daphne caruana galizia, her family and maltese society as a whole deserve justice. it is also - i know - a priority for the european parliament. we have seen some developments recently, notably thanks to the relentless efforts of the family and civil society and the work of various european bodies, in particular europol. the public inquiry into the murder - an exercise distinct from the ongoing criminal proceedings - initiated by the maltese state and leading to the adoption of a report in 2021 has proven to be a remarkable exercise in transparency and independence. it is essential, five years after the events, that the ongoing criminal investigation be successfully and fully completed, and in particular that the perpetrators of this murder be held accountable to justice. the commission remains very attentive in this respect. more generally, we need to protect democracy and the rule of law more than ever. the european union has stepped up its efforts in this regard and the annual rule of law report plays a central role in this area. in july, the commission published the third edition of the report, which for the first time includes specific recommendations for all member states. i would like to elaborate on our recommendations on the rule of law in malta. tarting with the justice system, the report reflects that a number of reforms started in 2020 have been implemented. such reforms, in particular the reform of the system of judicial appointments and of judicial discipline, have contributed to strengthening the independence of the maltese justice system. however, several challenges remain. for example, the efficiency of justice, in particular the length of proceedings, has continued to deteriorate in recent years. several initiatives are ongoing to contribute to the improvement of the efficiency of the justice system. the commission has recommended in the rule of law report that these efforts be strengthened. furthermore, while some steps have been taken to depoliticise the appointment of the chief justice, the fact that there is no involvement of the judiciary in this process requires further attention. the commission has recommended that malta address this situation, taking into account european standards on judicial assessments and appointments and the opinions of the venice commission. as regards the anti-corruption framework, the murder of ms caruana galizia, who was investigating tax evasion, money laundering and corruption in malta, shows that those who help to detect high-level corruption can run serious risks. we therefore welcomed the recommendations of the public inquiry into this murder, which specifically concern the fight against corruption. this includes, for example, measures to better detect unexplained increases in the wealth of public officials. however, we noted in the rule of law report that there has been no specific follow-up by the maltese government on these points so far, which we can only regret. the proposed measures must be implemented. in this context, the commission recommended that malta address the challenges of investigating and prosecuting high-level corruption cases, including by establishing a strong track record of final judgement. i would also like to stress that the commission is stepping up its fight against corruption in the union. as announced by the president of the commission in her state of the union address in september, we will present measures to update the european legislative framework in this area. in this context, allow me to say a few words on malta's investor citizenship scheme. malta is the only member state that continues to run a 'citizenship by investment' scheme. the commission considers that such schemes are incompatible with eu law. the granting by a member state of its nationality and thus of eu citizenship in exchange for a predetermined payment or investment and without a genuine link with the member state concerned is not compatible with the principle of sincere cooperation and with the concept of eu citizenship enshrined in the treaties. while malta suspended its scheme in march for russian and belarusian nationals, it has not expressed any intention to end it for nationals of other countries. as our concerns remain, the commission decided last month to refer malta to the court of justice of the european union. continuing on the rule of law report, the commission has also issued recommendations to malta on media freedom. we recommend that malta strengthen the rules to enhance the independence of public service media. we also recommend to advance with the introduction of legislative and other safeguards to improve the working environment of journalists, including on access to official documents, taking into account european standards on the protection of journalists. since the publication of the public inquiry report following the assassination of daphne caruana, a committee of experts on media reform has been appointed by the maltese government. we are aware that at the end of september the government had tabled three bills on the matter. as the council of europe has also made clear, i would like to emphasise that in this field, effective consultation with civil society, journalists and media experts is crucial in such a process. the commission will monitor these developments, notably in the course of the preparation of our fourth rule of law report. in the meantime, the commission has continued to work in the field of media freedom and pluralism in the european union. in september this year, we published a proposal for a european media freedom act in which we want to put for the first time in eu law safeguards to protect the editorial independence of the media. finally, i wish to conclude by referring to our action in relation to strategic lawsuits against public participation (slapps). daphne caruana galizia had 47 such lawsuits pending against her in malta and abroad at the time of her assassination. i understand that some of the proposals tabled by the maltese government related specifically to slapps. responding also to a call from the european parliament, the commission took action in this area at eu level by presenting, last spring, an initiative to protect journalists and human rights defenders against slapps. the anti-slapp initiative is a combination of legislation by way of a proposal for a directive with non-legislative measures in the form of a recommendation. the recommendation is already applicable. the negotiations on the proposed directive are currently ongoing and the commission is determined to conclude them as swiftly as possible. finally, when it comes to checks and balances, we recommend that malta relaunch efforts to establish a national human rights institution. taking into account the un paris principles, it is the commission's view that every member state should have such an institution. in conclusion, let me say that you can see that the commission is fully committed to protecting the rule of law everywhere in the european union, notably with regard to media freedom and the protection of journalists. as regards the situation in malta in particular, we will continue to follow closely the ongoing reforms. this is part of the follow-up to all recommendations made in the rule of law report, as well as in the context of the implementation of the maltese recovery and resilience plan. we are, of course, open to continuing the dialogue with the maltese authorities regarding these reforms. we will also continue to insist on the need for the criminal procedure regarding the assassination of daphne caruana galizia to lead to concrete results. i take note of the fact that the two perpetrators were found guilty on friday, but that the process is still ongoing as to the possible mastermind. i thank you for your attention. of course, i am now looking forward to listening to your remarks and interventions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the brutal assassination of daphne caruana galizia in malta five years ago yesterday took away the life of a brave woman and mother. but at the same time, it was also a massive attack against freedom of media and against democracy in malta. it shocked europe and the world to the core. prime minister joseph muscat promised to leave no stone unturned to get to the truth. but his words were empty, and his government obstructed justice and showed a shameful contempt for daphne. a public inquiry was only established after muscat was pushed from the council of europe. and the result? they found, and i quote: ‘the state of malta should bear responsibility for the assassination by creating a climate of impunity generated from the highest level, which led to the collapse of rule of law.’ quote end. it is totally unacceptable that a government of an eu member state is partly responsible for the assassination of a journalist. if this is not a serious breach of rule of law, then what is ? the european commission has to step up its efforts to ensure that the rule of law in malta is fully restored, and i thank the commissioner for his statement today. i turn also to our s&d members in this house. please stop turning a blind eye to the shameful behaviour of party members in malta. last friday, the court in malta convicted two men to 40 years’ imprisonment for daphne’s murder. but for us, this is only the first step towards justice. we also want justice to be served against the big fish who ordered the killing and not just who for those who carried it out. we want justice served against those involved in the corruption scandals exposed by daphne, for which she was killed, starting with muscat and his friends. the european commission has to be very clear. the government of malta has to fully implement the public inquiry recommendations. and finally, we want the government of malta to shoulder its responsibility for the assassination and stop impunity once and for all by letting the institutions work freely to deliver justice. we stand to the people of malta. we stand for rule of law.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, thank you to the commissioner for all the remarks, which i subscribe to, and for the dignified homage he paid to daphne caruana galizia. the killing of a journalist leaves deep wounds for loved ones left behind first and foremost, but also in society. and when someone keeping those in power accountable is literally under fire, it’s not the journalist only that is under threat: ae are all under threat and democracy is in danger. today, we honour the legacy of daphne caruana galizia. the day a car bomb ended her life left indescribable damage for her family and friends, but it also exposed the problems of maltese rule of law, as daphne caruana galizia did herself. she paid for this with her life. in order to keep her legacy alive, the wounds to maltese democracy need to recover. we will not get her back, but bringing all accomplices to her death to justice is the absolute minimum and remains a top priority. a lot has changed in the five years after the tragic and indigestible death of daphne caruana galizia. the current government is constructively working on important reforms, and although we understand that change does not happen overnight, we always aim higher. therefore, on several reforms, from the judiciary to the citizenship schemes, as mentioned by the commissioner, we need further progress. in the european parliament, we are proud to hold the rule of law in high esteem. journalists are our most important ally in this, everywhere in europe, and they should never be in danger for fulfilling this crucial role. that’s why working on better laws to protect journalists and prevent slapps needs to be a shared priority of this parliament, the commission and member states – all member states, whether it’s hungary, greece, poland or malta, or any other member state. only when we keep our independent media safe, will our democracies be healthy.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, colleagues, today we honour daphne caruana galizia. first and foremost, our thoughts are with the family. they have lost a mother, a wife, a daughter, a sister. yesterday, many people in malta gathered to commemorate daphne. that is heart—warming because it is a moment for national unity. at such moments, there is no place for partisan divisions, and it is for political leadership to lead by example and to publicly display their unity. that applies to this house as well, because democracy is a common value. daphne died because she exposed wrongdoing, corruption and crime, and nearly everything she wrote about turned out to be true. yet hardly any of those cases have been adequately investigated, let alone brought to trial. justice must be done and the rule of law must prevail. impunity must end – really and truly. not just for daphne, but for all people of malta and of europe. in these turbulent and insecure times, europeans are entitled to stable, reliable, honest government, and journalists are vital for keeping governments honest. they are the oxygen of democracy. journalists must be able to do their jobs in safety. i salute you, daphne caruana galizia. we will continue to work tirelessly for justice and the rule of law. and oh yeah, a little p.s. message to mr joseph muscat: i believe you need your lawyers for more urgent matters than writing letters to meps, telling them what they can and cannot say.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, daphne caruana galizia was murdered five years ago, and yesterday, on the anniversary of her death, everyone seemed to want to honour her life. but are we truly entitled to do so? the truth is, that story is ugly and dirty, and it has left a long—lasting stain on malta’s democracy, malta’s society and that government’s legacy. but it is also a very depressing story because it has revealed the real state of democracy and media freedom across the whole of the european union. sadly, worse, it is a never—ending story because since daphne caruana galizia’s tragic killing, other journalists were murdered in other member states – and numerous others have received threats. the context is always the same – courageous journalists who are investigating corruption cases linked to high—level individuals in government, construction industry, shipping, energy supply, golden visas – the common thing behind these attacks is always the link between criminal organisations, politicians and bribery. and what good has been done to help journalists? well, let’s see. in malta, the police inquiry was blocked from advancing and the legislation to protect journalists is still not in place. for the rest of europe, i have never met journalists who are as afraid as they are in greece; in france, you can be detained by the police just for covering a demonstration, and in poland and hungary, you can be spied on like in the time of the stasi. media freedom is not good in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if the matter were not so serious, we might enjoy watching you discuss your contradictions. the proposal for a regulation on the use of more environmentally friendly fuels in maritime transport is obviously commendable and we will vote for it. but how can you not point out inconsistencies, not just in your approach, but in your model? you are agitating for alternatives to heavy fuel oil, the worst fuel in the world, which is the fuel for supercargo ships, even though your economic model is driving the spread of this type of transport. there were, according to equasis, 57,700 cargo ships at sea in 2018. there are nearly 100,000 of them today. we can see the limits of the exercise of trying to reconcile globalism and environmentalism, to reconcile your theological principle of unrestrained free movement with the just protection of the planet. the opposite of mobility is not immobility, but proximity. your virtuous proposals for environmental regulation will only be credible if, at the same time, you have the lucidity to revise your globalist software, which is by nature ecocide.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these amendments to the regulation to introduce renewable and alternative fuels in maritime transport are very important for our outermost regions, since they are only connected to the continent and to each other by sea or air. anything that affects the price of sea freight is therefore viewed with concern in the five french overseas departments. these new rules, despite the specific arrangements for the outermost regions, will inevitably raise transport prices. the proposal calls for €90 billion of additional costs to be absorbed. in those areas where purchasing power and the local economy depend partly on the cost of freight, you will understand that we will need monetary compensation if we do not want to increase the impoverishment of the people and of the overseas companies. carbon neutrality, yes, but only if it is coupled with purchasing power neutrality. that said, commissioner, we are looking forward to a wave of investment in port facilities, particularly in electrification. but i would remind you that it is thanks to the french overseas departments that the european union has ports in the caribbean, the indian ocean and the pacific, which are all advanced bases for our commercial power and for the decarbonised design of transport that we often carry. we do nothing or little about it. these ports are exhausted and far removed from the regional hubs that some of them could become if they were helped. my dear colleagues, thanks to green investments, we will have the opportunity tomorrow to invest in our overseas countries, in their port facilities and in their ecological transition. let us do it really massively, let us help the outermost regions to develop and europe will only do better.
mr president, commissioner, while france is paralysed by gas station closures and shortages, you are proposing today that we should put maritime freight and everyday motorists in the same bag. one container ship emits as much sulphur dioxide as a million cars. so how can you ask the motorists to make an effort when these supercargo ships are still cruising the oceans? shipping is the armed arm of the globalisation you have promoted and which has now destroyed our industry. the car, on the other hand, is the primary means of transport for our citizens, especially the most modest. in the second dossier you talk about alternative fuels in the car, but again you are manipulating the europeans. your report makes the point that the only alternative fuel is electricity. proof that technocrats are clearly not engineers. where is bioethanol when the price of electricity is soaring? where's the synthetic essence? you promised us the europe of research and new technologies. but you bring us the europe of child labour in lithium mines. as the energy crisis worsens by the day, you have chosen your ideology over the salvation of europeans.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago we voted a resolution calling for europe to turn to the sea. and tonight i remind you that we can make it the champion of green ships and enable them to be built in europe. the text we are about to vote on on alternative fuels for shipping is an opportunity to accelerate all the emerging decarbonisation solutions which are struggling to develop in the absence of a legislative framework and political support. this text is an opportunity to achieve our climate goals. it underlines the importance of the ocean fund as provided for in the framework of the eu ets directive, which will support innovation, but which needs to be strengthened. we need to take better account of the contribution of sail propulsion - to sailing - as a reward factor proposed by my colleague pierre karleskind and make it the engine of the recovery of the european shipping industry, as proposed in my amendment. we need to expand the scope so that it covers almost all emissions and we can test solutions on the smallest boats. we need to include an additional sub-target for the use of alternative fuels of non-biological origin: 6% by 2035. finally, we must set a target of 100 per cent, instead of 80 per cent, of greenhouse gas emissions reduction by 2050. i invite you to visit the exhibition proposed by pierre karleskind in the emilio colombo space, which will teach you much more about the propulsion of the sails.
mr president, commissioner, it is free. it's really renewable. it's really decarbonated. it doesn't cause a black tide. there is no risk of explosion when it is loaded. it has been used to transport goods and people for 8,000 years. this very innovative alternative fuel is -- you got it -- wind. if i talk about wind, you might think of those 15th-century caravels, those 16th-century flutes, or those reeds that were used and are still used. and yet, as my colleague catherine chabaud said earlier, you can go and see this exhibition right outside the house, which presents projects. projects that already today offer the transport of goods in the same timeframe, at the same speed, for the same amount and with greenhouse gas emissions and consumption gains of 45% - 45%, means less fuel and less emissions, means more profits, means more investments and also means more investments for other alternative fuels.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, commissioner, the labour market of today is not the labour market of two years ago. a lot has changed. the covid crisis has accelerated the pace of digitalisation, and the russian invasion of ukraine is putting enormous pressure on workers and businesses today. this situation calls for action. europe must support workers in need and ensure decent working conditions that better reflect the reality of today's world of work. i call on the member states to respect the european standard of decency. so , what do you say ? raise minimum wages, ban zero-hour contracts and regulate ai in the workplace. extend sure and make it a permanent support program. that way we can keep jobs and businesses from going under. i think we really need to provide support to keep jobs. we don't want people to go down. we don't want to see companies go under unnecessarily. and if we are to counter growing inequality, then europe's social safety nets need to be stronger than they are now.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner schmit, in the face of the social consequences of the covid-19 pandemic, the war in ukraine and the rising cost of living, it is more necessary than ever to coordinate our social and employment policies. the guidelines we are proposing and the european semester cycle are a combination of good economic governance and a fairer, more sustainable recovery that accompanies the green and digital transitions. they set the course for achieving the three major eu objectives for 2030 on jobs, skills and poverty reduction. continued reforms and sound investment by member states will be key to supporting job creation and strengthening social justice. we have a duty to support future generations through the effective implementation of the european child guarantee. we have an obligation to modernise our labour markets to make them more resilient and inclusive. we need to ensure quality training, investment in skills and lifelong learning. in the current context of increased uncertainty, support measures for vulnerable households are essential. i urge the council to heed parliament's demands to ensure inclusive, protective and future-oriented social and employment policies that leave no citizen behind.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs alicia homs ginel for her fruitful work and for her cooperation with the other colleagues, with whom we have worked very well. with these guidelines for the employment policies of the member states we propose to combat inflation and its social impact. we can do this. we need a european plan for the training and retraining of workers, who invest in green jobs. it is the ecological transition that creates more and new jobs. if it is lost (for example, in a steel plant that is closing), it can be found in a company that installs solar panels, hydrolyzers for green hydrogen, but it must be trained. we are increasing the european child guarantee fund by 20 billion, we are guaranteeing all children fair and effective access to health and education, adequate housing and healthy food. the stability and growth pact, moreover, must at least be suspended. let us remember greece, the austerity, the "blood and tears" policies of the rigor hawkers killed at least 700 children. the balance of the budget is not worth people's lives. governments then introduce a minimum wage, combat labor exploitation and guarantee a minimum income. i say this also to those on the right in this parliament, to the melonians, the salvinians and the renzians who are opposing this project and these proposals, here as in my country, italy. the battle is unique: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, the european union is never short of imagination when it comes to wasting time and money on useless texts. and what better example than these guidelines? almost every year the brussels institutions waste their time in drawing up these non-binding guidelines, just to give guidance on matters which, in general, do not even fall within their competence. do you think that the member states are so incompetent, so incapable of making decisions on their own? have you gone so far in your federalist delusions that you feel obliged to tell our rulers what to do? whatever is on the table, you have only one answer: no more eu. you dream of her all powerful and present in everything. and in the few areas that we have still managed to preserve, despite your assaults, you allow yourself advice and guidance. this may surprise you, but we don't need your advice. we democratically elect our governments and, whether they are supported or not, they are responsible for governing us. we firmly reject this european interference which is teaching lessons when it should be silent. our member states are best placed to know what they need. in this troubled time of recurrent crises, decency would have you let countries do what they need to do to get their people out of the crisis. the eyes of the people are on you, ladies and gentlemen, and the recent elections have shown their distrust of the european union. it's time to listen to them.
mr. president, i have to ask you... there are few issues more pressing and important to the union than the employment policies of the member states in the light of the current economic outlook. and it's even worse for the poorest of the poor, who have managed to pull themselves up a notch in recent years, because the covid crisis and the russo-ukrainian war have brought economic instability, daily struggles, and it's very difficult to protect the jobs that we've created. in hungary, we promised one million jobs in 2010, and we've been able to create 700,000 of them so far. 3.8 million people worked then, 4.5 million now. and yet, the huge task now is to keep these jobs, keep these families safe. so i suggest that you change, as we did then. instead of aid, we need to give an alternative, not a minimum income or different benefits for the most vulnerable, but jobs. this is the most important thing right now, and don't forget to look at these poorest groups as a powerful resource, and integrate them into gdp.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, we need to invest in our workforce. and when it comes to the digital and environmental transition, our human capital must be at the heart of all our action. for my political family, the socialists and democrats, this is self—evident. but all too often, curiously, we find that others seem to backtrack or to oppose such policies. what more noble cause is there than to invest in the people that make up our society and work for our common prosperity? and that means investing in all our citizens, women and men in all their diversity, persons with disabilities, minorities, vulnerable groups and people who were granted temporary protection. and there will be no better moment to invest in our human capital than in these challenging times. delaying our action will lead to a loss of trust, not only into our common european project, but also in politics at national level. it is therefore crucial that the excellent report of our s&d colleague alicia homs calls for minimum income, universal access to health care, affordable housing, the implementation of the child guarantee, the prolongation of sure, the social rescue facility and fair and progressive taxation. these are concrete actions to support our human capital in these difficult times. we cannot afford to leave anyone behind. until now, our citizens have been resilient. it is time to learn from them, to truly listen to them, and to make our proposals a reality for all.
mr president, commissioner, mr nicolas, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate my conviction that it is urgent to set up a structural social semester. i would like to emphasize a few points. social responses are needed to the great crises we are experiencing, alas! - whether it is the pandemic or war - and i am thinking in particular of the sure programme, which is absolutely important to make permanent to accompany partial unemployment. it is also essential to fight extreme poverty, to continue the fight against extreme poverty. we have set ourselves the target of reducing the number of poor people by 15 million by 2030. i wonder where we are with this grand goal; i don't have any figures myself. it is also important to set targets for the creation of quality, well-paid, decent jobs through the coordination of social and employment policies. finally, as 2023 will be the year of skills, there is a need to continue investing in training for these skills and for the digital and green transitions.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, commissioner, mr vice-president, i would like to express my full support, first of all, from strasbourg today to the french workers who are today mobilizing for a fair compensation for inflation. in europe, putin's war has only exacerbated a social bomb that has been brewing after decades of neoliberalism and a financial crisis that has put our social contract in jeopardy. the present situation requires that we bury the policies of the past once and for all and tackle without complexity the policies of protection, redistribution and ecological transition. we only have to look at what is happening in the united kingdom these days. this new economic agenda is also an indispensable condition for saving our democratic legal architecture from the clutches of a revived fascism which today threatens the whole continent. so there are six issues that i think are urgent: reforming the way our electricity market works, yes, reforming it and decreeing a ban on supply cuts; taxing the extraordinary profits of companies and not just electricity companies; establishing a moratorium on evictions - no one should be left on the street this winter; containing the effects of the rise in rates, particularly on the explosion in the price of variable mortgages; ensuring a shopping basket affordable for the whole population; and, finally, setting up - yes - a new fund for the ecological transition and social protection, as proposed by commissioner gentiloni, among others. we say to the council: this is no time to drag your feet. the brave decisions must be made now.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today, bold and rapid market interventions are needed to protect consumers from the negative effects of high energy prices. for example, the reduction of wholesale gas prices must be achieved as soon as possible. it is necessary to freeze the prices of ets allowances and to introduce mechanisms to limit the increase in their prices. at the same time, the commission should ensure that the strongest countries do not impede competition in the internal market through their interventions and aid to enterprises. but, mr president, we need more than just temporary solutions. the whole of the union's energy and climate policy must be reviewed and changed. in her inaugural address in 2019, the president said that her commission would be geopolitical. meanwhile, this commission, in its high-profile climate and energy projects, has ignored the political reality, as if there were no china and no russia. and that is also one of the reasons for the current dramatic situation: this policy, this commission.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you will have noticed today that france is on strike. a social movement that is growing as popular anger rises across europe. because when the price of pasta rises by 40%, oil by 127%, butter by 32%, and wages don't keep up, meals are skipped, leisure time is lost and families are forced to choose between filling up and keeping warm. so, as i have been since i was very young, i know that i will hear on television editorials on the responsibilities of the unions and reports on the taking of french hostages. of course, it's a pity that we can't take the train, that we don't have gas for the car, that the children don't go to school. but who is responsible for this deadlock? the workers who stand up for their rights? or the handful of ultra-rich who grab everything and cling to their privileges? if you notice this strike, it's because essential jobs are going out of business. now imagine for a moment what would happen if the stockholders went on strike. nothing, not at all. and yet, while the profitable suffer from inflation, the unprofitable multiply their profits, their dividends: plus 52% for the ceo of total who already earns 312 times the smic, plus 28% for the shareholders of european companies. so i ask a simple question here: what if it was them who were recruited instead of the employees? finally, and i congratulate you, the european commission has started to speak on the lips of the super-profits and this is a victory for us who have been fighting on this for months. but as long as the taxation you propose is limited to the energy sector and postponed until next year, the step forward will be really only a very small toe. i'm telling you, we're gonna have to go further. the people of europe expect an immediate freeze on the prices of all basic necessities. as the 140,000 protesters against the high cost of living cried out in paris on sunday, the urgency is clear, what finally needs to increase is wages rather than shareholder dividends.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, nothing has been done. nothing will be done. unfortunately, and to our despair, this european union we believed in so much is bringing us nightmares, poverty and impotence. involved in a war that is not ours, our people suffer, they grieve. the energy crisis has not been addressed as it should have been. the energy pool has been blocked. and today we talk, we weep, we try to be the judges of a war that is not ours. but what is ours, what is yours, what is mine, is the suffering of the gentiles, their lack of money, the cold they will suffer, the distress in which they are. and this european union with its stars is responsible for that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it's a little shocking, we're all playing our old records here. the commission stresses what it is going to do, but it has not yet begun. the council stresses what it will do. but he has always, so to speak, bet on article 122 that the big boys will act. olaf lends macron energy, but the same macron is then the problem, why there are no pipeline connections from spain to france, we demand socialism, we demand the energy transition ... i think we should really come together and say that the only solution to these problems is that we need a common europe. without a deep european energy market, none of the proposed solutions will be realistic in any way - neither common taxation, nor strengthening the supply - because we know that we need the lng terminals in spain to have lng in germany, because we know that we need a deep electricity market. i think we should start today by making a commitment to europe. without europe, none of our ideas will be possible. this europe is the solution, not the problem.
mr president, commissioners, minister, since the beginning of the conflict, the citizens of europe have shown solidarity with the ukrainian people. and that is our duty, our responsibility, our honor. as vladimir putin uses food and energy as weapons of war, our fellow citizens are facing unprecedented economic repercussions that affect everyone, every sector. in response to this, the european union will, among other things, introduce the contribution on the surplus profits. almost €140 billion will enable member states to help those most in need. but let us not stop there. let us set up a european energy shield, limit electricity and gas prices, and make group purchases at the level of the european union. commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the europeans are watching us. let us keep to our course, that of the green pact and that of our independence. yes, let us continue to work together for a europe that is more united, sovereign and green. (speaker agrees to reply to a blue card)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. mr president, i was quite interested in your speech because finally, i want to say you use the words taxation of super profits, contribution. you said taxation of superprofits, i heard that, and i welcome the fact that republic on the move and renew are finally accepting that there are superprofits made by large companies and that they should be taxed. i therefore ask a question: since it is not only the energy sector that makes superprofits, are you in favour of taxing the superprofits of all multinationals? i am thinking in particular of companies like lvmh and the big banks which have also made super profits from the crisis.
the answer is 'blue card'. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament and to the council, and that it is a good thing that the commission has taken this initiative. we believe it is important to focus on those who are benefiting from the situation as we are living it now. for us, this is the absolute priority: to focus on all the companies that benefit from the war, particularly those in the energy sector. then we'll have to see how we evolve according to the context.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, dear stella, the mental health of european citizens, especially young people, is a major public health issue that has been exposed and aggravated by the pandemic. this is a common feeling in all european countries and we have referred to it in the european strategy for care: we need collective awareness, coordinated prevention actions, support for parents, adaptation of our health systems and data sharing. dear stella, we do indeed look at health as an investment and mental health as a pillar of health in general. thank you for your initiative. but if this initiative is not based on robust governance and a proper funding system, then we will fail to deliver a genuine european health policy. health care is a national prerogative. but when a finding is so widely shared, it takes courage to convince member states to go beyond their prerogatives, as they have done in the past.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. madam president, commissioner, minister, in recent years fisheries have suffered several crises that have affected europe as a whole, but perhaps more acutely for fisheries. i am thinking first of all of brexit, which has put a number of water access issues, but also water quotas, into question. i am thinking of course of the covid crisis and then, now, this war in ukraine which has direct impacts on the price of oil and therefore on the ability to restore economic balances. yet the fishing industry was there. the fishermen were brave. they even went to sea at times when it was particularly difficult. so after the disastrous management of the european maritime and fisheries fund 2014-2020, the most under-spent of all european funds in this programming period, well, perhaps it is time to take a step back on the management of its successor, the feampa, because fishing no longer needs to be a simple matter of putting small bandages on a hemorrhage. the fisheries sector needs reforms and deep investments. this investment fund must be really structural for a sector which is in dire need of renewal, because we are not talking here about a sector which needs economic vitality and to regain its strength. we are simply talking about a sector that contributes to our food sovereignty, to our food. it's not replaceable. that is why, commissioner, we are counting on the commission for effective implementation and, minister, we are counting on the member states to finally adopt the operational programmes and to have an efficient and rigorous management of this fund.
the next item on the agenda is a question and answer session with the commission on the protection of critical infrastructure in the eu against attacks and on combating hybrid attacks. as you know, this question period will last about 90 minutes. the time allowed for the questions is one minute for the question, two minutes for the answers, 30 seconds for a supplementary question and two minutes for the answer. i would like to see a very lively debate. question, answer, question, answer, question, answer. we're all called upon. i would point out that a possible supplementary question is admissible only if it is closely related to the main question and does not contain a new question. if you have a question, i would ask you to register your application now, if you have not already done so, by using the spontaneous wording function of your voting machine after the voting card has been inserted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
thank you, commissioner. it was almost three years ago that russia disconnected itself twice from the internet with success – because it didn’t hurt their economy, it didn’t hurt their society. at the same time, they invested about 3 billion in a new submarine, the belgorod, which is for deep seawater investigation. it’s not to win a nobel prize, i can guarantee. the gugi institute was also erected and was invested in significantly. despite the several calls from parliament to do something about protecting our infrastructure below sea, nothing happened, so what we did, commissioner, is ask for an academic study. the universities of copenhagen and oslo created a good study, with dozens of recommendations on what to do about protecting our subsea infrastructure. i was wondering whether president von der leyen has read this great study because what i heard from her was not half of what is needed. i would suggest that we work together on this and reach out to the commission and make a plan for this to even better protect our infrastructure. but the real question, dear commissioner, is this: the favourite weapon of president putin will be gas and it will be alternative gas paths and our lng terminals are being recognised and reconnaissanced by cyber actors from russia at this point in time. i would really like an effort from the european commission to protect our lng structures in netherlands, in germany and in spain as well.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me start by welcoming this debate, i think it is very timely. let me also say as an opening statement that the era of europe’s naïveté and innocence on security matters is over. and i’m very happy that this awakening of the european union to security is something that happened before the war. we have enacted two massive legislative packages: the common entities resilience directive and the network and information systems 2 directive, on which groothuis was the rapporteur, precisely because we didn’t expect for the war to remind us of the need to act. and i think that for the first time now at the european union level, we have a robust set of rules that allow us to align protection against digital and physical threats at the same level of intensity and protection. and this is remarkable. this is new, this is remarkable. is this the answer to all our problems? no. first of all, the political agreements on these two texts have to be incorporated into eu law. but a few hours ago in the college of commissioners, we adopted a recommendation, a council recommendation that asked precisely member states to frontload this new tools and these rules already now. and we are also asking them to enact crisis coordination mechanisms that were absent from the text, because you would remember that the member states resisted a crisis coordination mechanism; we had to fight in conciliation together to make this happen. so to cut a long story short: yes, we are much better prepared than ever before in the european union. no, we are not yet where we want to be in the sense of countering every possible threat, especially against the state actors. but we will get there. and with your help, i am confident that we shall make it.
thank you, commissioner, for that answer. i believe i agree with you, but it’s much, much more than the nis2 and the critical entities directive. it’s about placing sensors in our sea; it’s about connecting civilian coastguard capabilities with military attribution capabilities; it’s also about pesco projects, for example. to make our submarines work for this task. it’s not there yet. and i’d really like to see industry data for any cable cut that we have in europe, to be reported, that you have oversight, insight and then do something. it’s much more than we had, and i’d really like for the commission to do more than the proposal of nis2 and the critical entities directive.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, in our network information system to the directive, we have introduced – you would remember – the specific requirement for member states to include undersea cables in their cybersecurity strategies, so we are going underwater for the first time, and we have a legal avenue to go underwater. i would also agree with you that, given the emphasis on lng as an alternative source of energy to russian gas, yes, we need to do more. the problem there is that we still have to see these new lng terminals emerging in some of our member states. there is expertise around these facilities. in others, since we are constructing these terminals now, we have a golden opportunity to make them security-proof from the start. in our recommendation today, we specifically reiterate the need for member states to work on undersea cables. we have some challenges. you are very experienced. you know that one challenge, one difficulty that we have is the issue of length and shared jurisdiction. these are issues that we need to approach intelligently, not dogmatically; not as lawyers, but as security practitioners. in this new emerging world of geopolitical reality, after everything that has been happening around us, i’m sure that this growing awareness on security under the sea will be something that is a given, not something that will be have to be asked about.
mr vice-president, it is good that this debate is here on the agenda of our plenary session in strasbourg this week. because indeed, for too long we have been blind to the protection, the necessary protection, of our critical infrastructure. it is only when accidents happen that we realize how badly our ability to do so actually is. i think - quite frankly - that the protection of our critical infrastructure in europe will be one of the greatest challenges of our common security and defence policy in the years to come. and for that protection of the critical structure, i hope that we all together also look to partners, to allies, to tackle that challenge together. my question to you, mr vice-president, is therefore how you see cooperation with nato in meeting the challenge of protecting critical infrastructure. so how can our eu-nato cooperation help to tackle these challenges?
vice-president of the commission. – thank you. tom, yes, you are absolutely right. this is a battle that we will never win alone. as europeans, we have to align our brainpower and our firepower, if you like, to broader international entities, work with international organisations and like—minded partners and allies. and this is precisely – when you have the time to read the council recommendation that we just adopted from the college – you will see that we have specifically introduced this dimension, the external dimension on protecting critical infrastructure, working with third countries and neighbours. and most importantly, i think, is the commitment that we have obtained to set up a joint eu—nato task force on protecting critical infrastructure. i think this is a very important, significant novelty. nato is very well placed to help us in that regard. and we also cover the cyber elements, not only the physical infrastructure in this very important task force with our nato partners. equally, we will come forward with a blueprint on critical infrastructure incidents and crises that would allow member states to have a playbook each time a crisis scenario develops or a threat situation unravels. and part of this playbook or blueprint ecosystem would be the eeas – i’m in contact with my colleague, high representative josep borrell, who is preparing the eu hybrid toolbox which has been announced in our strategic compass initiative. so there again, as you see at the international dimension, there is a new alignment of planets, if you like, that goes in the right direction.
mr president, thank you very much for this answer too. i'm glad to see that we're actively reaching out to allies to work together on this. we expect the third eu-nato joint statement later this year. may i assume that all of this will be included in this statement?
vice-president of the commission. – yes, the task force arrangement with nato is something that has already been agreed upon and the actual terms of reference will be announced soon. let me add to this nato dimension that we also need to engage more closely with our neighbours and accession countries. i was in the western balkans last week. i met all leaders along the western balkan road. one of the things that came out very strongly is that they have to be an integral part of our security arrangements. the western balkans and in our neighbourhood countries the threat landscape is equally important and threatening as it is against us. so, we have to create this broader ring of friends that would have an increasingly similar level of protection against any type of threat towards our critical infrastructure and our cybersecurity.
thank you. and hello, vice-president. i have a question on the attacks, but you already responded. my question will be, therefore, on money. i mean, how can you tell us that what happened with germany and the strategic gas storage owned by gazprom cannot happen anymore? and what do we do about huawei investments, for instance, in critical infrastructure? is there any plan to actually address the fact that such kind of companies cannot have any say in our infrastructure? and second point, what’s inside this defence of democracy package that president of the commission came and announced in front of the parliament? we were all very happy about it. but what will you put in it that would make sure that infrastructure that is critical for democracies – like, for instance, the belgian parliament which could not actually have a debate on uyghurs – will not be attacked anymore? what kind of sanctions, what kind of protection?
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me repeat what i said in my opening statement, which i think covers partly your question: the era of naivety is over. for many years, for decades now, there was a certain feel-good factor in the european union, a certain innocence about the type of threats that we were facing; a feeling that somehow it will work out well. it took a pandemic to find out that we do not manufacture masks and ventilators anymore, and that the raw materials of the pharmaceutical industry are not under our control. it took a war to realise that we need our own umbrella and reliable energy providers. now, it takes this hybrid, constant threat against our critical infrastructure to make sure that we have a level of protection that is commensurate to the threat. on your first question: yes, when the critical entities resilience directive and these two directives are implemented – now frontloaded, as we’re recommending today – this would require all member states to have automatic coverage and notification of all critical entities that matter to the single market. that would give us this level of protection, this shield that we were lacking. as to your second question: yes, i appreciate also the great work you did on disinformation on the ad hoc committee that you chaired. however, you should prepare for a meaningful set of rules under the defence protection and defence of democracy initiative that the president announced, which would cover the issues of foreign intervention, propaganda and fake news, which are tarnishing our democracies.
mr president, very good question. thank you for your response. i like it very much. it has been fun, by the way. my second question is: of course the era of naivety is over, but how do you react when you learn that the german head of cybersecurity is actually working with russian interests? when will we have a total clean—up of our institutions that are supposed to protect and guarantee our security?
mr president, 'dirty pedophile', 'old woman', 'traveller': words and insults accumulate and eventually become deeds, and then bullets and killings. matúš and juraj, malta, last month in germany, samuel in galicia last year, david in a park in belgium in 2021. so i turn to the benches on the far right, which are completely empty. no speaker from the id group came, probably out of shame, out of shame that this young man was influenced by your far-right ideas, that he is the son of a leader of the slovak far-right. maybe it's because you're ashamed that you're not here. but i also want to turn to the council and to the czech presidency of the council. because, i say, by accepting that hate speech and hate crimes are accumulating, even though the commission is making a proposal to make it a european crime and you are blocking the debate, well, you are complicit in what is happening. i'm not going to sleep. it's time to act, to move forward. i hope the realization is brutal; for all of us, it is.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, the weeks in this house are one after another. we are faced with yet another text that once again overwhelms our continent. for you, europe is not green enough and for you, our citizens are not making enough efforts. but our nations have made efforts, and the proof is that europe is the most environmentally virtuous continent, far ahead of china or the united states. our citizens are facing an unprecedented energy crisis, even as they were struggling to recover from the pandemic. so, in that context, your decarbonization goals are simply suicidal. so far, the european union's utopian choices are untenable - carbon fraud, climate neutrality is unrealistic, wind farms are killing our ecosystems, european taxpayers are being blackmailed for the benefit of developing countries, climate migrants are being blackmailed, the commission is being given an exorbitant role in the future cop negotiations, ... the list goes on and on. and all of this for what? this will result in an impoverishment and a decline of europe against the background of obvious climate guilt, while you leave the hands free to all the ultra-polluting globalist projects. we are advocating an ecology that values the local rather than the global, an ecology that is realistic and inspired by our businesses on the ground.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, have you noticed the irony of our calendar? the cop, the united nations conference that brings together world leaders to discuss the ecological crisis and the fight against global warming, will be held at the same time as the football world cup in qatar, held in the middle of the desert in air-conditioned stadiums. then, in the aftermath, we couldn't think of anything better than to award the next asian winter games to saudi arabia to host ice skating competitions in 50 degrees in the shade. all this is not serious and particularly cynical, when in recent months we have been marked by climate disasters of unprecedented scale, with a new record of fires in europe and around the world, floods that have wiped out entire territories, such as pakistan. yes, the ecological crisis is here and it is the most vulnerable, always the same, who are the first victims. so, on the eve of cop27, one more, millions of people who are suffering the full brunt of climate change have their eyes on us and we need to provide them with concrete answers, with social and climate justice policies, not just resolutions and declarations of good faith. don't miss this opportunity
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the facts are crystal clear: the global targets are not enough, they are far from enough to stop the climate crisis. the eu's target of at least 55% reduction by 2030 is also not a fair contribution, as the paris agreement would require us to make. that is why we in parliament have called for a reduction of at least 60% by 2030 from the outset of the debate on the climate change legislation. this is not the time to debate who was right in the end. it is time to think about it, to act and to do it now. an increase in the climate targets is possible with the package "fit for 55". more renewable energy, tighter emissions trading, more covered emissions, stronger cuts - these are all important objectives that we as the european union must advance now. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i would also ask the council to say something now. but the council is showing how much it cares about this debate. i find that honestly embarrassing. it is time we raised the bar together, ladies and gentlemen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a climate conference is an international event of great importance: for the states, which must set their ambitions high and high, and for the people, who are the first to be affected by the climate and who are pushing the political leaders to do more and better. in egypt, human rights are not respected, everyone knows that. we have brought several requests, several resolutions to the european parliament, calling for the release of 60,000 political prisoners. in egypt, they refuse to register associations, they refuse the right to demonstrate freely, they lock up those who speak out loud. in egypt, there is already a fear of reprisals after the cop. in the midst of the debate on human rights violations in qatar for the hosting of the world cup, it is essential that we set ourselves a framework for the preparation of the cop. egypt this year, the united arab emirates next year. the cop must not be allowed to be an opportunity for authoritarian regimes to communicate. so i ask for a simple thing: the development of criteria by the united nations in relation to respect for human rights for the holding of the next cop. it's a matter of consistency. there is no point in trying to save the climate if it is to allow authoritarian regimes to emerge.
mr president, madam commissioner, the european union and the member states have shown exceptional solidarity since the beginning of the russian invasion of ukraine by taking in over 7 million refugees. you have stressed that this welcome is due above all to the european citizens. this summer, 49% of those who fled ukraine found refuge with family or volunteers. but as war becomes more permanent, we must offer lasting solutions. while member states welcome some refugees fleeing ukraine, they discriminate against others on ethnic grounds; they are pushing back more, with the support of frontex. as the war drags on and the destabilisation of markets raises fears of a return of hunger riots, some members of this house are more concerned about the flows of migrants - what a horrible expression - that could overwhelm europe than about the fate of the countries most affected. at a time when the situation calls for intra- and extra-european solidarity more than ever, the same political groups that refuse to act on these well-identified causes would like the european union to react pre-emptively and violently to their consequences so as not to have to rethink a deadly and breathless model. commissioner, we are far beyond the scandal of double standards. we must propose a model of society which is desirable, ecologically and socially just.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 700 000 people died at verdun, 1 200 000 died in the battle of the somme, 20 million died in the first world war, 60 million, most of them civilians, in the second world war. 2,500 years ago, thucydides explained that history is an eternal beginning. so, have we learned nothing, learned nothing from these wars, from this barbarity, and here in strasbourg, from the occupation? are we prepared, a century later, to face a new european tragedy with this russian aggression against ukraine? in 2012, the european union was awarded the nobel peace prize. what's left today, if not a spirit of war? it is certainly easier to sink into the anathema and the curse of war by taking the path of war than to find the path of peace. and if it were to be confirmed that the european union is failing in its mission and responsibilities as a peacemaker, it is up to france, whose every village honours a monument to the dead in battle, to bring all the parties from ukraine, russia and nato to the negotiating table. it is up to france to make peace to end the escalation of this conflict. and when the elements of lasting peace are found, rest assured, whatever your nationality and your membership in this chamber, that our children, our grandchildren will... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, who but a terrorist would have the idea of attacking a civilian nuclear power station, endangering it and storing weapons there? who else but a terrorist would bomb a maternity hospital, a theater, a kindergarten, or assassinate a bandleader? who else but a terrorist would plunge a country into darkness with no clear military objective, for the sole purpose of inflicting suffering, intimidation, and therefore terror? no one can doubt that. russia has not only acted as an aggressor state since 24 february, but has also used terrorist methods. before we ask ourselves about the legal consequences of such a qualification, i would ask our media to ask themselves the right questions. they never thought they'd invite an al-qaeda spokesman after 9/11. so i don't see what the spokesmen of the russian embassies are doing, almost every day, on our tv channels. out of respect for the victims of russian terror, out of pity, don't invite them back.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam president of the commission, mr minister, we will be strong outside our borders if we are strong within our borders. the council must show the same determination on internal issues as it does in the geopolitical shape of the european union. our energy must be total to put policies in place to ensure prosperity, to keep bills down, to keep our small businesses alive. solidarity and unity must be the keywords and the basis of this european summit. will we live up to the last two years or will we repeat the hesitations and quarrels of the 2010s in the face of the sovereign debt crisis and the migration crisis? i do not want to argue with mr weber either, but in the 2010s the epp was in charge, and the european union did not shine with the response it was able to provide, it did not act quickly and strongly in the last crises. so no more ppe, mr weber, i do not think that is desirable today, given the last crises we experienced in the 2010s. so will we act quickly and strongly, justly, or too little and too late? if we act quickly and strongly, we will respond to the fear of a general decline in employment and an increase in purchasing power. if we act quickly and strongly, we will respond by increasing purchasing power, and i believe that our people will increasingly support our efforts for ukraine. despite the differences and even divisions we sometimes have in the council on certain subjects, we also know that the twenty-seven can be effective. what was possible with the tax on superprofits, for example, must be possible with the energy crisis and the responses to it. as you know, madam president, this parliament, as usual, has been quite clear on the points on which a european consensus could be reached in its recent resolutions. there is a majority for a european tariff shield, as renew proposed a few months ago. we have identified a number of solutions, both structural and cyclical. we know the short-term solutions: capping the price of gas; a new solidarity fund until the end of winter 2024. this new solidarity fund should help those member states which are currently unable to reduce their bills; i am grateful for your comments in this forum. we have seen that it worked with the vaccines, it must work with the fund, which should allow us, precisely, to buy gas together. and i hope, madam president, that in the next few weeks you will be on your way to oslo to negotiate, on behalf of the twenty-seven, with our norwegian friends. that is how, from a cyclical point of view, we should bring down prices, how we should help our citizens and our companies to pay their bills. on the other hand, we also have structural solutions: the decoupling of electricity and gas prices. it is an aberration today that the prices of decarbonised electricity produced in europe depend on the price of fossil gas, which is imported via external countries. if there is a majority in this house, at any rate there is probably a way to the council. our demands are those of our companies, our economists, our civil society. my group also advocates a genuine european investment plan, particularly in electricity infrastructure. we have proposed a sovereign wealth fund. it must enable us to become independent, whether in food, industry or energy. i would caution, however, that 27 national investment policies are good, but an ambitious european investment policy is better. and those who invest massively at national level and at the same time oppose european investment are endangering the european response that we must lead. this will naturally require - and you know it - that the multiannual financial framework, our european budget, be adapted and re-adapted to the shared objectives of sovereignty and strategic autonomy. in any case, madam president, mr minister, we know that europe can meet the aspirations of the people, and even exceed them in times of crisis. so the keyword for my group is very clear: now it is up to the 27.
president. - i have not received any reply to the request for an early vote. social legislation is clearly not a priority at a time when we are in the midst of the greatest socioeconomic crisis in history. i can blame the commission for that, but you and i both know, of course, that the council is the biggest stumbling block when it comes to social legislation. for example, a temporary parttime work permit has been possible, but the promised permanent arrangement remains out of the question. there is a proposal for more social safety nets, but it is only a recommendation. i therefore call on the council, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, to do the following: raise wages, invest more in a social climate fund, and reform the energy market. for once in our lives, let's put people first and not the market.
madam president, commissioner, this is a crucial european council which starts tomorrow in brussels. there is, of course, this escalation of vladimir putin's war of terror in ukraine. but i want to talk about this war on energy that he is waging at home, the price of gas and electricity that are soaring, these families in europe, these artisans, these butchers, these smes, these communities that can no longer do it, that are dying. this time the proposals are on the table and i am thinking first of all of the group purchases. two comments, however, commissioner: 15% - 15% really? when we've achieved this massive solidarity buying with vaccines? i'm not comparing the two, but it seems ridiculous. and most importantly, why delay this measure until spring 2023? it was put on the table almost exactly one year ago by the spanish prime minister, pedro sanchez. 18 months is an eternity. in times of crisis, that's a mistake. the same applies to the new index adapted to the reality of our supply, i.e. 30% of liquefied natural gas. why wait another six months? so we can rest assured that our tanks are 92% full for this winter, said the president. but at what cost? we do not have, we do not have the luxury of time anymore, commissioner.
madam president, it is our dependence on fossil fuels that has put us in the hands of putin, who has blown up the bills and is destroying the only planet we have. so let's not repeat the mistakes of the past. under the guise of freeing us from russian gas, you are now preparing our dependence on american shale gas, on qatar or on azerbaijan, in defiance of armenia. all this while accelerating climate change, ignoring the fact that the cost of living will increase inexorably as the planetary boundaries shift. the solution lies in the ability of the member states to jointly provide the billions needed for the ecological transition. what we need are binding targets for our energy consumption reduction and a 2035 deadline to finally be gas-free. and to ensure that it is the biggest consumers and not households who provide the necessary effort. industry, agro-industry, private jets and space tourism: some do not consume energy, they consume it. the cheapest energy is the one that is not consumed. it is their efforts that will guarantee the right to energy of citizens. the issue is not who will wear a sweater this winter, but how we can move towards a just sobriety that will allow everyone to live with dignity.
madam president, mr vice-president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the courageous resistance of the ukrainian people, of its legitimate government, our aid to kiev, combined with the pressure of sanctions, is bringing down the kremlin, its economy, its violent military force. and reality, more clearly than putin's propaganda, shows once again that this is the way forward and that european leaders must act more decisively in the name of our collective security, our values, our unity. i naturally welcome the proposal for a price cap and for joint gas purchasing, which are key objectives in alleviating the burden of the energy crisis on households and businesses. we could certainly have taken more bold measures, but some national selfishness has forced us to accept the minimum rather than demand the maximum. i therefore call on the european governments to define criteria for the operation of the price cap as soon as possible in the name of full european solidarity. finally, mr vice-president, i would like to thank mario draghi and his government here, because without their experience europe would have been much, much more fragile in recent months.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, one leader is fighting for diamonds, another is fighting for luxury, a third is fighting for uranium. we are tired of these negotiations by carpet dealers, by heads of government acting as vrp of private sectors. it weakens our democracies, it weakens our sanctions. when war is raging, it is vital for the city that the general interest once again take precedence over private interests. so how can we accept that big european companies continue to make money with the russian regime? how can we tolerate, for example, that total is making astronomical profits from its shares in novatek, which supplies kerosene to the planes of vladimir putin's terrorist army? winter is coming and the necessary sacrifices will only be made if they are right. so the message to the european leaders meeting in the council is clear: cap gas prices. tax the super profits. you're gonna have to take care of the war profiteers. fill in the gaps in the sanctions. show that politics has taken over. and only then will the european union have honoured its appointment with history.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not yet cold, but winter is coming to europe and the most worrying sign is the drastic decline in the consumption of gas by our industries, which shows how close we are to a potential economic collapse. once again, action is urgently needed - and we repeat it here - to finally decouple gas prices from electricity prices in an effective way; it is urgent that the commission put an end to the suspension of piloted production in our countries. how is it that germany has just decided to extend its nuclear power stations? that belgium closed a pilot plant, the doel 3 plant, on 23 september last year? that alone means 200 million cubic metres of gas which we will have to import every month. this is obviously something which concerns all our countries and solidarity begins there. i am very pleased that we have recently been able to include nuclear energy in the funding of repowereu by means of an amendment. we need all the available production capacity to revive europe. finally, commissioner, we must ensure that sanctions are not circumvented. we are, of course, bound by the truth and justice of this commitment. how, for example, is it that azerbaijan's gas production has decreased while its exports are increasing? can the commission explain this? if we let sanctions get bypassed, we'll have lost on all counts.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are now confronted every day with the words and ideas of the far right, on social networks, in particular, in the form of insults or fake news. mrs garcía pérez is no longer here, present in this chamber, but i would have liked to answer her. i would have liked to reply that on social media these insults are of the same caliber as the shameful insults of former slovak prime minister robert fico to president čaputová, never condemned by the socialist vice president monika beňová who was with him. i would have liked to tell him, to mrs garcía, to tell her that we did not wait to dissociate ourselves from the swedish liberals. while some of your parties are protected despite their business, like the maltese socialist party or the bulgarian socialists close to the kremlin, well, your president's comments were unworthy. i would like to return to my initial point, ladies and gentlemen. unfortunately, it has become commonplace to read or hear homophobic claims. theses that lead to the worst, like the murder of two men in bratislava a week ago. the counter-truths abound, from the alleged lethal effect of vaccines to the harmlessness of covid, to the so-called nazi ukraine. and i don't think i'm the only one here, unfortunately, who has noticed that. these ideas and lies always come from the same networks that serve the extremists and especially the far right. so i appeal to all those who are pro-european and also to you socialists. let's wake up, let's wake up together it is high time that these shameless lies were fought, that the truth was restored. let's defend our values, let's defend our journalists, let's defend the right to love whoever we want, let's defend the right to own our bodies, let's defend the right to protection of people fleeing war or oppression. we should not be ashamed of it! let's defend the planet, not give in to climate scepticism. let us defend the independence of the judiciary, the freedom of our media. let us defend our union and all that it stands for. let us be proud, let us be confident, let us be brave and let us put these ideas in the past for good, the past to which they belong.
mr president, far right is seeking normalisation and we are giving it to them. first, they had to disguise their fascist legacy, their most frightening symbols and their worst racist, violent rhetoric. second, they asked right—wing and liberal centrists to open the door, to let them in a bit, accessing little places of power in parliament, even in government, and spreading this false narrative that sometimes the left would be more extremist than far—right. it happened in austria, now italy, sweden, france. and now third, we should be all reassured because they are not claiming they want to leave the european union anymore. but why should they? they can do scary far—right politics, take the money, use the single market and influence the decisions. viktor orbán paved the way. eating up the eu from the inside is the new respectable path of power for the far right.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, it’s not the first debate we have had. i remember eight years of sitting in this parliament and debating these very serious issues, and i always listened very carefully. again, after this debate, i came to a conclusion that, indeed, in europe we have a serious problem. at the same time, i am always thinking about the role of the commission, which i represent here. so let me clarify what we can and cannot do, and what we are doing. i am sure that the commission should not engage in domestic political fights, and we try hard not to get into that and to support fair competition. this is it. the role of the commission is to protect universal values, which are above ideologies. i have in mind the rule of law, democratic governance and freedoms, and human rights. this is what we must do, and this is our job. indeed, regarding what mr biedroń said here, quoting professor turski: it’s alarming in my ears almost every day what i heard from him when we were in auschwitz three years ago. he said, do not be indifferent. he didn’t speak about his experience from the holocaust when he was in auschwitz as a young boy. he spoke about the present. that’s why i am glad. i always quote him. we must not be indifferent, because we have the historical lesson. what happens if nobody is opposing evil? we spoke a lot about that today. there are two concrete areas where the commission is acting and should act. one, coming back to the universal values and rules. political competition must be free and fair. it means that the commission proposed a media freedom act; we proposed the legislation against manipulation in political advertising. i ask the parliament and the member states to please give it a green light, because this is exactly what we need to do to be efficiently doing something against political extremism. the second thing is hate speech and disinformation, which has the potential to cause security harm. violent extremism and radicalisation, which are fuelled today to a large extent through the digital space. we had here president čaputová today. she spoke about the horrible tragedy that happened in slovakia – a teenager killing two other young people. he was radicalised not only online, but also in the family. i will come back to the slovak case later. i also wanted to say that the commission is protecting freedom of speech, but, as president čaputová said, it must not be absolute. if we protect absolute freedom of speech, we disregard the truth. this is what we see, i’m afraid, in the hungarian campaign now. i want to react to katalin cseh, who spoke about the ongoing consultation. we reacted to it today through our spokesperson, but it’s not enough to say there is a lot of lying behind the consultation. by the way, viktor orban voted for all the sanctions and he is now asking about the citizens. nothing against the consultations with the citizens, but for us, it means that we have to react to the facts. we are now working on a renewed impact assessment of the sanctions on russia and of sanctions on european member states. we have to come with the facts. so i take what you said that we should do more. coming back to president čaputová and her speech today. she spoke about the influence of radicalisation on society and the increase in extremism, which is fuelled by some political parties. it is a very serious problem that it is now, for some political powers, useful to fly on the waves of hatred. this is the reality. that’s why, again, the commission proposed the ‘eurocrime’, which also should get into the legislative process soon. we proposed the digital services act, which asks strongly, under the threat of sanction, the providers of digital services not to be the co—perpetrators of crime, which also covers hate speech. speaking aboutfreedom of speech. i sharply dislike what i usually hear from that site and that site. my job is to protect the freedom of all the participants of the political competition to say these things. this is just the universal value. mr president, can i still say something? i know i am four minutes beyond the time. i would like to switch into my language now, if you don’t mind, and react to mr radačovský, who spoke here, but who is not here with us anymore. pan radačovský tady hovořil o tom, že my tady, kteří se snažíme o fungování a prosperitu evropské unie, jsme proti patriotismu. i o tom jsme dnes ráno mluvily s prezidentkou čaputovou, když jsme měly mítink ještě před jejím vystoupením tady. hovořily jsme o tom, jak obě milujeme svou zem a svůj národ. že jsme patriotky a že to není v rozporu s tím, že chceme být užitečné při přijetí zodpovědnosti za rozvoj evropské unie. pro mě to nikdy nebyl rozpor. já jsem hrdá češka a miluji kulturu, jazyk, historii svého národa. teď jsem pyšná na to, jak se vede českému předsednictví, ale nikdy mi to nebránilo v tom, abych podporovala evropskou unii jako celek, který nám pomáhá – i nám čechům –, abychom se rozvíjeli. unii, která pro nás byla několik dekád zárukou prosperity a demokratického vývoje a v nynější době je zárukou ochrany proti velmi nebezpečnému nepříteli. mám velmi dobrá data, která hovoří o tom, že současná dezinformační scéna zneužívá tak čistého citu, jako je láska k vlasti, pro zájmy kremlu. a to si myslím, že je něco, s čím musíme bojovat. to je teď v poslední době novinka a je to něco, co je potřeba zastavit. ale možná ne tak ze strany evropských institucí. tady je potřeba, aby se zvedl velice silný odpor v rámci členských států a národních politických sil a občanů, neziskové společnosti a občanské společnosti jako takové, protože to je přesně to, co měl na mysli marian turski. nebýt lhostejný a nemlčet, když se děje zlo. pro mě mávání státními vlajkami v zájmu kremlu je čisté zlo.
madam vice-president, i thank you for this basic clarification and definition. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the explanatory memorandum to the court of auditors' annual report 2021 (2022/2843 ((rsp)).
president of the court of auditors. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, it’s an honour for me to be here today for the first time as the newly elected president of the european court of auditors. my focus as president will be on continuing our work to support this house with the information that you need to fulfil your role and to improve accountability and transparency across all types of eu action in the interests of our citizens. however, today i am also here before you in my previous function as the member for our annual report for the year 2021. my colleague jan gregor, who has taken over this function following my election, is here with me today. our annual report is our core product. it contains detailed information on the results of our financial and compliance audit work that support our key messages, on which i will focus today. as in previous years, for the eu accounts, we adopted a clean opinion. in other words, they were not affected by material misstatements. on revenue, we found that the overall error rate was not material. on expenditure, for the first time this year, we provided two separate opinions, reflecting that there are fundamental differences between budget spending under the multiannual financial framework and that of rrf spending. firstly, on eu budget spending, based on a representative sample of 740 transactions, we found that the overall level of irregularities increased significantly from last year, reaching 3% in 2021, from 2.7% the previous year. we estimated that it is 4.7% for the high—risk spending, which makes up a clear majority of our audit population, being 63% of the population. given the widespread nature of the problems that we have found, that is the pervasiveness of the error, we gave an adverse opinion for the third year in a row. if we look closer for a moment under different policy headings, we estimate that the level of error is material for single market, innovation and digital, at 4.4%, compared to 3.9% the previous year, and in the cohesion policy area, at 3.6%, compared to 3.5%. for natural resources, when taken as a whole, we find the error to be close to materiality, although our results indicate that direct payments are below materiality, whereas rural development, market measures and other areas outside the cap are above materiality. finally, for administrative expenditure, we estimate the level of error to be not material. so far, i have mainly focused on the compliance aspect of eu spending. however, making use of available eu funds is another area that we look at and which has regularly been an area where we raised concern. this has not changed in 2021. outstanding commitments at the end of 2021 totalled eur 341.6 billion. this compares to 303.2 the previous year. however, this amount includes, for the first time, a standing commitment in relation to the rrf of almost eur 90 billion. excluding this amount, outstanding commitments actually decreased compared to last year, mainly due, however, to delays in the implementation of shared management funds under the 2021-2027 mff. through our work in 2021, we also found suspected cases of fraud, and we have reported 15 such cases to olaf, compared to 6 in 2020. and from the information that we have been given, olaf has so far opened five investigations. so beyond these individual cases that we transmit to olaf and now also to eppo, the eca tackles this very important topic through specific, dedicated reports. ladies and gentlemen, i now turn to our audit of the expenditure under the rrf. this is a novelty in our annual report this year. and as i noted when presenting our annual report to the cont last week, it’s an area of particular importance. for that matter, i expect that it will continue to be in the coming years, and that’s why i would like to express the court’s gratitude for parliament’s support in obtaining additional temporary auditor posts in this year’s and next year’s annual budgets. the rrf regulation provides for a different delivery model than that for eu budget spending under the mff. the rrf delivery model focuses on the achievement of milestones and targets, rather than the reimbursement of costs incurred, which has implications on what makes a payment legal and regular. in this statement of assurance, on the rrf, we therefore have to focus on whether the commission has got sufficient and appropriate evidence to support its assessment that the milestones or targets were satisfactorily fulfilled. compliance with other eu and national rules does not form part of this commission’s assessment on the legality and the regularity of payments and is, therefore, not covered through this opinion. this aspect will be looked at through future audits when the commission work in this regard has been completed and can be assessed. furthermore, we do not assess the effectiveness of the different reforms contained in the milestones. again, this would rather be a topic for future dedicated special reports. for 2021, the rrf audit population included a single payment of eur 11.5 billion made to spain, following the reported fulfilment of 52 milestones, all of which related to reforms. given that there was only a single payment, we had the opportunity to examine this in detail. we found that one of the milestones, in our view, was not satisfactorily fulfilled. this view, based on all available information and using our professional judgment, is that the impact, however, was not deemed to be material. while a number of payments to different member states have been made in the meantime, we are still awaiting a commission proposal in relation to quantifying the impact of when a milestone or target is not satisfactorily fulfilled. mr president, honourable members, i would like to conclude and take this opportunity to thank the commissioner for his institution’s cooperation over the past year. we may sometimes differ on specific points, but together, we both strive, within our respective responsibilities, to ensure that the eu’s budget is put to good use. thank you for your attention and i look forward to a good debate this afternoon.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear honourable members of the european parliament, in particular, dear president tony murphy, jan gregor and incoming court member lefteris christoforou. first, i would really like to thank you and i can only reply to you, tony murphy and your team, for the excellent cooperation also in preparing this annual report and the very good cooperation not only on this subject, also on others. and i agree, sometimes we might have different views and analyses, but it’s always in a spirit of mutual respect, and this is something, which i consider crucial and important. 2021 was again an exceptional year for our budget. the european funds continued to play a critical role to help citizens, companies, regions, municipalities and member states to overcome the coronavirus pandemic and its consequences. in june 2021, next generation eu started its borrowing with record demand. the recovery and resilience facility, a brand new instrument, was also set up in record time in a couple of months. in 2021, the commission assessed and endorsed 22 recovery and resilience plans following a very thorough assessment process. in 2021, the commission disbursed already eur 54 billion in pre—financing payments to 20 member states, which helped kick start the implementation of the investment and reform measures. the commission disbursed a first payment for milestones and targets of eur 10 billion to spain before the end of last year. in this exceptional context, i am pleased that the eu accounts have received again a clean opinion. likewise, i am happy that the court concludes, like last year, that the revenue side of the eu budget is free from material error. the court audited for the first time this year the recovery and resilience facility and concluded it was not affected by material error. spending areas such as natural resources, which means primarily agriculture, and administrative expenditure continue to obtain excellent results. however, as you have heard, the court has maintained its adverse opinion on the legality and regularity of expenditure. some areas, essentially the ones with complex eligibility rules, remain more prone to errors. the share of expenditure considered by the court as higher risk has increased in 2021 compared to 2020. this is normal at this stage of the 2014—2020 multiannual financial framework and that delayed implementation of a lot of programmes and projects. as a result, the overall level of error reported by the court slightly increased compared to last year. another way, i have to say, to look at the findings is that 97% of the union budget is well—managed. i would also like to underline that the implementation of the eu budget is not homogenous across countries, regions, programmes or even types of measures. we are able to precisely identify and report transparently where the issues are and we take remedial measures or ask member states and other partners to take actions. the commission’s conclusion as manager of the union budget is that the control systems are working effectively and the eu budget is effectively protected as a whole and over time. the multiannual nature of our approach with controls even after payments, allows the recoveries until the end of the programmes. as regards the recovery and resilience facility, the commission performs controls and audits throughout the spending cycle. when assessing the national recovery and resilience plan, by checking that member states have put in place sound internal control systems, by assessing whether milestones and targets are fulfilled before payment and by performing risk—based ex—post controls after disbursements.finally, the commission reports annually on the way european funds are managed in its integrated financial and accountability reporting. through this comprehensive reporting, the commission assumes accountability and transparency on the management of the union budget. at the same time, we are aware that areas of improvements remain and we are taking action. firstly, simplifying rules remains the best way to prevent errors. this concerns especially the research programme and cohesion policy. in cohesion, 75% of the errors are related to different interpretations or lack of knowledge concerning what is eligible and what not. secondly, by strengthening our control systems to make them more effective, the commission continues to extensively cooperate with the national audit authorities to improve the quality of their work. thirdly, by supporting beneficiaries, national authorities and other partners in the day—to—day management of union funds. for example, the commission is providing support to horizon europe applicants, through communication campaigns and workshops. all these efforts will continue as the current mff programmes are now kicking off. thank you for your interest.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the court of auditors, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen! before i start speaking officially, i would like to congratulate tony murphy on behalf of the committee on budgetary control on his election as president and wish him luck and success in the difficult tasks ahead of him and his entire team at the court of auditors. we look forward to further cooperation, because this annual report is again an important basis for the discharge. i am glad that jan gregor is here as the main contributor to this report and i can now confine myself to my role as rapporteur, because then the second part on the commission's budget will be taken over by mr jeroen lenaers as rapporteur and, of course, by the shadow rapporteurs. on the subject of the arf: the commissioner is very well aware of the questions i have raised for the committee on budgetary control and i am grateful that dg budg is at least making some progress on the matter of the committee on budgetary control's concern. the first concern is that we have what are called milestones and targets. but they are so broadly formulated that you have a wide margin of discretion in satisfying them. what is satisfactory or unsatisfactory is, in fact, not verifiable for us. what is the standard of what is satisfactory? there is also no methodology if someone, any state, does not meet the five milestones. how important or not important are they? what percentage is deducted from the payout? so far, nothing is deducted, but everything is paid out, and the methodology does not yet exist. we want to make that very clear as the committee on budgetary control. secondly, there is the problem that there is no clear link between the level of payment instalments and the milestones and targets to be met. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that means that parliament - the committees and the committee on budgetary control - cannot check whether the projects are successful, whether they are right, where the money has gone. but we cannot be satisfied with saying that we are spending the money, but we do not know where it is going.
i have allowed mrs hohlmeier to make such a dramatic overture because i have de facto credited her with congratulating the new president of the court of auditors.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. mr president, commissioner, i have to tell you something. ladies and gentlemen! first of all, congratulations to the new president of the court. you are taking up this post at a very difficult time, at a time when european taxpayers will be particularly concerned about how the money of the european union, of the eu institutions, is spent. so the more we hold, myself and my political group, the thumbs up for you and the entire court. i am also pleased to have commissioner hahn here, the most experienced commissioner in the european commission, one of the most substantive, who will certainly be a support to your institution. it has been a difficult year for the union and for the member states. i would like to thank all the staff of the control institutions for keeping the european union institutions' expenditure under control and monitoring despite covid. i would point out that despite this difficult time, the overall error rate was the same as in previous years, less than 2%. i'd also like to boast about my country's audit results. namely, it's a score that's on par with italy, a little better than germany. and when it comes to open applications, we're on the same level as france and italy. thank you very much, and i wish you and the court every success.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, the first thing i want to do is to congratulate tony on his appointment to this very, very important role. and i think it is brilliant that we have an actual auditor at the head of this organisation. i think it is also very important that we have someone who comes from a working class background as our head auditor and the head of this organisation. because when you come from a working class background, you don’t say, ‘ha, well i spent 97% of it well, and sure, 3% is only gone,’ because if you do, you might not be able to turn on the light. every last penny matters. that’s why i think it is important that we have someone like him in the position, and i really, really welcome it. on the rrf, we have a problem; the court of auditors has a problem. we are dealing with ordinary people’s money. however, exactly how this money is being spent is without any real auditable trail. the idea that national authorities can, in effect, audit themselves is a bad joke. as for milestones and targets, to me it is like having a unit of speed to find a stone’s throw – however long you can throw a stone; it is different for everyone – every so often, depending on how you decide every so often is. we need a massive improvement. but i think we’ve made a good start by appointing this guy. i think he’ll make big changes.
madam president, on the annual budget, it is time to have a discussion which the commission is systematically trying to avoid. the budget of the european union, the money of the europeans, that is to say our money, is now being used to finance islamism. at least €36 million paid between 2014 and 2019 to networks linked to the muslim brotherhood or hamas or supporting jihadist groups. more than €1 million for programmes allegedly aimed at combating terrorism, which are associated with ngos founded by the islamist abu bakr rieger, who claims to want to establish a caliphate at the global level. how much for the campaigns even showing little girls in veils? it is the same islamism, the same deadly ideology, that is slowly gangrenous in our streets, our administrations and our schools. the same islamism that kills, bloods and mourns europe regularly. every euro paid by the commission to associations linked to the islamist movement is a disgrace, a real infamy. a full audit of grants paid in the name of allegedly fighting racism or islamophobia is urgently needed. and when the scandal is exposed, you will be held accountable before our people.
madam president, let me first thank president murphy for the presentation today, but mainly for the work that the court of auditors does in general. it’s crucial work, also in the context of our work here in this house on the discharge procedures. now, on the annual report, i want to make three brief points. firstly, it is concerning that the court reports an error rate of 3% for expenditure, which is well above the 2% materiality threshold, particularly because this error rate has been increasing for the last couple of years, leading to an adverse opinion again. it is also significantly higher than the commission’s own calculated risk at payment, which now even falls below the range of error calculated by the court. secondly, and this is connected to this, we should really work towards solving the confusion with different error frameworks used by both institutions. we need to know beyond reasonable doubt what the error rate is, and there needs to be an agreement on that figure. the same also goes for the assessments of the levels of risk of expenditure. uniform methods for sampling risk assessment and corrections of error and recovery would be very helpful for us to do our work. thirdly, the type of errors identified over time remain relatively similar: ineligible costs of beneficiaries, lack of supporting documents, infringement of rules and breach of public procurement rules. simplification of these rules would really help here to make sure money gets to the beneficiaries without mistakes. we need to work on that without delay. public support for eu expenditures relies on our joint ability to spend european taxpayers’ money in accordance with rules and regulations. this report once again underlines that we still have some work to do.
madam president, commissioner, i congratulate you, mr president, on your new responsibilities. you have a fundamental mission, to ensure that in our european democracy the money we decide to spend is really going in the right direction, the direction in which we have decided to spend it. it is fundamental for citizens who are attached to how we spend this money. the european court of auditors has concluded that the promised 20% of climate spending over the mff 2014-2020 period has not been met. only 13 per cent was spent, according to your studies, on these purposes. this is unacceptable when we know the priorities for the ecological transition. and for the next mff, it is 30% climate spending, plus 10% for biodiversity. i know that commissioner hahn replied to my question that the commission had no problem with that. well, i think there is one. i would therefore like to know over time, year after year, whether we are meeting these objectives, in particular the climate objectives, and not wait for the end of the mff to find out. thank you again for your work and we will be vigilant on this point as on the others.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having today is unfortunately more timely than ever, at a time when we are learning with horror of the torture suffered by little lola just a few days ago in france. so yes, it is high time to take effective action against sexual violence, starting with that against our children. just last week, i met with determined women who had the courage to speak out about the sexual abuse committed by powerful men who have been acting with impunity for decades. sexual predators protected by the omerta can commit their evil deeds without being worried, especially in the spheres of power. and i want to take the recent cases of the european institutions or the modelling agencies as an example. the culture of silence is responsible for the impunity of the perpetrators. it's time to end it. it is a moral and social issue.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, five years ago, here in this house, i shouted: 'fear and shame must change sides!' five years later, nothing has changed. we know that one in three women in europe has been the victim of physical or sexual violence, more than half of women have been the victims of harassment, one in ten women has been raped, and seven women die every day from the blows of their husband or ex-husband. and remember, covid has created a ghost pandemic, the pandemic of domestic violence. these figures are chilling, but we women will continue to stand! we are in this chamber in force: today, out of 25 speakers, only two are men! we stand to recall that the european union signed the istanbul convention in 2017. we stand to say that six out of 27 countries act in violation of women's rights. commissioner, we are here to legislate. you must guarantee the protection of women and girls by all means, even beyond treaties.
madam president, commissioner, violence against women and children is and should be a crime, and every crime must be prosecuted, charged, convicted and punished. and that's right, and that's the way it should be, because this crime is abhorrent. but here, the debate is a little bit different, because the istanbul convention is not the document that protects women and children from domestic violence or any gender-based violence. the istanbul convention has far bigger, broader and different objectives and you know that very well. there is an ideology in the istanbul convention that is unacceptable to some of us, and that is why we oppose this document, and at the same time we tell you not to take the just cause of protecting women's rights as a hostage to ideological changes aimed at family tradition, family and so on. and i'll give you two examples. how you claim to be a champion of women's rights, and you encourage an athlete who was born a man to go compete in a women's league, in swimming, in boxing, in wrestling or whatever. and another thing, how you claim to promote and protect women's rights, and you call it a tradition in some communities, muslim or in the slums of bulgaria to force 12-year-old girls to marry. this is not protecting the rights of children and women, quite the opposite. i'll close with a call. the istanbul convention was not signed by us, it will not be signed .....
madam president, without equality there is no europe. europe is the future of equality for all. gender-based violence is one of the most serious violations of human rights. one third of women in the european union - mentioned here - have experienced physical or sexual violence in their lifetime and data indicate that this has increased after the pandemic. there has been a simultaneous hidden pandemic. it happens everywhere: at home, at school, at work, on the street, on the internet. we now have a war, the war in ukraine, in which rape is used as a mass weapon by russian soldiers. the fundamental rights of women continue to be violated all over the world and this debate is therefore very important. firstly, we must call on all the member states to ratify the istanbul convention, the most far-reaching international treaty to combat this scourge, and the proposal for a directive which the commission presented in march, a directive to combat violence against women with all the instruments at our disposal. we needed and we need a global, united and coordinated response. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: that is why, with this debate and with all of us together, we are betting on a strong message of commitment to combat this scourge. all mankind will benefit from it. it is not invincible and we must certainly take a decisive lead in this fight. (the speaker agrees to reply to an intervention made under the 'blue card' procedure.)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. madam president, thank you for your speech. in this debate, as karima delli has pointed out, only two men spoke in the gallery and we are only two or three men here. so my question to you is, does that worry you? what lessons can you learn from this for our assembly? because obviously this extremely important debate on the istanbul convention against sexual violence against women is a fight that must concern men first and foremost.
the answer is 'blue card'. indeed, the fight against gender-based violence is not just a women's issue, it is a humanity issue, of men and women. i have no doubt that the men who represent the people of europe, you, but also those who are not here, who are following us from their offices, are involved in this struggle. it is true that it would be desirable for them to speak, but i have no doubt that in all parties, as in my own people's party, there are men who are absolutely committed to this struggle. in mine, in the socialist, in renew. all the parties here are involved. the commissioner has been accompanied by a group of commissioners. we're involved because otherwise it wouldn't be a reasonable fight. we are all involved in this fight and that's the way it should be.
madam president, dear commissioner dali, we have adopted three resolutions underlining the same thing: violence, and especially sexual violence, is not acceptable in the european union, not in any of our member states and not in our own house. we need mediators and we need trainings for everyone. i’m disgusted to see that someone convicted for rape did not only get away unpunished within the european institutions, but even got rewarded by getting more than a million of taxpayers money, a salary while being out of service. no wonder that victims do not dare to speak up. our institutions need to stop this culture of tolerating sexual violence immediately. in december, 76% of members of this house approved stronger measures, and i want to see them implemented by our own administration now. make zero tolerance for any kind of harassment a reality – now.
madam president, madam commissioner, they are humiliated, insulted, harassed, beaten, raped and killed. the continuum of gender-based and sexual violence against women has been going on for too long. although the istanbul convention is the most protective text on women's rights, too few states have ratified it and many are struggling to put it into practice. we cannot but bow down to the words and courage of women, listen to them and respect them. so let us demand a strong directive against gender-based and sexual violence against women, in order to defend their fundamental rights. we are all martyrs for the cause. that's enough! let's defend the next generation of feminists, who are sisters and sisters. women of the world, we believe you!
madam president, madam commissioner, your proposal for a directive to combat violence against women and domestic violence is absolutely in the right direction. as rapporteur for my group, the epp, in the committee on civil liberties, i believe that we urgently need to draw strong inspiration from the spanish model in order to combat this scourge effectively. we cannot wait to ratify the istanbul convention to fight this violence now. the blows are not waiting, and violence is spreading throughout our society. every day, dozens of women and girls are raped, tortured or subjected to female genital mutilation. every day in europe, seven women die from the blows of their husbands. too many women unconsciously accept domestic violence, whether psychological, verbal, physical, leading to the death of the victim. all these women need to be protected. it is up to us to prevent such violence and to provide concrete answers to the victims. let's develop the european domestic violence hotline 112, a number available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, so that any woman in distress can get a solution, no matter where she lives, her age or her background. we urge the member states to help these women, including financially, so that they can leave the marital home. let's make it much easier to give out prescriptions, "high-risk" phones, the issuing of protective orders and electronic bracelets. let us create a genuine european network of information points on violence, but also a network for the exchange of information and coordination to provide individual support to each victim. let us build a clear and precise framework at european level with one-stop shops in each member state, each region and each community to provide guidance, advice and protection for victims. magistrates, police, social services, elected officials and local authorities, we all need to be trained to be actors in this fight against violence.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for this ambitious directive to combat gender-based violence, although it needs to be improved, particularly on the issues of sexual harassment at work, training of professionals in contact with victims and the situation of disabled people. these are the priority battles i will try to fight as the fictitious rapporteur for my group in the committee on employment. beyond the necessary progress that this directive will bring, i wonder how and why, in 2022, the istanbul convention is still not ratified by six member states and therefore by the european union, while seven women a day die from the blows of their partners in europe and the violence continues. we therefore expect a lot from the czech presidency, which is unfortunately not present, from the council and the commission, in order to finally combat violence against women effectively.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of this house, thank you for this exchange on the political developments on this important partner and close neighbour for the eu. it falls at a very timely moment in the run up to the 17 december legislative elections, a key appointment for tunisia in this delicate transitional period. we know that political transitions are challenging. the one that the tunisian people started in 2011 is no exception. this is why the eu considers it crucial to continue to side with the tunisian people, as we have been doing during the past decades, not only economically, but also politically. at the same time, our support has been based on shared principles and values that the jasmine revolution brought along. we firmly believe that the tunisians want to preserve these values. for this reason, the eu has not hidden its apprehensions regarding some of the measures taken in the past few months in tunisia. our message has been very clear since the beginning, privately and publicly when needed. as high representative vice—president borrell stated in the declarations on behalf of the eu in the past months, respect for democratic acquis, the rule of law, the separation of powers, and respect for fundamental rights and freedoms are paramount. we remain convinced that these are essential for the success of any political processes and the long—term prosperity of tunisia. we are also very sensitive and attentive to the hard times that tunisia is experiencing economically. the russian aggression against ukraine is having a heavy impact on all, but there is no doubt that the tunisian economy is among those paying the highest toll in terms of food and energy security. this adds to the damages resulting from the covid 19 pandemic. this is why the eu is determined to continue to support the tunisian people in this challenging economic context, and we remain ready to accompany them in the substantial and difficult, yet needed, structural reforms they will have to undertake. we welcome the staff level agreement between the tunisian authorities and the imf to support tunisia’s economic growth, job creation and macroeconomic stability. the eu stands ready to contribute to this programme and the overall stability of tunisia, including through a rapid disbursement of the next tranche of our budget support of eur 40 million and consideration of new macro—financial assistance. we are hopeful that the tunisian people and authorities will make the wisest choices for the future of tunisia, which can only happen as a result of inclusive dialogue and continuing on a large consensus. on our side, the eu institutions, together with our member states, remain committed to finding the most appropriate means to continue supporting tunisia in this difficult, but crucial time. this includes ways to express our concerns as necessary, always with constructive criticism, which we consider to be the most effective form of dialogue with partner countries.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is a medieval allegation, falsely, i believe, attributed to dante alighieri, that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. i think that's how we have to think about president sayed's actions, decisions and moves over the last few years. think about it, tunisia is where it all started, where the arab spring started. but tunisia, on the other hand, is a country that has been under an authoritarian regime for a long time, under ben ali. and then the question for me is: what do we choose ? clearly, president sayed is not a committed democrat. the techniques it uses to impose its authority are not democratic at all, even if they are sometimes sophisticatedly constitutionally justified. but there is something to be considered further: tunisia, algeria, morocco and, unfortunately, libya are the neighbors of europe. they're across the mediterranean. and whatever happens there can affect the geopolitical stability of the area. i think it is time for this parliament, like all the other european institutions (the commission is much closer to this kind of approach), to take account of the situation and the geopolitical consequences of an attitude towards one state or another.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the islands is not so bad as it was in the past. she's only four years old, she has no parents, and she's tunisian. this is just the latest episode that shows how great the malaise is that tunisian society is going through and, even more, how great and open is the double challenge that tunisia is facing at this moment in its history. firstly, the dramatic social and economic consequences and the crucial political and democratic consequences. the results are still very uncertain, the signals are contradictory. the ugtt has led to a major agreement on civil servants, paving the way for the granting of a loan of 1.900 million, which will prevent the state from defaulting on its debts to the international monetary fund, which i believe we all welcome and encourage. the challenge in the political and democratic field is far more uncertain and fraught with risks. saïed has chosen to concentrate the main powers on himself and has moved forward with constitutional reform and the new electoral law, which will elect the next new parliament on 17 december. we are following this process with growing concern. more than one delegation from the european parliament went to tunis and met with the various actors. we are not tolerating a corrupt political system which has caused damage to tunisia or a policy which is often divided, as it is still today, but we feel the need to be vigilant and attentive again, as the commission and as parliament, in the interests of the tunisian people and our solid friendship with them.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes it is by going to the site that you can take a measure of reality, that you can feel the temperature. i had the opportunity, at the beginning of september, to go to tunisia and meet with civil society actors, human rights defenders, tunisians. i went to tunis and travelled to tabarka to meet a young mayor, elected in a by-election, who is being sued by the national authorities because she dared to allow young unemployed graduates to earn a little money by holding beaches and offering chairs and umbrellas during the summer. the list of the setbacks to democracy, i assure you, is very long: state of emergency turned permanent, elections without transparency, judicial attacks against political leaders, military trials against civilians, intimidation of local elected officials; this is the reality of tunisia today. the security and anti-democratic overturning undermines every achievement of the tunisian revolution. you know, that great movement of uprising in the arab world that we had supported. we thought that perhaps there was a democratic process going on and that we should support it. when i went there, the ngos, the associations were still speaking openly. they even allowed the name of their association to be used, their personal name. that's not the case anymore. i had the opportunity to exchange ideas with associations. they say, "you're not quoting us. you don't give our names or the name of the organization we belong to. you see that today, after the institutions have been unraveled, it is the associations, civil society that are attacked. there are 20,000 associations in tunisia that had participated in the laws against violence against women, against discrimination, against corruption. that is what is threatened. and this is important for the european union, because in tunis there are also associations which, from tunisia, work through our programmes for libya, for palestine. what is happening in tunisia is not simple. europe must be clear about what is happening in tunisia and what president kaïs saïed is putting in place. yes, we must support tunisia! we need to enable tunisians to deal with the covid crisis, the energy crisis. we must give money, but we must also support citizens, support actors, support democracy, because it is our responsibility and it is our honour.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, in the wake of these urgent debates on human rights and the mediterranean world, i ask myself: is there a preferential option for the muslim brotherhood here in the european parliament? we are entitled to ask ourselves this question, given the statements made today by the eu and the so-called human rights associations about tunisia, as was the case yesterday with egypt. when this country was ruled by the muslim brotherhood of ennahda, with western money pouring in, we found nothing to object to. fortunately, the tunisian people have been more courageous and have stopped the decline of their morals and their finances. president sayed has arrived. he arrived with tremendous popular support. he is trying to restore political authority and presidential authority. it is trying to re-establish the dialogue between tunis and the international financial institutions. he also tried to restore some political stability. what is tunisia suffering from today? first, a complicated neighbourhood. secondly, an inflationary crisis where the tunisian people's priority is to live rather than to survive. while tunisia has just reached an agreement - it has been said - with the imf, we should rather be thinking alongside it about how to cooperate in order to strengthen regional cooperation in the mediterranean. it is in our interest in terms of migration, it is in our interest in terms of security, it is in our interest in terms of geopolitics, so strong are the cultural ties with this country. we need a strong maghreb, capable of offering economic opportunities to its children, of fighting islamists and of contributing to the balance of this entire region of africa. since 2019, president saïed has been trying to strengthen the state, an essential condition for tunisia to regain its regional and international stature, and i don't think that increasing the interference to force him to follow some recipes that have systematically failed since 2011 is a good thing. ladies and gentlemen, for you tunisia is facing europe, for us it is with europe, in a shared interest for our common good: the mediterranean.
madam president, the designation of putin's russia as a threat to peace and security in europe has forced a number of member states to review their own record of political, diplomatic, strategic and energy relations with putin's russia, but this is not the case for belarus. no one has been fooled. everyone knows that it is the longest lasting dictatorship in europe. for thirty years he has been in power, increasingly repressive, falsifying elections and therefore, first of all, he is a threat to the citizens of belarus themselves, who deserve all the solidarity of the european union. that is our first task, but no one can ignore that to consider belarus also an aggressor of ukraine and, therefore, to consider it a differentiated and complementary actor of russia in the war against ukraine, is a decision that carries strategic implications that must be very weighed, because it means "recognizing it" an internationalization of the war, which we call "putin's war", to involve a third actor that, formally, remains an independent sovereign state. russia has recently been expelled from the council of europe. belarus was never in the council of europe. he was never admitted as a partner in the law community and for peace in europe. therefore, to point to belarus as an aggressor of ukraine is a strategic decision that has to be weighed with all its consequences.
madam president, dear colleagues, thank you very much. the illegitimate regime of aleksander lukashenko continues to press the belarusian people and deny their desire for a free belarus. on top of that, lukashenko sold belarus sovereignty to kremlin, and his illegitimate regime is providing daily assistance to russian terror against the brave ukrainians. lukashenko, like putin, is an aggressor and one day they must face justice. however, we must also ensure that as we continue to support the ukrainian people against russian aggression, we must also double our efforts to support the belarusian people in their desire for freedom. the belarusian democratic opposition, whom we have supported for many years, now needs us more than ever to aid their efforts at home and from exile. because, without a free, democratic and sovereign belarus, there cannot be a free, democratic and sovereign ukraine. (exclamation in belarusian)
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of this house, let me thank the parliament for again having the situation in belarus on its agenda. in addition to the appalling human rights violations that continue and even worsen, mr lukashenko has become an accomplice in russia’s war of aggression in ukraine. we have condemned – all of us – the acts he’s undertaking. and for that reason, i think this house needs to continue to engage also with the opposition, the democratic opposition of belorussia, and continue to reach out to them and invite them.
the debate is closed.
i give the floor to the minister for european affairs, mr bek, for the council.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, on 6 october, historically, the very first meeting of the european political community took place in prague. this meeting established a new political platform, a platform that is not just another format for cooperation in europe, but a very powerful opportunity to restore peace and prosperity to europe by bringing together leaders from european countries on an equal footing and in a spirit of unity. challenges that we are facing today are not limited to the eu borders. that is why the meeting was attended not only by leaders of eu member states, but also of other european countries with whom the eu has close relations and who share an interest in the peace and prosperity of the european continent. apart from the leaders of 43 european countries, the president of the european council, charles michel, and the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, also participated in the discussion. the main goal of this meeting and of establishing this format was not to replace existing organisational structures nor processes, but to foster political dialogue and cooperation. i am happy to say that this goal was definitely fulfilled, as leaders addressed issues of common interest during a plenary session, a working dinner, for thematic roundtables and dozens of bilaterals. the plenary session was opened by prime minister fiala, who laid out the goals of the meeting of this unprecedented format and highlighted that it was russia’s unjustified and illegal aggression against ukraine which led leaders from all around europe to meet in one place. during the four parallel thematic tables, two most pressing topics were discussed: the connection between energy, the climate and the economy and peace and security on the european continent. lastly, during the dinner, leaders had the opportunity to hear the main takeaways from the set thematic roundtables and discuss them further. no written conclusions were adopted, as the goal was not to weigh down productive discussions by difficult negotiations on an outcome text. the first meeting was a definite success and europe made a big step towards the strengthening of the security, stability and prosperity of the continent and devising common solutions for common challenges. however, our work doesn’t end there, that is why all participating leaders decided to continue cooperation within the epc format. future meetings are planned to take place in moldova, spain and the united kingdom.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the parliament, on 6 october, president von der leyen and high representative vice-president borrell participated in the first summit of the european political community in prague, together with president charles michel. it was a historic event with 44 european leaders who came to discuss how to preserve security, stability and prosperity through cooperation in europe. the leaders shared a sense of usefulness to discuss strategic issues. in that regard, the russian invasion of ukraine was particularly raised by the leaders as a direct attack on european and global order. it is also a frontal assault on the basic tenets of the post-cold war european and international security order that russia had signed up to itself. hence a fundamental question: on what principles can we best organise the political and security order of europe? for the foreseeable future, it is impossible to conceive a new security order or peace architecture in europe, of which russia would be an integral part. russia remains a geographical neighbour and a member of the international system, but right now we have to build a european security order without the kremlin. in prague, european leaders sent a strong signal directed not only to russia but also to the rest of the world about europe’s sincerity with regard to defending a rules-based multilateral order and enshrined in the un charter, and against the backdrop of russia’s weaponisation of energy and food that is affecting the european and global economy. the prague meeting demonstrated the need for a common resolve and action underpinned by a broader and longer-term strategic approach amongst europeans. the european political community (epc) represents an opportunity to put that common resolve into action. it provides for a political impulse and constitutes a vital structuring element across the continent. the epc is also about a community in the original sense, since all participating states have a common interest in its broad objective: a community of shared principles through an alignment on principles that guarantee peace and stability on the continent. an illustration is an agreement facilitated by president michel and president macron to establish a civilian eu mission in armenia alongside the border with azerbaijan. a community of resilience to reduce the exposure and vulnerability of our countries to risks and threats of an increasingly hybrid nature. this would include, inter alia, economic security and energy resilience. the connection of ukraine to the european electricity grid when russia weaponised energy is an example. a community of cooperation aimed at strengthening economic cooperation, interconnectedness and cross-border sectoral cooperation. hence the talks in prague about energy interconnectors in the north sea and the balkans, and strengthening production capacity with countries such as norway and azerbaijan. finally, a community that adds value to existing institutions and formats. the epc is complementary to the eu policies and the other regional frameworks, particularly enlargement, which remains our most relevant geopolitical tool. the epc is not about competing with other existing international structures such as the osce and nato, our most vital partners in upholding the euro atlantic security. honourable members, we need to back up our words with actions to demonstrate alternatives to the russian way of exploiting vulnerabilities by the power of the stronger. therefore, we must seek to seize this momentum to show european unity and strength.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner várhelyi, minister bek, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, russia’s war of aggression against ukraine has been a wake-up call for all of us. in this context, it is crucial that we intensify our relations with our strategic partners all over the globe, and especially with our like-minded neighbours in europe. in this regard, i very much welcome the inaugural meeting of the european political community. minister bek, let me thank the czech presidency for hosting, organising and making this event a success, děkuji. this new platform has potential. the gathering of the 44 leaders delivered some concrete results, as commissioner várhelyi just mentioned. for example, the organisation of a civilian eu mission on the border between armenia and azerbaijan, or in the case of agreeing on a future bilateral summit between the united kingdom and france. as such, the european political community can foster political dialogue for the benefit of our entire continent. however, it is clear that the european political community cannot replace existing eu policies and instruments, notably enlargement. it has to fully respect the european union’s decision-making autonomy. the european political community should not create a two-speed europe. now, a strategic follow-up to a meeting in prague is key to shape the future work of the epc. this new format should be used to deliver concrete solutions to europe’s most pressing issues.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, minister, on 6 october last, 44 sovereign countries met in prague, united because what unites us is greater than what divides us. dialogue together, action together - that is the project of the european political community. on 9 may, emmanuel macron launched this architecture to meet the challenges of an increasingly complex world on a continent-wide scale. the presence of these 44 states demonstrates the urgent need for this area of cooperation to complement the action of the european union. this dialogue shows, and must show even more, the unity of europe. from the unanimous condemnation of russia's aggression against ukraine to the will to act concretely and effectively for the people of europe, this meeting is a successful first step - thanks to the czech presidency. security, energy independence, cybercrime and youth policy, we need to make even more concrete political, economic and cultural projects. so, more than ever, let's build those bridges between us. the european union must respond to the expectations of the peoples of europe more than ever before. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
madam president, what did we hear? "it will never work", "another great idea that will remain in the drawers", "the british will not come", "the european political community, we don't even know what it is". then 44 heads of state and government decided to meet and create this european political community. the 27 were there, but also, in the distance, volodymyr zelensky, and also, in the room, liz truss or the leaders of the balkans. it took a vision, that of emmanuel macron, and it took a moment, one in which our continent understands better than ever that it is facing the same challenges, the same crises and the same war, the one that russia is waging against ukraine. this is not the time for fruitless quarrels, but for efforts to unite and draw closer together. what will be the future of the european political community? this is what everyone will do with it. it will not replace the accession of the candidate countries to the european union, but on the contrary complement it. it will not erase brexit, but it will prevent the uk's trajectory from diverging from that of the rest of europe. above all, we have a collective chance to show that europe is much more than an old continent, much more than a small peninsula to the west of the immense asia. we have an opportunity to take back the pride of who we are: a civilization, a promise and a hope.
madam president, commissioner, i very much welcome the european political community (epc), not least as a way to re—engage with the united kingdom. the new prime minister has made some fairly poor decisions in the last few weeks, but this was a good one – to attend the epc with immediate benefits for the uk, including hosting an epc meeting next year or the year after, re—joining pesco on military mobility and re—joining the north sea energy cooperation group. prime minister truss said, ‘we always believed we would find new ways of working that reflected our shared values and interests.’ she is partly walking back to the realisation that the pursuit of these shared values and interests require rules, they require cooperation and enforceable rules, and those enforceable rules require institutions, the very institutions that the uk walked away from just six years ago. it is slightly ironic that while the uk liked the single market and disliked the european political union, now they are outside the single market and inside the european political community, and i don’t want to be too glib about it because it is an excellent platform, not least for the improvement of anglo—irish relations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the first meeting of the european political community was a success in that it succeeded in creating a forum in which all the countries of our neighbourhood could participate and express themselves, even in those tensions we are witnessing, and indeed the context of this meeting has led to their alleviation, as in the case of the approach between armenia and azerbaijan during this meeting. we now need continuity of action and credibility to come up with a platform that can facilitate a common response to the threat posed to our borders by putin and to act in an increasingly coordinated way to deal with the consequences of war, which affect us all. but be careful to see the european political community as an institutional alternative to joining the union, particularly for the countries involved in the eastern neighbourhood. i believe that it will be our task in the coming months to discuss how to place this political community within the framework of the treaties and to define better its scope and limits, guaranteeing a central role for the european parliament as soon as the convention we are calling for to profoundly reform this union opens its work.
madam president, i consider the european political community to be a good initiative, and it is, of course, an initiative that has been initiated by president macron. certainly the success of the czech presidency is that it has managed to bring so many countries together in one place, in prague, in the czech republic from iceland to turkey, the uk, of course the caucasus countries. it is important to encourage such dialogue between leaders, and i think it is also important to promote the protection of democratic values, values which are also inherent in the european union. i know that there is, of course, the council of europe, which is supposed to protect peace and peaceful coexistence among the peoples of europe, as well as fundamental human rights and freedoms. but unfortunately, this organization is currently crippled by russia's attack on ukraine, and so it's good that this community is coming together. it is important, however, that this community does not put the question of enlargement of the european union in the background, so that these countries, too, who decide to join the union, have this platform open, but also free to travel to europe.
madam president, i welcome the meeting of the european political community, because in this house we have come up with numerous proposals on strengthening cooperation with our wider european partners, including creative integration of those desiring it. i therefore want to congratulate the czech government on the success. the summit made it clear that the community can never be an alternative for those wishing to join the european union. on the contrary, the success of the inaugural summit lay in the fact that it provided an inclusive format in which to discuss common challenges with our wider european partners. these challenges are multiple: from responding to putin’s war of aggression against ukraine through working together to rebuild the european security, to addressing the threats posed by the chinese communist party and other totalitarian regimes. only by working together in the spirit of unity and solidarity can european nations address the many challenges in front of us.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i believe there is indeed a great potential in this initiative. russia’s invasion of ukraine has instilled further urgency and importance into our efforts to strengthen the eu’s role as a security actor and provider. our ability to respond to threats and challenges benefits from the partnerships in europe and beyond. together, all european countries can devise pragmatic ways to cooperate and strengthen our collective capacities and leverage. going forward, our collective response should be articulated along the key principles. first, stay the course on a triple strategy: supporting ukraine, pressuring russia to stop its war of aggression, and addressing the wider fallout of the war. second, reflect on the strategic implications for european security. russia seeks a new continental security architecture based on transactional relations and spheres of influence between great powers. russia has tried to divide us, but it has achieved the opposite. our unity, strength and resolve have never been greater. the next european political community (epc) meetings are planned in moldova, spain and uk, where we all, all europeans, can take this initiative further. the very fact that there is already clarity on the hosting of the next summits proves the degree of political interest and commitment to maintain this process. obviously, the practice will show how it evolves and addresses some open questions, particularly regarding the scope and nature of political cooperation, i.e. on energy, as well as the nature of the institutional setup.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, first of all, i should specify that i am addressing the plenary of this house in my national capacity and as a host of the event, not as a president of the council. let me thank you for this debate and for the visibility that this parliament has given to this momentous event that will resonate in the future. there is no doubt that the situation will continue to be very challenging in more than one way – the winter period approaching, inflation rising in many countries, and russian aggression against ukraine continues to escalate further. let me assure you the european political community does not substitute the process of eu enlargement. similarly, it does not replace existing platforms or organisations. i am confident that by establishing this format we also establish a platform where we can face these challenges more efficiently and in a united way and get back on the path of growth, as well as defend our values. even though it is the current geopolitical situation that motivated us to sit at one table, i believe that once the war is won and europeans don’t have to worry about the upcoming winter, all epc participants will continue to meet and work on joint initiatives towards a more prosperous continent for the benefit of both our union, as well as the countries outside the eu. thank you very much once again for your attention.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – putin unified europe. this was the message of the prague summit. the image of unity and cooperation of 44 european countries gathering together to find a way forward is important. but it should not become just another summit of shaking hands and family pictures. it should not become a copy of the council of europe. it should not become a replacement of the eu accession process. it should be a new engine to revive the broader european agenda in our neighbourhood. but for that to happen we need to have a clear roadmap and set up priorities. and that is what is currently missing.
next item on the agenda: the council and commission statements on: global food security as follow-up to the g20 agriculture ministers meeting (2022/2883(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, vice-president of the commission, the alarming increase in the number of people facing acute food insecurity is a matter of great concern for all of us. russia’s war against ukraine is severely exacerbating the already dire food security situation in many vulnerable countries and pushing more people into extreme poverty. we all know the figures. around 50 countries depend on russia and ukraine for at least 30% of their cereal imports and for over 20 countries, this is more than 50%. thanks to the stable production supported by the common agricultural policy, food security in the eu is not at risk. this allows the eu, as a major global agri-food producer, to make an increased contribution to global food supplies. nevertheless, there are major issues we must address, among them ensuring affordability of food for all eu citizens and restoring fertiliser supplies to bring down fertiliser prices and avoid future food supply disruptions. at the same time, the eu must remain fully mobilised to help ukraine export its agri-food production. this includes continuing to support the un-led efforts to keep the black sea maritime route open and working on improving alternative export routes for ukrainian cereals via the eu-ukraine solidarity alliance. our efforts are already bearing fruit. in september, no less than 40% of ukrainian grains were exported through the solidarity alliance. the exceptional circumstances in which we live have also provoked a firm and robust policy response from the eu towards third countries and regions to contribute to global food security. the council will continue to oversee the ongoing eu action along the three well-known tracks: emergency relief and financial support to the most affected countries; helping vulnerable countries to build sustainable and resilient food systems and improve the livelihood of their farmers; and working together with our international partners to ease tensions on global agricultural markets. the capacity of the eu to reach the most vulnerable depends on the effective coordination and cooperation of the international community. this is why we support the central role of the un global crisis response group to coordinate the global efforts. we therefore welcome the recent call by the joint g20 finance and agriculture ministers meeting to take stock of ongoing policy responses and to identify potential gaps and areas where further action is needed. g20 agriculture ministers have underscored the importance of addressing the current food crisis in a sustainable manner, and they have also highlighted the urgency of accelerating the transformation of our food systems. this is fully in line with the outcomes of the 2021 un food systems summit and the eu’s own sustainability agenda, as set by the european green deal and the farm to fork strategy. this will require enhanced responsible investments by both private and public sectors at all levels to strengthen the long-term resilience of food systems in the poorest countries and to support, in particular, smallholders and family farmers. we all support the g20 agriculture ministers’ reiterated commitment to halving global food waste and losses and to improve the transparency of global commodities markets and promote an open and predictable trade environment. these are all critical and necessary actions to address the food crisis and move towards sustainable food systems. the eu will continue working with its international partners, including the rome-based un agencies, to mitigate the risks of disruption of supply chains and to control dangerous domino effects of surging global food prices. the eu will also continue working with its like-minded partners to keep commodities markets open and avoid export restrictions and other trade-disrupting measures.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, honourable minister, i welcome today’s debate on food security, which follows the fruitful exchanges prior to the european parliament resolution on 6 july this year on addressing food security in developing countries, as well as the discussion on fertilisers earlier this month. reports show an increasing number of acutely food—insecure people, now exceeding 200 million worldwide, and projections of famine in somalia, afghanistan, ethiopia, yemen, nigeria and south sudan. the cause: russia’s invasion of ukraine, which continues to have a dramatic impact on the ukrainian people and on increasing food insecurity worldwide. this is the reason, honourable members. it is not, as russia claims, eu sanctions that deepen global food insecurity. our sanctions were precisely designed to exempt agricultural products. russia’s actions endanger the lives of many around the globe. they also actively hamper the work of multilateral bodies to address the food crisis. this disruption is particularly visible in organisations that require unanimity to operate, such as the g20. at the g20 agriculture ministers’ meeting in bali on 28 september, for the first time in the history of the g20s, ministers were unable to agree on a communique. the indonesian chair of the g20 resorted to publishing merely a chair’s summary of the discussions. the chair’s summary reflects that in all substantial areas, from the transition towards sustainable food systems to the importance of open, rules-based trade, g20 members have achieved consensus and even progress compared to previous years. however, russia’s insistence on denying basic facts and its attempt to instrumentalise multilateral forums to spread disinformation have led to a deadlock on a single paragraph. this illustrates why we must vigorously challenge moscow’s narrative. it is the russian authorities that block the work of the international organisation. it is the russian authorities that push for global food insecurity in the hope to blackmail countries to support their illegal and brutal aggression. in fact, the majority of g20 members condemned russia’s actions and russia remained mostly isolated. the diplomatic efforts of the eu vis-à-vis the g20 continue to be largely productive. beyond the g20, the eu is fully committed to continue working with global partners alongside member states in relevant organisations such as the united nations or the wto, and engage with regional groupings such as the african union. with our partners in africa, we already started preparing the next ministerial conference, to be held in summer 2023 in rome. in the un general assembly held in september, the eu was also vocal in the meetings, focusing on food security, with a dedicated summit on global food security, where we have again committed to strengthening international cooperation and partnership initiatives. in the world trade organization, the eu is actively engaged in implementing the outcomes of the 12th ministerial conference. this engagement in multilateral forums is part of the eu’s broader commitment to enhance food security worldwide and to stand with our ukrainian neighbours. we need a coordinated response. we cannot afford to duplicate efforts. honourable members, the eu has reacted quickly and resolutely to this complex crisis through a comprehensive response in the eu, through a range of measures to support farmers, the agri—food industry and consumers, and also, globally, using a team europe approach along four strands of action. first, a solidarity strand to step up emergency aid and macro—economic support. second, a production strand to drive the transition towards sustainable and resilient food systems, especially by investing in local small—scale producers and food entrepreneurs. third, a trade strand to keep markets open and facilitate food trade by getting grains out of ukraine, including via the eu-ukraine solidarity lanes. this has allowed over 12.5 million tonnes of grains to leave ukraine since may 2022. it was complemented by 6 million tonnes exported through the un—brokered black sea grain initiative. and last, the fourth one, a multilateral strand, which i have just presented. the eu backs these actions with a solid financial package and has already committed eur 7.7 billion until 2024, with over eur 2 billion of humanitarian food and nutrition assistance. a 32% increase as compared to 2021. almost eur 5 billion to support the transition to sustainable food systems in partner countries, including additional eur 350 million in the acp countries and eur 225 million for the middle east and north africa to ensure better resilience. eu member states and the european development banks should further increase this contribution. the extension of the black sea initiative beyond 16 november is key. the sustainability of this deal should lead commercial insurers and shipping companies to make greater use of the black sea route. thanks to these measures, global prices for key commodities, such as wheat and mace, have dropped around 20% by september, almost reaching pre-war levels. however, another challenge is looming for the next harvest season. there are real concerns about the situation regarding the supply and affordability of fertilisers. the market situation for fertilisers, together with a general increase of input costs, impacts farmers and their planting decisions, as they may fear a squeeze in incomes. agricultural production relies on fertilisers to achieve good yields. we are working to reduce dependency on mineral fertilisers. however, in the short term, lower use implies lower yields, in europe and globally. here again, russia pretends sanctions are responsible for hampering global fertiliser availability and affordability. we need to be clear: sanctions do not prevent russia from exporting fertilisers to third countries. we have just recently provided additional written guidance to the member states and industry to explain that. on the contrary, it is russia itself who has adopted measures restricting the export of fertilisers to third countries, including the military destruction of export infrastructure through ukraine. in this context, the commission plans to adopt a communication on fertilisers which will address the situation on the eu market and globally.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. october is the month of harvest. last sunday was world food day. there is a reason why we celebrate these occasions every year, namely, that our daily bread and the availability of fresh and healthy food are not taken for granted. i know i am repeating myself, but i would like to take this opportunity to thank our european farmers once again. they have shown, first during the pandemic and then with the ukraine crisis, that they can ensure our food supply, despite all the difficulties. the commission still does not seem to have attached the importance it deserves to food safety. i am thinking of the months of struggle to suspend the glöz-7 and glöz-8 standards for crop rotation and set-aside for next year so that our european agriculture can make its contribution to food security in the world. the sur and the nature restoration law are the next two pieces of food for farmers, which in the long run will mean less than more food on our tables. in other words, no matter what could have been done this year to ensure food security, the commission still does not seem to want to put food security at the top of the agenda. the rest of the world will have noted this with astonishment. the solidarity lanes are a positive feature. the commission must ensure that the development of these is advanced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the international community should ensure that this remains possible. i wouldn't count on it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. leave no one behind that was the motto of world food day on 16 october 2022. no one is to be left behind. but what is the reality? some 830 million people go hungry every day. more than 340 million people are at risk of acute famine. and about 50 million people are waiting to die unless something decisive happens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. people who wouldn't have to die because this earth has enough for everyone. and as long as men face this fate, as long as one child must die of hunger, this world is at war. in war, where guns kill, but also where people die silently because they are deprived of the necessities of life. that is why we must not give up, ladies and gentlemen. and we need to act. at the moment, we are only raising about 20% of the funds for the humanitarian aid that is needed. the eu has provided an additional 100 million. that's good. but we have to move on and close the gaps. we have to extract the extra profits. there are an infinite number of new billionaires in the big business of the agricultural sector. and we need to make agriculture sustainable so that it can feed those who need us as producers... (the president cut the speaker off)
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not for the vast majority of people in europe, the last few decades have seen a secure supply of extremely cheap and high-quality food as a matter of course. the covid pandemic has threatened supply chains. a great effort was needed to ensure that the necessities of life were provided everywhere. first of all, we must give a lot of credit to all those involved in the food value chain, especially the farming families, without whose reliable work the supply would not be possible. challenges can only be met by courageous and courageous action. and this is also necessary now with the war against ukraine. in november, 50 agriculture ministers will meet at the oecd meeting to address the global food crisis. i would like to ask the commission what the eu's response is to this. we need to strengthen cooperation and coordination between the g20 members. but we must also use all the means available to us to strengthen food production in the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the municipal water directive requires the separation of phosphorus and its recycling in agriculture. we need more organic fertilisers and more biogas production. the trade policy also needs to be adjusted. food security must be taken into account in land use. i would like to ask the commission how it intends to reconcile the proposals for restoration, deforestation and the soil health act so that food security within the european union is not jeopardised.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to welcome a highlight of the conclusions of the g20 agriculture summit: sustainable food systems are the key to food security. i hope that this simple statement will be more audible to the agricultural status quoists in this house if it comes from the g20 specifically. however, there is one major missing element in these conclusions: financial speculation on food. of course, war has had and always has had a major impact on farm prices. the increasingly severe climate change is alarmingly amplifying the threats of ever more frequent crises. but as with every food crisis, some are taking shameful advantage of the chaos to increase their profits. how can we continue to allow speculators to get rich while the queues at the food banks in europe are getting longer and hundreds of millions of men, women and children are suffering from hunger all over the world? fortunately, we can still stop it. this parliament will soon have to decide on the revision of the regulatory framework for financial markets. so, ladies and gentlemen, let us not miss the opportunity to exclude access to food from these cynical and indecent practices.
mr president, there are three billion people in the world whose protein intake depends on fisheries, depends on the oceans. and yet, when you read the conclusions of this g20 summit, there is nothing. nothing on fisheries, nothing on aquaculture. (the president cut the speaker off) and for good reason, many of the countries around the g20 table are happily and industrially engaged in illegal fishing. this illegal fishing that plunders resources, that constantly endangers the lives of these three billion individuals. what about us in all this? we run after our fishermen to check the size of each fish, the mesh of each net, but most importantly, we import 70 percent of the seafood we consume. at best, we indulge in the illusion that they have been legally fished by others over whom we have no control. but we have to face the facts: every time we eat a fish that comes from outside, we are eating into the plate of these three billion individuals. it is high time, dear friends, that here in the european union we put on the table the question of the contribution of fisheries and aquaculture to overall food security.
i very much appreciate the concerns of the g20 agriculture ministers, but they must be followed by the implementation of balanced policies in the agricultural sector. the war in ukraine has disrupted agricultural markets and exacerbated the already dire situation caused by covid-19, putting additional pressure on food security and causing food prices to rise. commissioner, i very much appreciate your comments on the fertiliser issue and i agree with what you are saying. but today farmers are under increasing pressure from the european commission, and the regulation on the reduction of pesticide use and the directive on the reduction of industrial emissions, they're getting your attention, they can irreparably destroy our farmers and by implication cause hunger and migration. we have to understand that this war started by russia is not just a war waged with weapons, but also a war for food and energy. the world's population is continuing to grow, reaching over 10 billion in 2050, which, according to studies, means an increase in agricultural production of over 70% compared to the present period. the european union and the world's nations must take swift and concrete action to ensure food security at both the european and global levels. in other words, we have to turn challenges into opportunities. however, farmers need support to produce what they need (and i am talking about farmers in the european union and farmers outside the european union). i don't want to get to the point where the liter of milk and the kilogram of meat are seen as a museum piece, out of reach for the general consumer, especially in the poor areas of the world.
mr president, commissioner, in the last global food security crisis, in 2008, 40 countries experienced civil unrest directly as a result. so when it comes to global food security, we as a parliament have to ask ourselves one question. should the european union do all it can to ensure that people have physical and economic access to safe food? and yet the humanitarian financing gap, the difference between needs and resources, has never been higher. europe is clearly not doing everything it can. and while the commitments made by the g20 agriculture ministers are very welcome, there is clearly more to do. according to the world hunger index, published last week by concern worldwide and welthungerhilfe, levels of world hunger are becoming catastrophic. forty-four countries are facing serious or alarming levels of hunger. and just this evening, reports say that doctors on the ground expect a famine to be declared in somalia next month. and how has europe responded? well, we have responded by cutting development and humanitarian aid in the ongoing budget negotiations.
mr president, the food crisis is a real threat and the european union must do everything possible to eliminate it, to prevent it as much as possible. it's being driven by putin's war, no doubt, and it's putting thousands of people at risk of dying every day, tens of millions of people in extreme poverty, hit by a combination of various crises -- geopolitical, climate, of course, energy -- all of which are driving up food prices. i am convinced that the european union has the capacity to prevent this food crisis - in cooperation, of course, with our partners - and to ensure food security at european level. that's one of the other goals, of course. self-sufficiency is an illusion in many countries, but for the eu it must be one of the fundamental tasks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like the european parliament to call on the g20 countries to make a firm commitment to help the poorest countries to strengthen their food security. these countries are the first victims of the food blackmail exercised by putin in his war against ukraine. in the short term, action must be taken quickly with initiatives such as the french government's 'crop rescue' operation. the need for fertilisers is so great that the poorer countries can produce their own food. in the long term, we must also help them to break free from their dependence on the rest of the world. improving the sustainability and resilience of their production to climate change is essential. we also need to invest in research and innovation. i therefore regret that the european commission's proposal on new gene editing techniques is not expected before the last half of 2023. there is an urgent need to find effective solutions to reduce input consumption, which would have a dual economic and environmental benefit.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this rich debate. you have pointed to the multiple considerations that are at the heart of the food security crisis we are facing. its complexity requires coherent and coordinated solutions. we need close collaboration between the eu institutions, member states and also international partners. obviously, the european parliament will also play an important role and we will strive to provide you with regular updates about the crisis and our response. we need to continue working with member states in a team europe approach across the various dimensions of food security and to coordinate our response with global partners in the context of the united nations, the g7, g20, and other forums. let me react to some of the comments or questions. first, on fertilisers. i want to repeat again that, for the beginning of november, the commission is preparing a communication on fertilisers. the eu is supporting the development of organic fertilisers and plants which require less fertilisers. also, on the need to support farmers, the member states will have the flexibility to take account of the new situation in their common agricultural policy strategic plans, which, as you know, are connected with the use of european agricultural funding. the last reaction – on your comments on increase of production. we need to look at the current crisis and enable a production increase, but we also need to ensure long-term food security by transforming our food systems towards sustainability. honourable members, there is no single solution to address this crisis. however, and we all know that the most effective step would be for russia to stop immediately its military aggression and stop using food and energy as geopolitical weapons, which undermines food security worldwide. therefore, in close collaboration with you, we will keep the pressure on russia and will support effective multilateral solutions to prevent a possible global food crisis.
president—in—office of the council. – mr president, vice—president of the commission, honourable members, ensuring global food security is a key priority for the eu, and i am pleased to see that parliament shares our views on these matters. first of all, let me underline that i’m here in my capacity as presidency of the council, and i should not comment on the situation of individual member states. i would expect that the distinction between the role of a representative of the council and the role of a member of a national government is not only understood, but even respected by members of this house. coming back to global food security, which is the topic of this debate, our actions to address food security are part of a wider effort by the international community, which must continue to be coordinated by the united nations. we will keep working with our international partners to prevent further escalation of the food security crisis and to alleviate the immediate humanitarian needs. we will keep supporting ongoing un—led efforts to keep the black sea maritime route open for ukrainian grain exports. this is crucial; the world needs ukrainian cereals. in parallel, we will pursue our action to facilitate transport of ukrainian grain overland through the solidarity lanes. beyond this food crisis and the immediate humanitarian needs, decisive action is needed to address the root causes of hunger, malnutrition and food insecurity in the world. we will step up our efforts to help vulnerable countries in making their food systems more resilient and reducing their import dependency.
the debate on this item is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the union's primary obligation is to help its own member states to achieve predictable agricultural production. but we must not forget our african partners, where the growing hunger threatens to trigger a new wave of mass migration. together, ukraine and russia provide 30% of the world's food needs. what is crucial is how this tool of power is used by the warring parties, primarily russia. we must see that the global food crisis and dependence on russian and ukrainian food exports disproportionately affect africa, where about 80% of the population's food needs are imported from outside the continent, almost entirely from ukraine and russia. we are facing a setback: africa has two million square kilometers of arable land that is not being used, yet 278 million people are at risk of starvation. the dramatic situation is further aggravated by the deteriorating security situation across the continent. in ethiopia, the sahel region, and nigeria, armed conflicts and increasing attacks by religious extremists are also preventing farmers from working the land. only african responses can be a sustainable solution to food security in africa! the union should find ways of working with african countries and other international partners to help strengthen the continent's agricultural production. supporting local farmers, improving market access and using agricultural technologies that can withstand the effects of climate change, including the use of modern water management systems, are essential.
in writing. the current economic and energy crisis in the world and in europe is deepening and destabilising the global food market. in this context, the european union and its member states must start to coordinate their actions more closely to help tackle rising prices and provide support to the poorest people and families. rising prices mean that people cannot afford to buy as much food as they could a few months ago, and low-income households, including in the union, face even more difficulties and costs. the first thing to do is to start by supporting eu agri-food production; that is, by supporting our farmers so that they can produce more food for the european market. it is important that member states support eu farmers who suffer from higher production costs. but this requires reform of the eu's agricultural policy and an increase in financial resources for agriculture. it is also necessary to finally put an end to discrimination against farmers from the new member states and to achieve a level playing field in the union as regards the payment per hectare. in this way, we will encourage farmers in countries like lithuania to increase their crops and agricultural production. derogations from certain cap requirements, such as set-aside, are also necessary. in the present situation, there is no need for land reclamation. let us not forget that in times of crisis the union must help the poorest of the poor.
the next item is the explanation of vote.
mr president, dear colleagues, i co-sign and support the general budget amendment concerning the commission’s financing of a campaign promoting the hijab. i supported this amendment two weeks ago. i supported it today. and i should and i, should it be necessary, will support it again. i find it perplexing that the union’s budget, our taxpayers’ money, is used to finance a campaign that trivialises the mandatory veiling, and especially today, at a time when the women of iran are fighting for freedom and dignity. let me, however, also express my disappointment at those in this house who so often speak about the right to choose and yet shamefully voted against this amendment. if we truly support women’s right to choose, then we should firmly say ‘no’ to mandatory veiling and not fund programmes that trivialise it. it is both a question of defending human dignity and the values on which our society is founded on.
mr president, imagine for a moment that every european receives a cheque for 300 euros to cope with the price explosion and to get out of the water. 300 euros per person, it sounds too good to be true and yet, money, there is, just go and get it. 300 euros per european is the amount we could have given if we had only contributed those who are getting the most. but this money, the renaissance group, the right and the far right, together decided to leave it in the hands of the ultra-rich by refusing to vote my amendments to the 2022 budget on taxing the most speculative financial transactions and on a tax on the super-profits of large companies in all sectors, which would have brought in 130 billion euros a year. by rejecting our proposals as a whole, the right and the far right have therefore in reality stolen 300 euros from each european citizen. so to the privileged who sit on a pile of gold and to the elected accomplices who protect them, i would like to say one thing: return the money.
mr president, i supported this draft budget because, of course, the adoption of this budget represents a challenge to parliament to find a budget that is proportionate. i think the final text and the approved text respond sufficiently to the crisis we are facing. of course, this budget is balanced. you know that the european union cannot live on debt in this sense, something else was the post-covid recovery, where a special program was adopted. however, to achieve our goals, whether it is employment, digitisation, closing the gap between regions, digitisation as such, innovation, i am convinced that this budget is meeting those goals. that's why i supported him. i am interested, however, in how he will deal with any so-called new money that will be based on inflationary growth. i think we should focus on that next year.
mr president, what is the point of voting on this text on so-called sustainable marine fuels without asking more broadly the question of the 10 billion tonnes of goods that cross the world every year on ultra-polluting container ships? an iphone, for example, travels 20 times around the earth before it reaches your hand. a shrimp caught in the north sea travels 6,700 kilometres to reach our plate, passing through morocco, the netherlands and germany. this is a direct result of the free trade promoted by the european union, which imports meat from brazil, cereals from canada and milk from new zealand. similarly, what good is it to debate the colour of the fuel used in large ships without asking about the impact of, for example, the gigantic cruise ships that ravage the oceans and pollute venice, barcelona and marseille in turn? so instead of trying to green a mode of transportation that will always remain ultra-polluting, let's stop the great migration of the world and organize the relocation of our food and our industry, and even, i would say, of our leisure.
mr president, i have supported this draft report. i think it represents a welcome step forward again, because shipping has remained a little bit out of our sight. we've settled for a sea that's free and we have virtually no control over it. i think it is therefore good that the commission has also proposed a proposal for a regulation which sets out the requirements which must also apply to maritime transport in europe in this respect. citizens have pointed out how grossly unenvironmentally unfriendly the various maritime operators are. it also plans to reduce emissions in maritime transport. the trajectory is set, i think, according to this regulation correctly. it is important to note that, of course, in shipping, it is technologically more difficult to achieve zero emissions, that is undeniable. but we're talking about these emissions that absolutely have to be reduced. that's why i voted for this motion.
mr president, i also supported this draft regulation, although i did not vote for the end of the production of combustion engines from 2035 for a number of good reasons, but i think that this proposal is certainly going in the right direction. if we want to promote the use of alternative fuels, whether it's hydrogen, electricity or, in a certain sense, even lng if it's produced from biomass, it's important that this support for these fuels is also accompanied by development, massive development and investment in infrastructure to ensure the use and availability of these fuels. all the proposals that have made, say, this network of infrastructure accessibility or make this network of infrastructure accessible, i've supported, whether it's sixty kilometers on the highway for electric chargers or a hundred and fifty kilometers for hydrogen. i think this proposal is really going in the right direction.
since we are the last two members on this matter, we are closing this matter. so the explanations of vote are over.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, thursday 20 october 2022, at 9.00 a.m. the rules of procedure have been published and are available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this sitting will be tabled for parliament's approval in the early afternoon of tomorrow.
i am very pleased to be able to report to the commissioner responsible in this house something very gratifying: the president has received the council's position at first reading, including the reasons for adopting it. the commission's views and observations were also received. the title shall be published in the minutes of this meeting. the three-month period for parliament to express its views will therefore begin tomorrow, 21 october 2022. it is a matter that has been discussed for many years and has now been adopted by the council, namely the directive on women on boards, which i am now calling the "women on boards directive" on the balanced representation of women and men on supervisory boards.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on solidarity with ukraine in the cultural field and a joint emergency aid mechanism for the recovery of culture in europe by sabine verheyen, on behalf of the committee on culture and education (o-000030/2022 b9-0026/2022).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the war in ukraine shows that the unthinkable is possible and unpredictability is the new normal. in addition to military aggression, russia is also waging war on the cultural front. this is expressed in the destruction and the attempt to remove the ukrainian cultural heritage from its history, culture and tradition. in this context, the cult committee adopted a motion for a resolution on solidarity and emergency aid for culture and cultural heritage in response to the russian attack and the destruction of cultural heritage in ukraine, with a view to developing new cooperation mechanisms for the reconstruction of culture and for future emergencies. this resolution clearly identifies the facts that russia's war against ukraine is an attempt to erase the identity and culture of a sovereign nation, including through strategic and targeted acts of destruction of cultural sites. we believe that the eu institutions, national governments, private partners and civil society need to work together systematically and effectively to address the complexity and scale of this man-made disaster. this will be achieved by mobilising strategic multi-stakeholder partnerships across the eu. the commission should propose an appropriate legal and fiscal framework for such crossborder actions. the russian invasion is particularly dangerous for artists and cultural workers, journalists and scientists. freedom of the arts, the quality of news, the independence of the media and access to information, academic freedom and freedom of expression are threatened, curtailed and denied by russia. we need to act together to support ukrainian cultural actors, universities and civil society in protecting their cultural assets and infrastructure and to develop a roadmap with ukraine for reconstruction. finally, we call on the commission and the member states to integrate culture into all major eu policy priorities, such as climate change, digital transformation, economic reconstruction and international relations. that is why our questions to the commission are: what action will the commission take to counter russia's propaganda and disinformation campaigns? secondly, does the commission intend to mobilise additional resources and take additional measures to support the cultural and creative sectors and cultural workers in ukraine, in addition to the policy measures already announced? does it intend to provide adequate support for the restoration of ukraine's cultural and architectural heritage? thirdly, will the commission integrate culture into all policy areas in order to create a resilient european cultural area? will it consider the possibility of establishing an eu emergency and recovery mechanism specifically targeting culture, cultural heritage and creative ecosystems, but also based on a multi-stakeholder approach? we must support and help ukraine to preserve and restore its cultural integrity. this is also the task of a values-based european union.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the good news which you relayed this morning, honourable members, we all know that the russian aggression against ukraine not only takes place on the ground, but also in the media and cultural fields. it is our duty to help our ukrainian friends win the disinformation war and support the cultural and creative sectors, which had been damaged due to the widespread destruction of infrastructure in villages and cities, which includes extensive damage to tangible and intangible heritage. culture is essential for the resilience and for the recovery of the country. in response to the question related to the implementation of further measures to counter russia’s propaganda and disinformation campaign, the commission acted on several fronts. first, limiting broadcasting and dissemination: we adopted sanctions against the russian state media, suspending the broadcast of their content to the eu. to ensure this, and in line with the code of practice on disinformation, we have been in regular contact with the major online platforms: google, meta, microsoft, tiktok and twitter. second also comes fact-checking: we have built on the experience of the eu, which has been acting against russian disinformation since 2015. the european digital media observatory coordinates actions by eu fact checkers and researchers. the commission supports the government of ukraine to improve its own capacities in countering disinformation, in close cooperation with civil society and using the expertise of european counterparts. thirdly, education: on 11 october of this year, the commission published guidelines for teachers and educators with practical guidance for promoting digital literacy and tackling disinformation through education and training. these guidelines reflect the fundamental role education has in media literacy. this is in addition to the external action service’s east stratcom task force, which has been acting against russian disinformation and information-manipulating campaigns since 2015. this involves strategic communication, raising awareness, monitoring and the analysis of foreign information manipulation. in response to the question about the possibility to mobilise further resources to assist cultural and creative sectors and professionals in ukraine, the commission implemented since the onset of the russian aggression against ukraine important initiatives which can be further enhanced, and i shall highlight some. since the very outset of the russian invasion, the commission showed flexibility to cope with the immediate needs of ukrainian cultural and creative sectors. under creative europe, we extended deadlines for ongoing calls, thereby allowing projects in the making to include ukrainian organisations and artists in their proposals. and we are proud to see that the sector has responded quickly and favourably. then we designed special provisions to allow for swift available funding through mobility grants for artists via the new ‘culture moves europe’ scheme. ukrainian artists are eligible under the scheme, which has a total budget of eur 21 million and will offer good and concrete opportunity for artists over the next three years. we will also support grass-roots organisations for small-scale projects through the house of europe programme, which fosters professional and creative exchange and comes with a budget of almost eur 12 million. in order to allow artists and organisations to engage in and continue their operations even if they are displaced, we launched a special creative europe call for ukraine with a financial envelope of eur 5 million. the special call open until 29 november includes eur 2 million to support ukrainians’ access to culture and use of the arts to facilitate the integration of displaced people and eur 1 million to assess assist ukrainian institutions with expertise and training, with a view to prepare the recovery of the cultural and creative sectors. we also plan to facilitate long-term cooperation between eu, european and ukrainian organisations to reinforce their mutual link. our creative europe upcoming cooperation call has an overall budget of eur 60 million. in order to secure the protection of cultural heritage in the country, we will also provide expertise to build the capacity of ukrainian cultural heritage professionals to deal with the protection of cultural heritage with a smaller, dedicated action under creative europe that will complement the support provided by member states or relevant organisations. when it comes to emergency action, we are supporting the protection of ukrainian cultural heritage through other eu funding sources, such as the eu civil protection mechanism, in cooperation with the member states, which has been activated for cultural heritage for the first time in europe, as well as through the rapid response pillar of the neighbourhood development and international cooperation instrument, which provided eur 2 million to the aliph foundation. other ongoing eu-funded projects provide financial support to recruit ukrainian artists and cultural professionals such as the eu for culture, which is a regional programme for eastern partnership countries. on mainstreaming culture across all policy fields with a view to building a resilient european cultural space, i confirm that this is part of the european union’s priorities in the field of culture. i highlight the commission’s satisfaction with the recovery and resilience facility, which is going to bring a great amount of resources and to the cultural and creative sectors. in their national plans, member states have been showing determination to earmark significant funding to improve their creative and cultural sectors. the impact of the facility can be counted in more than eur 10 billion-worth of measures directly supporting culture and representing approximately 2% of the 26 national recovery and resilience plans in all so far. the eu has already proven its capacity to face and react to global changes when standing united. the commission can, for instance, apply flexibility clauses under existing programmes and financial instruments to provide emergency response. this was done directly in the context of the covid-19 pandemic and again at the onset of russia’s unjustified invasion of ukraine. no new mechanisms are needed. i trust that we can achieve a lot by maximising the impact of existing instruments. the union’s civil protection mechanism was used for the first time by ukraine to request protection of cultural heritage. italy, germany and norway provided kits, equipment and sandbags to protect cultural assets.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the russian war of aggression against ukraine is exacerbating the plight of the already very fragile cultural sector. the effects of the covid crisis are far from over. rising energy costs and inflation are creating new problems. but culture is more than the intellectual enjoyment of opera houses, museums, theatres and music halls. culture is about arguing, discussing, sounding the alarm. culture creates public discourse. the task of cultural policy is therefore to make culture possible and visible in all its diversity. the survival of culture in public space is the guarantee of the human right to culture and at the same time allows the critical examination of political decisions and social conditions. if culture is pushed out of the public sphere, it robs the community as a whole of an important part of the public discourse. this critical and constructive task can only be well fulfilled by cultural enterprises which are confident of surviving the crises. politics must provide the financial and structural security that art and culture can do something, sometimes even surprise us. because it is not just the aesthetic culture, but the culture of engagement and appreciation, and sometimes polarization, that moves us forward as a society. we therefore need rapid and effective national and european mechanisms to guarantee this security. we have made some suggestions in this connection. ladies and gentlemen, with targeted acts of violence such as direct attacks on cultural heritage sites, the russian army is pursuing the goal of destroying ukrainian identity. cultural workers and journalists in ukraine live in constant fear. i would like to remind you of the conductor of the kherson philharmonic, yuri kerpatenko, who was allegedly murdered by the russian occupiers a few days ago. he probably died because he didn't want to be associated with russian propaganda. under the prevailing conditions, culture cannot develop the value that is so important. it must be ensured that a free ukrainian culture has a firm place in ukrainian society and does not fall victim to putin's aggression. we have also made some suggestions on how we can help. yes, art and culture have been politically exploited many times throughout history. and yes, there are artists who defend or even condone putin's war of aggression. but we should also not forget that art and culture are often enough also expressions of resistance to oppression. the eu seems to be witnessing a steady increase in cases of russian artists being removed from libraries, conductors, singers, ballet dancers being suspended or russian writers being excluded. we would do well not to introduce a culture of confession. as long as individuals do not actively support putin's human rights-destroying policies or openly reject our liberal democratic order, neither their passport nor their lack of political attitude should be a disadvantage. freedom includes not taking a political stand. we must not allow the exclusion of russian artists and cultural workers who do not support this war of aggression. moreover, to exclude dostoevsky and tchaikovsky from the repertoire is not an expression of political correctness, it is simply nonsense. and let us not forget: culture can build bridges -- maybe not now, but hopefully in the not too distant future.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, last week we learned that yuri kerpatenko, the leader of a ukrainian orchestra, was shot by russian machine guns and murdered in his home in kherson. his crime: refusing to participate in a propaganda concert to celebrate the illegal annexation of his region. russian power knows no limits in horror. this war is a war against our values in which artists are the designated targets. when you want to subjugate a people, you erase their history, their heritage, their memory, their culture, their freedom of expression. history is a cruel reminder of this. since the conflict began, nearly 200 cultural sites have been destroyed or damaged. we can mention the historic centre of kyiv, the babi yar holocaust memorial centre, and the mariupol theatre, which was bombed while it was sheltering thousands of ukrainians. today, we must prevent destruction and plunder. we must fight against misinformation. ukrainian artists must be given the means to express themselves, which is a way of resisting. we are already supporting them and we must do more. this is the call we are making today to the european parliament. it's an emergency. in 2020, we voted on a resolution calling for the rescue of the eu's cultural and creative sectors in times of pandemic; we'll try again. we must continue to help ukrainian artists, yes, but by significantly increasing the means. instead of cutting the budget for creative europe by €90 million, as planned for 2023, let's increase it, let's sanctify it! this is an unacceptable cut in the times we live in. and yes, commissioner, we need new instruments. what we are asking for is a specific emergency mechanism for the cultural industries which are the first to suffer in all the times of crisis we are living through. let us invest in culture, our democracies will do better.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! once, our polish compatriot pope said that the polish people express themselves through their culture. i think that's true of any nation. the ukrainian people also express themselves through their culture. these actions, which seek to destroy monuments and cultural assets, are actually actions that strike at the national identity of our neighbour, that is, poland and the european union. it's good that we're having this debate. it's good that despite our differences, we speak with one voice on this matter. can we do much? we can speak, we can appeal, but we can also influence the european commission to deliver the promised funds to ukraine, as it has promised to do. and it makes me a little sad to hear from our ukrainian colleagues that the americans, when they promise, they deliver. and if the european union promises, it either lends or postpones even those loans. the situation in which the president of the european commission is once again in kiev and repeats the same promises as before, without having yet fulfilled them, is a bit embarrassing for us as a union. i'm glad we're speaking with one voice about supporting ukraine.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. why do we link support for ukrainian culture with support for the cultural landscape across europe? it is a pity that the colleague from the id with her anti-european attitude is no longer in the chamber. that is the question. the answer is simple: it is about solidarity with ukraine, its heritage, its artists at home and in exile, which does not end at a time when european culture is still suffering severely from the consequences of the pandemic. and i am, like mrs kammerevert, in favour of a dialogue with the russian and belarusian opposition, which must not be forgotten. because progressive culture, in all regional identity-building, always has a multi-layered dimension of history and dialogue, across all borders. i would have liked to have given that to my colleague from the afd. i therefore ask the commission to consider not only the establishment of a european emergency and recovery mechanism for cultural producers but also to launch this overdue mechanism without delay.
the european union is unilaterally projecting russia's responsibility, diminishing the dimensions of a huge problem of destruction of cultural monuments for which it bears equally enormous responsibility. you use the issue purposefully for your war propaganda and present the disasters as a consequence of the imperialist war in ukraine by distorting reality. the problem is much bigger. it started with the counterrevolutionary upheavals. when you were praising putin, your "child" and his ilk. destruction of anti-fascist and soviet monuments is being reported in russia and ukraine, but also in poland, the baltic states, germany, the balkans, and in finland the last statue of lenin has just been removed. the destruction and vandalism is accompanied by provocative replacement by nazi constructions. we met with unesco in paris, which is limited to monitoring perpetual crime. we stress the urgent need to take measures to protect anti-fascist and soviet monuments and to put an end to the reprehensible actions of governments, regional authorities and nazi gangs against the cultural heritage and historical memory of peoples. the european union must be able to take action to protect the environment and to ensure that the environment is protected.
the uachtaráin has a special role in the culture and integration of the local community. it's not important that people marry. culture can be created between different people or different tribes as differences exist. in accordance with the laws of the european union, cultural differences can be shared and people can be linked to different cultures and traditions. putin has already done a lot to create ukraine. the sea is our home, the sea is our salvation, but the sea is not putin's. as a donor, she aims to strengthen the faith and culture in ukraine through writing and laws. i won't stop until everything in ukraine is lost here. the russian federation has adopted a cultural law and the cultural assets of ukraine are part of the strategic approach to combating illegal immigration in ukraine. i welcome the commission's efforts to support artists and cultural organisations in the region. i also acknowledge the cultural support of the commission in the member states. it is now being held in cultural centers in the united states and in the ukraine in our own world. i'm going to share, i hope i'm going to be able to welcome to the church before the people in ukraine to be equal to the foe. come on in, i hope you'll respect us and behave yourself. we must support cultural diversity at local and regional level. as a shiocair, we must invest in our money on a good basis so that we can reap the benefits.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i will not stop repeating that culture is essential for all peoples. it carries values, a heritage, a legacy, wealth, identities. it is therefore essential that the european union preserves and supports culture, at all times and everywhere, and especially in times of war. the cultural sector is always one of the most affected by conflicts or authoritarian regimes. this resolution addresses two essential points. russia's war in ukraine is also a cultural war that seeks to eradicate ukrainian identity and culture. we must give massive support to culture and cultural actors in ukraine and preserve heritage. but we also need to ensure that this support is not at the expense of europe's cultural sectors, whose situation has worsened with covid. to this end, it is essential that the union provides targeted assistance to all cultural actors, but also, madam commissioner, a european emergency response and recovery mechanism to support cultural and creative ecosystems, so that they are no longer victims of all the crises we are experiencing. it's our duty.
madam president, commissioner, in mariupol the russian army destroyed the memorial to the holodomor, the starvation extermination organized by stalin between 1932 and 1933 which caused millions of deaths. this is just one example among many of the violations of ukrainian heritage since 2014 and the annexation of crimea. the destruction is compounded by looting: as of february 2022, more than 200 works of art have been stolen from melitopol. the looting was accompanied by murders: the conductor yuri kerpatenko was shot dead in his own house in kherson. russia has no respect for classified sites, international conventions, or human lives. unesco is powerless against the russian machine of destruction. unfortunately, since 2020, unesco has also failed to intervene to protect the armenian heritage threatened with destruction by azerbaijan in nagorno-karabakh. we would like to see more determination, more courage and a sense of mission on the part of the un organization, but we are still waiting. so, if we can't save what has been destroyed, let's help ukrainian artists, at home and in europe. we do and we're right. let us also help the russian artists and intellectuals who fled their country because they did not support the war. they need us and we need them so that one day, as soon as possible, they can bring russia back to the light.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the covid-19 pandemic and now the russian aggression against ukraine have forced us to act quickly to respond to the unforeseen needs of the cultural and creative sectors. the joint and coherent mobilisation of our different instruments, the use of flexibility, the cooperation with member states and, above all, an open dialogue with ukrainian authorities have been key to adapt our mechanisms and provide concrete solutions and financial responses to the sectors. what those two crises also confirmed to us is that culture is key for the resilience and the building of our societies. that is why overall funding for culture at national and european level should be adequate.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 20 october 2022. ___________* see minutes written declarations (rule 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to address the court of first instance in writing.
in writing. hungary has already condemned russia's aggression in ukraine on numerous occasions, opened its borders to ukrainian refugees, including ukrainian artists, teachers, students, university students, workers in the cultural sector. in addition, the hungarian government has embarked on its largest humanitarian action to date to help the survival of ukrainian residents and institutions that have fled and remained in the country, suffering from the consequences of the war. the hungarian people opened their hearts, their homes to people fleeing from the areas of eastern ukraine directly affected by the war, children in transcarpathia and hungary, everyone feels with the innocent victims and condemns the unnecessary destruction, the destruction of monuments and cultural heritage. it is very important to do everything possible to preserve the ukrainian historical, intellectual and material cultural heritage as much as possible, and that is why peace must be promoted, because the longer the war lasts, the more victims there are, the more cultural and artistic values are destroyed. it is part of the european principles and values that we respect each other's historical memories and symbols, and therefore it is incomprehensible and regrettable that in this difficult war situation for everyone, the leadership of the transcarpathian city of munkács decided to remove the turul statue from the munkács castle, which had been there for decades, from one day to the next. culture and history bind people and nations together, so it's important to live it and not abuse it!
in writing. russia is trying to destroy ukrainian identity and culture. in particular, russia is deliberately attacking the cultural heritage of ukraine for this purpose, although this is a war crime under the hague convention. for example, artistic treasures in ukraine are being looted, cultural workers who are not in the hands of the occupiers are being killed, and monuments, monuments and cultural objects are being deliberately attacked. according to unesco, as of 24 february, 192 architectural monuments or sites of cultural importance in ukraine have been damaged, including 81 shrines, 13 museums, 37 historic buildings, 35 cultural venues, 17 monuments and 10 libraries. the eu must help ukraine to document attacks on cultural heritage and restore damaged monuments. the eu and the member states should also take into account the needs of the cultural sector and the protection of cultural heritage when providing humanitarian aid. ukrainian artists and creative people who are fighting the russian invasion with their creativity deserve recognition. in addition, the european commission should consider the creation of an exceptional financing instrument for culture, cultural heritage and creative ecosystems.
the epp group has sent the president decisions on the amendment of appointments to delegations. these decisions will be published in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the date of this announcement.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on commission implementing regulation (eu) 2022/1614 of 15 september 2022 establishing the existing deep-sea fishing areas and establishing a list of areas where vulnerable marine ecosystems are known or likely to occur (2022/2879 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i really thank you for providing the commission with yet another opportunity to explain the recent implementing act adopted this 15 september, which protects deep—sea vulnerable marine ecosystems in the atlantic from being harmed in fishing operations. it is important to frame our discussion by recalling that this implementing act is based on regulation 2016/2336 of the european parliament and the council regarding specific conditions for fishing for deep—sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and its international waters. this means that the commission has implemented what the co—legislators had already decided in 2016 in this regulation, although four years late due to a lack of necessary data from member states. article 9 of this regulation from 2016 clearly provides that bottom—fishing gears shall be prohibited in vulnerable marine ecosystems below 400 metres. i underline that according to the 2016 regulation, this prohibition is applicable to all bottom—fishing gears without exception, be it bottom trawlers, longliners or others, and that it only concerns areas below 400 metres. as an ecosystem—based approach was used for the delivery of the scientific advice on which this implementing regulation is based, the responsible scientific body, the international council for the exploration of the sea, provided management options that factored in how much fishing activity takes place in the areas containing vmes. based on consultations with stakeholders, the commission proposed a management option that best balances environmental protection and socio—economic implications. so where scientists identified on the basis of data provided by the member states that vessels were fishing a lot in an area with only a few vulnerable ecosystems, the scientists did not identify them as an area subject to the closure under the 2016 regulation. the logic of this innovative approach is to find a balance to maximise conservation and minimise negative economic impact. i want to stress in this context that the scientists based themselves exclusively on the data they had received from member states in time before providing the commission with the advice as the basis for this implementing act. it’s also important to note that the scientific advice is the result of a thorough scientific peer review process which involved leading scientists in the field from all member states, so the scientific organisation providing the advice works based on consensus. another important point is the stakeholder involvement. in view of the sensitivity of this advice, and in order to ensure its smooth implementation, the international council for the exploration of the sea invited for the first time stakeholders, including the fishing sector, to provide feedback to the scientists. the commission extensively involved member states as well as stakeholders, including from the fishing sector, which made this one of the most intense interactions with stakeholders we have seen since the review of the common fisheries policy in 2013. we are, of course, well aware that stakeholders had a lot of issues to deal with during brexit and the covid—19 crisis, and it seems that this opportunity to engage and provide feedback to the commission was not used by all. i believe both the commission and the stakeholders need to learn from this. but let us now look ahead. as you know, we are at the beginning of a process and, in line with the 2016 regulation, the scientific advice will be reviewed every year. we are expecting the new scientific advice by 16 december of this year and, where justified, this could lead to a revision of the areas closed to bottom gears. this is not a sort of concession by the commission. the regulation from 2016 is clear that it is our legal obligation to annually review the list of vulnerable marine ecosystems based on updated advice, and we will do so. but i want to also reiterate that the commission’s acts are based on science, and the same goes for the deep—sea regulation of 2016 and any secondary legislation based on it. so we will wait for the new scientific advice before we can say in which direction we will go. this implementing act is not only a legal obligation, but also the eu’s delivery on a long—standing commitment – a commitment agreed to by the european parliament – and it is our collective duty to our society, to the future generations, and in particular to those whose livelihood depends on marine resources and on a healthy ocean. i acknowledge that there is a socio—economic impact on the fleets and fishers concerned by these closures. in this context, we advise that member states make good use of the possibilities offered under the european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund to support the sector over the long term.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam commissioner, i wish commissioner sinkevičius a speedy recovery, as he cannot be here today, although i understand that he is due to meet the sector in a few hours. i wish i had done it sooner and done it more often, because fishermen can't be your enemy. it is enough that absolutely all the measures you adopt with the most varied excuses, most of them of an environmental nature, result in harm to fishermen. he hasn't given us any answers. why have they adopted this regulation which prohibits unfair fishing in 87 areas? why, if they are basing themselves on a 2016 regulation, do they approve the implementing act six years later in the worst possible way and at the worst possible time? since ices is due to present a new scientific study shortly, why can't they wait a few weeks longer and issue an implementing act that reflects the reality of the sector and thus avoid the enormous damage they are doing to it? will they put in place a system of aid to offset the damage that their ill-timed decision is causing to fishermen? although the rules do not make a distinction, if the scientific opinion acknowledges that it does not have data on species such as long-liners, why have you included all species without any distinction? why have they not taken into account that two of the four countries concerned voted against in the council and nine abstained? does this result not require at least some reflection? does it not also require reflection that the house has expressed its regret and asked for the withdrawal of the implementing act? do you really think that moving a large number of vessels from one area to another will not lead to greater overfishing and overfishing in those areas? is this how you're going to protect vulnerable marine areas? why don't you just suspend this act and avoid going to court? do you not think that actions like this are causing citizens to lose their trust in the european institutions? commissioner, please respond to these concerns, the fishermen deserve answers at least.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, you have raised this issue, but i would of course like to join in the wishes that commissioner sinkevičius recovers quickly and is with us all in these and other future debates. of course, it's my best wishes for him. i would like to take this opportunity, like the rest of my colleagues, especially the spanish, to express the views of the spanish fisheries sector, for which there is no single strategy from any group here, but we want to make our views heard here in the house, just as we have had this debate in the committee on fisheries. i want to say loud and clear that we do not - i do not - question the deepwater regulation. i'm not questioning that regulation at any point. but it is true that there are certain anomalies in the whole process of implementing the act on vulnerable coastal areas and protection. the sector has felt that way and so have we, many of the members in this house. that is why it was important to bring the debate here and to make the fisheries sector feel identified with the debates we have in the european parliament. what happened six years later? but you know what the worst part is, commissioner? i know that you are not the one who is handling the matter: that the states have been blamed for not having given the data in time, and that is false. i repeat: it is not true that the member states did not provide the data in time. that's no justification for bringing this up six years later. and, as my colleague mr mato has rightly said, why now? knowing that there is going to be a study - i think on 16 december the commission will announce it - why not wait, since we are going to have an updated study? the data collected are from 2011 and are not updated. it is likely that such a study will require, perhaps, enlarging areas or not, or removing areas . so why force this regulation into force on 9 october? there's no need for that. there are no socioeconomic impact studies. and these regulations must be studied for their socioeconomic impact. that's a serious cause. that's why the sector, among other things, has appealed. the spanish government, as you know, is going to appeal against this implementing act, because there are grounds for appealing against it and for going against this implementing act. and let me say - and this sounds like a joke - that the commissioner has said, on behalf of commissioner sinkevičius, that this can be alleviated by the member states with the help of emff. man, i do the damage and now the member states are paying for it and i blame them if they don't. the spanish government will certainly compensate or help the sector, as it always does, but the joke that 'well, the member states will help you with fempa and that's it' is not true. that's not the right thing to do in politics. the spanish government will therefore be able to cope with this, the fisheries sector knows that, but the commission has not been able to cope with it.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i too hope that the commissioner will recover as soon as possible. aurelio, my father, is 91; hilaria, my mother, is 90. i went to college because of his effort, because of the risk he took for decades on a shell, fishing; because of her perseverance working in the harbor. they're enthusiastic about sustainability. they've suffered the effects of overfishing and they love the sea. forget about prejudice, kick the ports and the auction houses, the processing companies... you will find many people like hilaria and aurelio, longliners who do not understand why you are attacking, with this decision on bottom fishing, a sustainable form of fishing. they'll talk to professionals who are distressed because they're either scrapping their boat or changing fishing grounds. they'll turn into misery the quotas they'll have to share with those who work there, that's if they resolve the division without conflict. you will meet fishermen who are concerned about the confusion created by a regulation whose scope was not clear even to you; others will tell you that they do not understand why european vessels are prevented from fishing, subject to strict control and very strict rules, while less sustainable products are imported. therefore, these decisions must be taken after an impact study and on the basis of up-to-date scientific data. so i'm asking you to back off. many of us suspect that their decisions are more influenced by prejudice than by data: they talk, they know, they listen, they visit, they apply the method of proximity. they will find that the sector they seem intent on pursuing prefers to continue working rather than receive cessation aid. and that forces them to work sustainably. they're the first ones interested. that is why they deserve more words of support for their efforts to conserve marine resources than impositions such as this decision which could lead to so many ships being scrapped.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, the deep sea is at once one of the most biodiverse and one of the most fragile ecosystems. one of the richest, because they contain species of fish, molluscs or corals of extraordinary diversity; the european union has a long tradition of supporting the conservation of the environment, and the eu is one of the most fragile, because species mature very late and reproduce very slowly and because habitats take a long time to recover when damaged. deep-sea trawling is undoubtedly the greatest destroyer of this marine biodiversity. it is responsible for a real deforestation underwater. this is intolerable! the oceans are the lungs of mankind. in 2016, our parliament adopted a regulation that prohibits trawling beyond 800 metres deep and, in vulnerable marine ecosystems, beyond 400 metres deep. this regulation entrusts the commission and scientists with the task of mapping these ecosystems. this is what ices, the internationally recognised scientific body, has done on the basis of data supplied by the member states. the sector was involved. the european commission merely adopted these recommendations, as required by the regulation we had voted on. some are citing the economic impacts. we do not deny this, and there is plenty of european money to help shipowners who need it. but landings of deep-sea species account for only 0.4% of total landings in the union. the areas covered by this implementing act represent just 1.6% of european waters in the north-east atlantic. nothing insurmountable, then, when shipowners have had six years to prepare, since the parliament's vote in 2016. i find it shameful that today the epp, the far right and part of renew are seeking to exploit this issue for national political gain. you're playing with facts, you're twisting reality. the oceans are not your plaything, but a shared heritage to be preserved. vulnerable deep-sea ecosystems deserve real protection, as scientists are calling for, as the united nations is calling for, even if it bothers some lobbyists.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the adoption of specific measures to protect fisheries resources and vulnerable seabed ecosystems is sensible and appropriate if they are based on precise, targeted scientific knowledge, which supports policy decisions that are up to the states and impact assessment processes, and which simultaneously integrate the corresponding socioeconomic impacts, in particular for the fisheries sector, which should be involved in the decisions. we are faced with a measure which seems to fail to meet several of these dimensions. four member states are affected by the measure - portugal, spain, france and ireland - which did not have the support of all the countries concerned and which now see measures being adopted in their maritime territory, against their interests, dictated by others, for reasons which demonstrate the need to regain the sovereignty of the member states over their territorial waters and exclusive economic zones. the sector complains of not being involved, of insufficient scientific knowledge and of a decision being taken on a study which the authors themselves acknowledge has limitations, as the commissioner has acknowledged here, with socioeconomic consequences that have not been considered, which could affect thousands of fishermen, especially small-scale coastal and artisanal fisheries, compromising their fishing capacity and incomes. in portugal, the measure will lead to the closure of 15 fishing areas, mainly in the south, and could affect catches of black, black and saithe swordfish, inevitably impacting on the public fish supply. what were these studies and how did they come to these conclusions? what are the expected socioeconomic impacts? how many boats? what arts? how many fishermen are affected? how much fish do you foresee being lost? what compensatory measures are envisaged to mitigate or eliminate the expected impacts? will you agree to suspend this act?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of marine ecosystems, rich in biodiversity, is fundamental for the future of the planet and for the sustainability of our ocean activities. the regulation we are discussing today reflects that ambition. deep-sea trawling is clearly an activity with significant effects on different marine habitats. at the same time, when we take decisions which reflect such an important activity for europe as fishing, it is essential that we do so in the most informed way possible. this is by relying on scientific evidence, the latest data and listening to industry leaders and relevant government authorities. in the present crisis situation, when our economic players are struggling with high energy prices and resource shortages, we must also be careful in implementing this measure. trawling, although affecting only 2% of marine areas below 800 metres, remains an important source of income for a number of coastal industries and communities. i therefore ask that, without renouncing this long-term objective, this activity be brought to an end now, but that the concerns expressed by several member states already listed here be taken into account. so, commissioner, please listen to what both members and members of this community have to say to us.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commission for this implementing act, which the european parliament has been waiting for and asking for for six years, and i would like to say why i support this regulation. to understand what we are talking about, i think it is better to look at a three-dimensional bathymetric map rather than the two-dimensional map you have circulated. between the continental shelf, which is 200 meters away, and the deep sea, the slope is not smooth. there is a steep rocky drop that is a place of very rich biodiversity, because it benefits, you know, from the phenomenon of "upwelling", the upwelling of nutrients from the deep, and this is where we find especially cold water corals. you have to look at these 87 areas that you go to, that you want to protect, like coral reefs in warm seas. these ecosystems are 'hotspots' of biodiversity, but they are also very fragile. hence the urgency of protecting them, and hence of moving fishing to the outskirts of these areas. and it is the fishermen who will be the first to benefit. as the european union negotiates the future treaty on the conservation of biodiversity on the high seas, it is imperative that it sets an example. so i'm aware of the national sensitivities. these measures should be developed in consultation with stakeholders, in particular fishermen. but we also need to support the development of gear for more sustainable fishing. finally, i would like to remind you that there is only one ocean, that it is the common good of all humanity and that it is our individual and collective responsibility to preserve it.
madam president, the deep sea is still a mystery to us. we know more about the surface of the moon than about the bottom of the ocean. yet we are already wrecking this unknown and delicate place with waste and with fishing gear. bottom trawling destroys everything on the sea floor, no matter whether it will be used later or not. and this has to stop. already in 2016, we adopted the deep-sea regulation which called for more protection, and only now the commission is moving forward to truly preserve vulnerable marine life in the deep sea. this is a move we should welcome and not complain about. the commission is simply doing its job to protect marine biodiversity and implementing decisions that we have voted for. it is high time we prioritised nature protection because the biodiversity crisis will not go away if we write legislation that we don’t put into practice. and we also have to stop thinking about nature protection and fisheries as being on opposite sides. nature protection benefits fishers in the long run. we need to move away from fishing methods that have been proven to harm the seabed and delicate marine ecosystems. it is time we invested our resources into more sustainable fishing methods. that is how we get a resilient fisheries sector and how we make space for the new generations that want to be part of this sector. with the implementing act, only 1.16% of eu waters in the north-east atlantic will be newly protected. that is very little given how much the oceans do for us. we need more, not less, protected areas because our lives depend on it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, at the worst possible time and in the worst possible way, the european commission has decided to ban bottom fishing in 87 areas across the atlantic. no, madam, please tell mr sinkevičius that this area is not anecdotal and not to be looked at through a magnifying glass, as was said by his representative at the last fisheries committee. it covers 16,000 square kilometres, or half the area of belgium. the impact of the health crisis is still being felt throughout the sector, our french fishermen are no longer receiving fuel aid, our breton fishermen have been sacrificed as part of the brexit agreements and those in the bay of biscay are suffering a sudden and abrupt reduction of 36% in the quotas for sole, quotas imposed by the commission at the beginning of the year, but you decide to give them back a layer. the commission is basing this arbitrary decision on outdated and contested scientific advice, without concern for the socioeconomic consequences for our fishermen. i can tell you clearly, having met them and heard them, that our fishermen were not listened to, their opinions were not taken into account. and i am not speaking here only as a member of the id, but as a french representative of our fishermen, ladies, and like our spanish or portuguese colleagues who know how to overcome political divisions, we must all defend our fisheries and our fishermen against the european commission, which does not distinguish between artisanal fishing and that of multinationals, nor between sustainable fishing methods and those that are not. in short, the fish that brussels refuses to see fished will be imported, and is already being imported, from countries that do not respect our standards or their own resources. the european commission has arrogated to itself exclusive competence in fisheries and has set itself up as the guardian of the world's oceans, forgetting that the real custodians of this role are our fishermen. i would remind you that they guarantee our food independence, the quality of the products and, of course, the sustainability of the resource. and what are they fighting against today? what are the effects of climate change? the weather? no, no, no, no. i know. they are fighting against the european technocracy, which has decided to finish them off. so, firstly, we are not here to endorse the commission's wishes. secondly, at some point this exclusive competence, which is not in good hands, will have to be called into question. three: this regulation must be abolished. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' intervention)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. madam president, madam, as you say, the european commission alone is responsible. you give the impression that this ban is illegal, but it is legal, since we voted for it. the parliament and the council voted on this regulation on deep-sea fishing in 2016. the commission is merely applying it today, as i said in my speech. parliament passes a law and the commission enforces it. it's just a matter of democracy.
the commission has also launched a 'blue card' intervention for seán kelly. madam president, mr kelly, my question is directed at you, but it could have been directed at all your colleagues who are denouncing this measure by the european commission, because there is one thing i do not understand: all your speeches give the impression that this measure is taken against fishermen. but - and you have pointed out - these ecosystems are sensitive. the idea is to move the fishing action and avoid this part, these areas which are very limited. so my question is: what are the real consequences for fishermen? because, after all, you talk about it as if it were dramatic, but where's the drama? in fact, this measure is also relevant for fishermen.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, in recent weeks, four european countries france, spain, poland and the netherlands have announced their intention to withdraw from the energy charter treaty, the real life insurance of fossil fuels. germany, belgium and slovenia are considering doing the same. italy had already taken the step in 2016. thanks to the initial action of a few scouts, a consensus is emerging in europe against this treaty, which threatens climate action by protecting investments in fossil fuels. the commission's modernisation proposal, on which the council is due to take a decision in a few days' time, is therefore increasingly in the minority. in this context, and in the midst of cop 27 which once again reminds us of the urgency of moving beyond fossils , it is crucial that the eu has a coordinated position and that parliament addresses this crucial issue. that is why, on behalf of our left group in the european parliament, i ask that this debate on the proposal to modernise the treaty be held this week, before the council takes a position, and that a resolution be voted on at the second plenary session in november.
madam president, it is clear that things are moving very fast in iran, but on behalf of my group we would obviously like to have this discussion in november i and not to have it as a substitute for a debate in strasbourg in november ii. yes, therefore, to a debate which is now taking place, but which will have to continue with, possibly, a text and a resolution in strasbourg. we are, of course, agreeing for the time being to debate this essential question in this mini-plenary.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, mr michel, the university of strasbourg will be closed for two more weeks this winter. a school in avignon has locked its doors and will not reopen them. primary schools in slovakia may no longer be able to accommodate children. how did we get here? because of the energy costs and energy bills, our children are deprived of education. in the heart of the european union, the world's leading economic power, our children are deprived of education because our public authorities can no longer pay the energy bills. and instead of tackling the problem at its root, the commission and the council prefer to turn the ball back at each other and we have had another good exercise today. we've been watching the same circus for over a year. the commission shall request the council's opinion. mr michel is still asking mrs von der leyen to act, and summits are being organised, road maps are being adopted, and finally, while all these little people are shirking their responsibilities and wasting time, the bills are still rising. you said, mrs von der leyen, and you are right, that we must learn from the past and accelerate the development of renewable energy. but is this compatible with the taxonomy vote, which aims to support gas and nuclear as green energies, in the context of a rather baroque alliance between france and the countries of eastern europe? in short, the battle has already been lost this year, and we are now crossing our fingers to prevent the same disaster from happening again next year. it is a year since we should have decoupled the price of gas and electricity, taken back public control of the sector, used the common strength of the european market against speculators, massively developed renewable energies and taxed all the profiteers of the crisis. but no, you prefer to discuss it for five more years to avoid acting as if the "all market" does not work and needs to be regulated. moreover, you are doing the same with regard to the european austerity rules, which are supposedly to be abandoned, but which are in fact being maintained despite your promises. the commission, in its reform proposal presented today, is therefore backing the return of sanctions, which will be even more severe for any state which dares to disobey your absurd demands on the deficit and debt. cosmetic flexibilities will not change that: it is the second season of austerity in europe, and it comes at the worst possible time. i also note, mrs von der leyen, that you like sanctions when it comes to austerity, but not when it comes to renewable energy. and in conclusion, madam president, in the face of the failure of this economic model, which is creating disorder and unhappiness, i am thinking today of all those who are watching us and to whom you spoke of a europe that protects. where is she today?
mr president, mr president charles michel, while anxiety at the end of the month and winter anxiety are taking root throughout europe, the latest european summit seems to ignore the urgency of the situation. no measures have been taken to support our businesses and families in the face of an unprecedented energy crisis. in france, so far, and despite the promises of unfulfilled reforms, president macron has submitted to the absurd rules of the european electricity market - these european rules, which lead to indexing the prices of electricity to gas, have put us at the mercy of the speculative explosion of prices following the war in ukraine. france, which derives no benefit from the operation of this prison, is getting by, albeit weakened, thanks to its nuclear production. we can easily say that without this european market we would have been partly protected from the major geopolitical movements in the world. it is therefore urgent to get out of it, or, failing that, to introduce derogations on the model of those obtained by portugal and spain, which thus have electricity prices on average three times lower than ours. in the long term, the tax leverage must be used by lowering the vat on energy, as germany or poland have done. unfortunately, president macron is stubbornly refusing to do so. the risk of europe being driven towards industrial desertification, with a loss of jobs and know-how, is real in the coming months. act now, because by the time the factories close, it will be too late.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is once again responding to the energy crisis with a price cap on gas, a price corridor, the joint purchase of natural gas from our partners. the heads of state have confirmed the measures that my political group, renew, had called for. so yes, since the beginning of the crisis, europe has been moving forward and europe is here. but, it must be said, the temptations to retreat are also there. and we must respond with de facto solidarity and demonstrate once again that europe stands with the europeans. it was the case during the health crisis, it must be the case again in the face of the energy crisis, and we must accelerate action to protect europeans. i am thinking of the energy shield, the reform of the electricity market or the strengthening of the mechanism (name unheard). so, mr. president, mr. vice president, the ball is in your court. the expectations are high, and you will always find the european parliament at your side to build that europe which protects. but beyond these measures, to meet the challenges we face in the immediate future, we must also be clear-sighted. it is our independence and strategic autonomy that is at stake. president von der leyen said this in her state of the union address, and my group and i proposed it at the beginning of this year: we need a real european fund dedicated to the strategic autonomy of our union, a fund to break the dependence on fossil fuels, to guarantee our food security, to invest in rare materials and in the technologies of tomorrow, and to support key sectors such as defence, cyber security and cyberspace. then let's not wait any longer! we don't have that luxury. as president von der leyen said, this may be the last warning before it is too late. on this question of strategic autonomy, mr vice-president, we expect concrete progress, far beyond the announcements.
mr president, mr vice-president, after the last european council we are moving in the right direction to overcome the energy crisis, along the lines that the spanish government has been calling for. but now we need to speed up and concretise the measures on social protection. our citizens cannot be forced to go hungry or cold and our businesses cannot go into debt or close down because of rising costs. that is why the burdens of this crisis must be shared fairly. we cannot demand more sacrifice from workers when some big companies are making exorbitant profits. we have to record them. we are already doing this in spain and we are asking for it to be done in europe too. on the other hand, we must put a limit on the price of gas and reform the energy market, dissociating gas prices from electricity prices and promoting joint purchasing, energy interconnections and green energy corridors, such as the one that will link the iberian peninsula with france.
mr president, dear colleagues, non—democratic regimes including russia, iran and the chinese communist party continue to seek to weaken and divide our societies. their use of hybrid threats, including disinformation, cyber or espionage, shows a wider context of operations aiming against us. the shocking revelation about the illegal chinese police stations operating across 16 eu member states show that we are not only lacking an effective response, but even close our eyes to serious threats. i welcome the council’s condemnation of attacks on critical infrastructure and measures to ensure their resilience. at the same time, we must see these attacks in a wider context of widespread hybrid warfare. we need a holistic approach, but above all a strong political will, to ensure that we address these grave challenges to our democracies. in this context, allow me to also welcome the principle decision of this house to have a debate and condemn the barbaric decision of the iranian parliament to execute about 15 000 protesters.
mr president, we are all aware in this european parliament that the council is faced with very difficult decisions in responding to the crisis in energy supply and the rising cost of energy to businesses and households. however, this cannot make us forget or neglect the need, arising from the abrupt breakdown of all forms of cooperation with russia, to support sectors which depend not only on energy supplies but also on connectivity through ports and airports, as is clearly the case with sectors which depend on tourism. nor can it make us forget the need for us, by maintaining unity in not accepting travel documents issued in the occupied territories, to provide the humanitarian protection and asylum that children and vulnerable people from these occupied territories may be seeking.
mr president, someone said that this was a lost opportunity. i would like to ask you, madam vice-president of the commission, to state very clearly when all these measures will come into force. when will the bills start coming down? a month from now? six months from now? a year from now? people are expecting it today. and the second thing is, it seems that this trend, this price increase, is seen in the food sector, in the food supply chain. enough speculation in the food trade. of course, by supplying the means of production, especially fertilisers. i therefore propose that you put this on the agenda, start looking at, applying similar measures in the food chain, so that this is not another missed opportunity.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, listening to today's debate, i wonder what a citizen would understand if he had listened to the debate. the president of the council blames the commission for not coming up with legislative proposals. has the board learned now that winter is coming in three weeks? why didn't he send the nine measures the president was talking about sooner? on the other hand, the commission president, very strangely, says that we are very prepared for the winter, that they have reduced the price of gas by two thirds, but nothing has happened to the bills. mr vice-president of the commission, can we go home and say something concrete about this critical situation? there are citizens, there are smes, there are small and medium-sized businesses that are closing their doors, and citizens are freezing, hospitals are freezing, children are freezing. what do we say at home? let's be serious and give the citizens concrete measures and answers.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank all of you for your interventions, which very clearly reflected the sense of urgency and worries of citizens you represent and what citizens feel about energy supplies, the cost of living crisis and the war in ukraine. indeed, as mr mureșan and madam garcía pérez, but also many others underlined, we are going through an unprecedented, multi-layered crisis. it’s tough on our people. it’s tough on our businesses and it’s tough on our industry. but it is also very important to underscore that we’ve been working very hard to address all the challenges honourable members highlighted in this debate. we filled our gas storages. we saved a lot of energy this year and we managed to get the prices of gas down. on top of that, we are learning fast from this crisis. we are already now working for the next winter to make sure that we would act in solidarity and unity and that we would proceed, as it was underlined by many – the last of the speakers referring to it was mr nica – that we would make sure that we would use our economic power, our economic weight, and we will purchase the part of our gas supplies together through the european energy platform. today we propose the ways to further accelerate the build-up of renewables – exactly what madam reintke was calling for – so we can leapfrog and make sure that more and more energy that we will use in europe will not only be clean, but we will be getting it from our genuinely indigenous european sources, because wind and solar is our energy. i would like to reassure all the honourable members, madam šojdrová, mr moreno sánchez and others, that we work very hard on different options which are being discussed by the european council, including new electricity market design, where we want to decouple gas from electricity pricing. this morning we adopted a communication on fertilisers, and in the same way we are assessing all the options available to us to get a grip over current energy prices. several of you been calling on all of us to learn from the last crisis, especially from the financial one. i just would like to inform you that we did. after the covid-19 crisis, thanks to your help and your insistence, we introduced the next generation eu mechanism to overcome potential problems with financial liquidity, but also to modernise our economies and to modernise our member states. as mr ropė was calling for, we are also working very hard – and you will be debating it today and tomorrow, the trilogues will start – on a very important measure, repowereu, which would help us to direct more financial resources to help vulnerable households, to help smes and to create more fiscal space for our member states to provide necessary state aid for energy—intensive industry. another lesson learned is reflected in our communication today for a reformed eu economic governance framework, which we debated and adopted this morning, and i’m sure that you will have in-depth discussions about it with my colleagues, vice-president dombrovskis and commissioner gentiloni. you will recall that president von der leyen was calling for both a sense of urgency and strategic foresight. indeed, based on strategic foresight, we are undertaking very tangible, concrete steps to avoid our dependency on the supply of critical raw materials from china and to further strengthen open strategic autonomy of the european union. mr president, allow me to conclude on the remarks made by mr pedro marques, because he was rightly highlighting the important aspects of our assistance to ukraine. since the start of the russian invasion of ukraine, we stood by ukraine. i was here with you when we had this very emotional address by president zelenskiy via video link, when he was talking to all of us. but we not only stood by ukraine, we’ve been helping them in a very concrete manner by almost eur 20 billion in micro-financial assistance, by more than eur 3 billion if it comes to the supply of weaponry – and we did it despite the very difficult current economic circumstances. but to make sure that we would bring additional clarity, additional predictability to ukraine and ukrainians, we adopted today the proposal to have regular tranches. we would help ukraine throughout the next year in the realm of eur 18.8 billion. not only that, we are appealing to other international donors to match our example, to help them in the same way as we europeans do, because this is what the ukrainian people need to defend their country. mr president, thank you very much for giving me the floor. i would like to thank all the honourable members for stressing how important and how urgent all the steps we are undertaking in the field of tackling the current crisis are.
the debate is closed.
we now move on to the next item on the agenda: the commission statement on the results of the modernisation of the energy charter treaty (2022/2934 (rsp)). the debate will be a group-speaking round, so there will be no 'blue card' questions or 'catch the eye' speeches.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the modernisation of the energy charter treaty pursues the goal of enhancing energy security, facilitating diversification of investments into renewable energy sources. it also provides for an international platform for cooperation in the energy sector with key partners in central asia, the balkans, as well as important energy partners such as turkey, japan and ukraine. this is of particular importance today given the fragile geopolitical situation impacting the energy sector. the modernisation also pursues the reform of the investment protection system contained in the old treaty. under the mandate of the member states, we initiated and successfully led other contracting parties to agree on substantial modernisation. we achieved all key eu objectives, notably the new energy charter treaty is fully in line with the energy transition and climate goals. we have aligned the ect with our environmental objectives by incorporating them in a modernised ect. the modernised ect is the first multilateral investment agreement which fully incorporates the paris agreement as objective. the modernised ect is also the fastest route towards ending the protection of investments in fossil fuels in the eu. fossil fuel carve-out for new investments kicks in already in august next year. moreover, the modernised ect also tackles in a definitive manner any risk of intra—eu investor state dispute settlement claims – solving one of the most sensitive problems for member states, which is also a concern for the european parliament. the modernised ect also includes an explicit clause that preserves the right of states to regulate. this fully safeguards the eu’s ability to develop our climate policies. there will be no possibility to interpret the agreement in conflict with our climate and green transition objectives. in short, the modernised ect leaves the eu and the member states in a much better position compared to the status quo or withdrawal. withdrawing from the ect would mean activating the sunset clause, thus applying the current unreformed ect rules for another 20 years. this means that until at least 2044, the sunset clause would leave us exposed to possible claims by investors also in fossil fuels under the old ect. we can look at italy, which faced seven arbitration cases since its withdrawal in 2015. so let’s also be clear there is no viable option of neutralising the sunset clause, which would shield the eu and member states from potential claims from investors in all other contracting parties. on this basis, the commission has made a proposal to the council with a view to adopt the eu position on the modernisation ahead of the charter conference. the political decision is now with the council and member states.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, colleagues, in my view the question we should be asking ourselves is if we were to leave, when should we do it? we have three options ahead of us: withdrawing now; modernising and staying in the treaty; or withdrawing after the modernisation of the treaty. if we withdraw from the ect now, taking into account that the eu is the leading force behind the modernisation process, the ect will not be modernised. this implies that eu investments would be subject to old isds rules for 20 years. member states’ existing investments in fossil fuels will remain under the ect’s protection system for 20 years. even if we have an inter se agreement among member states, intra—eu cases under the ect could continue to be legally brought. what would be the benefits of a modernised ect? it explicitly forbids intra-eu disputes. this is, i think, the safest legal way to ensure that arbitrators cannot continue to allow intra-eu disputes. it explicitly protects our right to regulate and provides for the space to adopt ambitious climate policies. the modernised ect is aligned with the paris agreement. it is the first ever investment agreement to end the protection of fossil fuels. if the ect conference approves the modernisation on 22 november, then by 15 august 2023 all new investments in fossil fuels will no longer be protected under the ect. for existing investment in fossil fuels there is a ten—year phase—out. this means the eu would stop protecting all fossil fuel investments as soon as 2032. the modernised treaty would also incentivise european renewable energy companies to invest in other contracting parties’ territories. if we live under a modernised ect, new and existing fossil fuel investment will not be protected during the 20—year sunset clause. the sunset clause would in reality will be down to ten years. intra—eu cases will still be forbidden and green investments will remain protected. we should take, in my view, all the necessary steps to modernise the ect, and the best way is modernising and coming back to the question of leaving when the modernised treaty is in place.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to say that the modernised text of the energy charter treaty unfortunately does not meet the climate ambitions of my political group, the socialists and democrats, nor the demands of this parliament, nor the internationally agreed emission targets. the agreement certainly includes improvements, and i would like to thank the commission for its work and efforts. but we don't think that's enough. the timeframe for limiting, eliminating the protection of fossil fuels is still too long. and the old model of private arbitration, investor-state dispute settlement, which this parliament has repeatedly opposed, remains unchanged in any significant way. and i want to remind you that this model has generated at least 135 lawsuits and has forced governments to pay out over 50 billion dollars to private investors. for these reasons, the netherlands, spain, france and poland have already announced that they will withdraw from the modernisation of the treaty, as italy has already done; and other countries are going to follow suit. i therefore call on this parliament to adopt a resolution which, while pointing out the shortcomings of the text, is consistent and coherent with this parliament's position and which calls for the need to start a process towards a coordinated withdrawal of the european union from the treaty without jeopardizing the interests of the rest of the member states.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr vice-president, italy, spain, poland, but also the netherlands and france: the leaders of my political family have understood, and they must be joined by the other member states. let us all assume our responsibilities in this house: let us demand a coordinated exit from the energy charter treaty. companies investing in fossil fuels may be demanding billions from our member states, while we are making the responsible choice of climate neutrality. the conference to endorse modernisation is approaching and we note with regret that the old dispute settlement system, which parliament is vehemently opposed to, still exists. there is always the long-term incompatibility with the paris agreement. there is still this clause, and parliament has voted in favour of withdrawal if the conditions are not met. and clearly, the account is not there. do we want a deadlock situation where, in the absence of a majority in the council and parliament, the commission has no way out? do we want to be stuck in an anachronistic treaty? no, you can't! and our credibility is at stake! europe is credible when it advocates coherence, and there is no coherence between our commitments under the paris agreement and the constraints of modernised or not modernised treaties. so let us act as europeans, as we have done on all other fronts, and let us all get out of this treaty together.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, once again, i would like to celebrate a victory in this house. our two years of fighting, sometimes alone with the ngos, are paying the price for the energy charter treaty. european states - france, the netherlands, spain, and others - announce their exit one after another, because this treaty is an anti-ecological heresy that protects the interests of polluting multinational corporations and prevents states from taking action on climate. we just had the hottest october in human history, but 53 states are still tied to this fossil fuel life insurance. how is it still possible that in 2022 the multinational gas and coal companies can get billions of euros in compensation, when states put in place green policies? while this treaty is being attacked from all sides, only your commission, mr dombrovskis, is still defending it, pushing through a so-called reform that will not change anything about the problem. the end of this treaty must be sounded, and it is up to the commission and the states to hasten its final collapse by finally accepting a collective withdrawal.
mr president, commissioners, some news from france: at the end of september, the mayor of neuilly-sur-marne, zartoshte bakhtiari, warned that his municipality would have to pay 32 times the price of its electricity bills. at the end of october, the industrial group safran decided to suspend the setting up of a plant in lyon and perhaps to turn to the united states. a few days ago, the arcelor group closed one of its blast furnaces. we now see that the price of electricity in europe is three times as high as in the united states or china. we must act urgently if we do not want our continent to be the victim of industrial desertification, technological breakdown, ever greater commercial dependence and, of course, immense social distress. to do this, two actions must be taken at the front. the first is to increase energy production in europe by all means. as deputy rapporteur on the repowereu plan, i tabled an amendment - i hope we will adopt it together tomorrow - to include nuclear energy, which we must be able to rely on. the second step, of course, is to challenge the dysfunctional rules of the european market now and to ensure that we get out of this very dangerous spiral.
madam president, europe is facing a crisis whose economic, social, geopolitical and climatic consequences we are not yet able to measure. but we already understand the urgency of having a stable, decarbonised energy system. with this financial support plan, i am pleased that the commission is supporting not only renewables but also - finally! - other decarbonised and non-fossil energy sources, such as decarbonised hydrogen, and therefore nuclear energy. i would like to remind you, however, that these support mechanisms, which we are creating to reduce energy dependence on outside europe, must first of all help to produce in europe, and european production must of course be given priority over imports. you can count on us to be vigilant in this regard.
madam president, commissioner, the commission's communication is very welcome, even though i would have preferred a text that articulated a real strategy at european level. i would also like to take this opportunity to ask the commission to consider the establishment of such a european strategy. the problem of fertilisers will not be solved by imports, but by industrial sovereignty, which must be strengthened in our union, with incentives for innovation, to develop fertilisers which are not dependent on fossil fuels. a european strategy should also be undertaken to increase protein production. they are less fertiliser-intensive, which would at the same time reduce europe's dependence on imported animal feed products. france has put in place incentives to stimulate protein production as part of its national strategic plan. i think we need a concerted initiative at european level. finally, i would like to stress the need to promote varietal change and investment in precision agriculture, to better balance the use of fertilisers and to accelerate the introduction of new genomic techniques in the european union.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the outcome of the trialogue, which i consider to be a balanced one, and i congratulate all the actors involved in the negotiations. the directive on the reporting of sustainability-related information by undertakings aims to establish a transparent mechanism that contributes to building an economy in the interest of citizens, with all that this means, from all points of view. but during the trialogue negotiations, we started from the indisputable premise that we do not want to create excessive bureaucracy for companies and make their work more difficult. we have therefore opted for non-listed smes to report on a voluntary basis and for listed smes to report for the first time in 2028, using obviously simplified reporting standards. in order to ensure a level playing field, provisions have also been introduced requiring sustainability reporting by subsidiaries or branches in the european union of companies based outside the european union. i considered that the reporting requirements should be both proportionate to the scope and, of course, to the objectives of this directive. as regards risk sectors, it should be noted that the information must be linked to the extent of the risks, taking into account that they may be higher for some sectors than for others. however, i would draw the european commission's attention to not creating excessive red tape for smes through delegated acts, as they are already facing a difficult economic situation due to the war and the energy crisis.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner and rapporteur durand, congratulations on your work. i would agree with mr biedroń and ms wolters that sustainability goes beyond merely green issues and environmental issues. we talk about tackling greenwashing, but we could be talking about tackling esg—washing. whatever we call it, what it means is companies talking a good game and failing to deliver. at best, this is mis—selling of products and services by companies. at worst, it’s fraud. and that’s why regulators are getting tough, and that’s why this directive is actually revolutionary, and it’s why 50 police officers went into dsw, a subsidiary of deutsche bank, earlier this year. it’s why a usd 1.5 million fine was applied to bny mellon by the security and exchanges commission. i welcome the clarity, the strictness and the enforceability of this and i would remind the commission, as we prepare the standards that are going to be applied, that there is already an internationally agreed framework for those standards, which is the sustainable development goals. and i would also agree with ms wolters that it’s not just about companies reporting better, but acting better. and that’s why it needs to go here with a corporate sustainability due diligence directive.
for the greens/efa group madam president, faults big enough to carry a tank of diesel through: these are the words used by antonio guterres to describe the wide gaps between corporate climate commitments and their actions. today we are adopting european legislation on the reporting requirements for companies trading in our markets. and that is essential. how can europe decently claim to defend human rights, social rights, trade union rights and the rights of the living, if it does not have solid tools to regulate economic activity? the laws of economics are not superior to the laws of nature or to the values that constitute humanity. but i am back to the toxic cover-ups denounced by antonio guterres. we found out last week that total, the 19th largest polluter in the world, with huge profits, has reportedly understated its greenhouse gas emissions. this 'total gate', because it is one, highlights two things: firstly that we must democratically develop the methods by which these companies calculate and present their emissions, but also that we have a lot of work to do, a lot, to make sure that the rules we develop, the values we claim to uphold are finally respected. we cannot let the multinationals dictate the laws of the world. let us instead take our full part in the battle to civilize the economy. the hard part is ahead of us.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, 1.6 billion tonnes of co2: this is total's total greenhouse gas emissions in one year. but total has only publicly declared a quarter of them. the oil companies lie about global warming the way the cigarette vendors lied yesterday about our health and the way the clothing brands lie about forced labor. those lies have lasted too long. so i welcome the improvement of the directive on the publication of environmental and social information by companies, but we are demanding more than words: we are demanding action. this is the whole point of the duty of vigilance directive, and the commission's proposal falls far short in this respect. as such, we will have to continue the work we have already started, because it concerns only a handful of companies, replaces the fight against human rights violations with a contractual passphrase and does not guarantee victims real access to justice. the commissioner, thierry breton, has apparently become the effective relay of the lobbies. it is therefore our responsibility - as we have done with this text - to listen to citizens, workers and environmentalists, so that the impunity of multinationals finally ends. it was only the first step. the second one is coming.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this directive is an important step towards an ambitious public corporate information system, which provides consumers and investors with all the data on the impact of corporate activity on the environment, human rights, workers' rights, the rights of indigenous peoples and the governance system of all developing countries. it is a way of ensuring that europe's big businesses act in accordance with the values and principles of the european union, those values which the union proclaims as a geopolitical bloc, namely democracy, human rights, the fight against climate change, the development of the countries of the global south, because it is of little value that our discourse and our policies are inspired by these principles if the practices of our companies, when they operate in the rest of the world, openly contradict them. achieving these objectives requires not only the commitment of public administrations but also, and crucially, that of the private sector. in fact, consumers and investors can be a formidable engine of change towards a business model that overcomes the most blatant injustices of global capitalism and this directive clearly helps to activate this engine.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. sustainability reporting is useful not only for the climate and the environment, but also from the perspective of companies that can demonstrate that they are sustainable. but my stomach aches are caused by two things. first, our smes are the ones that are really overwhelmed right now: taxonomy, deforestation regulation, sustainability reporting, supply chain law. all these well-intentioned proposals bring with them new bureaucratic requirements. companies need to document, they need to prove, they need to document, they need to inform, and this is especially true at a time when every business is being challenged by rising energy prices, inflation, supply chain bottlenecks and skills shortages. it's really almost impossible for companies to do that. i therefore urge the commission, madam commissioner, to take the principle of proportionality seriously in the standards now being developed for sustainability reporting and not to place a disproportionate burden on small and mediumsized enterprises. the reporting obligations of a mediumsized enterprise cannot be equated with those of a large company.
the commission has already done so. corporate sustainability reporting is of course a key concern right now in times of climate crisis and social inequality. we need to ensure that transparency and compliance with all human and environmental obligations are a core responsibility of every company, especially from the perspective of the employees along the often opaque, long supply chains around the world. and we have considerably improved the transparency of this with the present proposal. but there's more to it than that. the negotiations on corporate responsibility along the supply chains themselves are just beginning. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not used in the same way as the information provided by the member states. companies that accept child labour or pollution - whether as subcontractors or suppliers - must finally be held accountable.
the commission has already done so. markets are not god-given, but they are legal constructs which we as legislators can shape, but also reshape. markets are not only for maximising profits, but above all for the people on them - as entrepreneurs, as workers, as consumers worldwide. investors play a particularly important role in shaping markets. you have the money that others need. they are a leverage that we can and must take responsibility for in achieving human rights, protecting the environment and combating climate change. money should be put to good use. that's why taxonomy, that's why disclosure requirements for financial services providers, that's why we're now reporting on corporate sustainability so that investors know where they can safely invest so that the return is sustainable. however, disclosure is not enough. we must act. so we need to have a duty of action in eu supply chain law, in addition to disclosure, for financial companies, and not just before they make an investment.
madam president, please. putting additional burdens on european companies is, in my judgment, not advisable in peacetime, but in wartime, after a pandemic and on the verge of another crisis, when many are struggling to stay afloat, it is a huge mistake. this is particularly true for smes. let's see what it would mean if the plan came to fruition. let's say joe's small digital development business wants to grow, and he's already going public to make his plans happen. it's 2028, and europe is still burning up energy prices, inflation - read the imf forecast - and joe is suddenly faced with the task of preparing an annual report on how his company is contributing to climate change, marine resources and biodiversity. it must report on its actions against violence and harassment at work, on its contribution to diversity, but also on what it is doing to respect the un declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples. joe's packing up and moving his headquarters to asia. he's not interested in the european market anymore. are you sure this is what you want, my fellow members?
member of the commission. – madam president, this has been a really interesting debate. and i have to say that, despite some criticism, i think there’s a shared view across all of the groups that what we’re doing is not only important, but hugely significant. and i want to thank you for the strength of the presentations this evening. maybe a point on smes, because ms niebler always does speak for smes, and we share that concern that smes should not be burdened with the same standards as larger companies. so we will be proportionate and there is a time difference as to when listed smes will have to report. we will be very vigilant when we get from efrag their standards to pay attention to this proportionality and we will do that before adopting the delegated act that will put these in place. maybe a key point that few of us reference, but i think is hugely important, is that the information provided will have to be verified. and this is very significant because it does mean that we will not only look at the figures that companies produce in terms of profitability, etc.; we will be looking at the information around sustainability. both sets of information will have to be verified and that will give confidence to investors and to companies about the information. indeed, i have always regarded the taxonomy, for example, as a management plan for companies because those companies with an eye to the future know that sustainability is the only path to be on. and it’s not always clear how you get there. and i think that together the parliament, council and commission have put in place the tools to allow companies that want to be there for the long term to do the right thing and invest in a more sustainable future. time is not on our side, so we do need to act fast. the crisis won’t wait 10 years for us to hang around. and when efrag submits its first set of standards in the coming weeks, we will adopt those standards by the middle of next year. and as i say, we will be proportionate around the sme question. i do not share the pessimism of our colleague in the back, madam – i hope i pronounce your name right, yes, we’re waving at each other. i do not regard this as a cardinal error. i think it would be a cardinal error if the commission and this parliament and council ignored the fact that we need sustainability information, that our companies want it, our citizens are demanding it. and i will end on an upbeat note. our rapporteur is somewhere in the room, i know, but others refer to his commitment and passion and energy, and i want to applaud that. i think that he managed to bring you together as colleagues in a very constructive way, and i hope that i and my colleagues in the commission – and i know we did – played our part as well. and let’s move forward, making sure that this is implemented in a proportionate way for the betterment of our companies and our citizens.
the rapporteur. madam president, i was thinking again when i heard the fact that you should not say too much, etc., i thought of a sentence by the nobel prize winner for literature, albert camus, who said that to name an object wrongly is to add to the misery of this world. i believe that the text you have proposed to us, the text we are voting on today, the text which the council has approved, is not a cardinal error. it is an attempt to alleviate, in part, the misery of the world. we have been considering this from the outset, we have been asking from the outset that efrag should make standards which are specific to certain specific sectors themselves. let's leave the corporations alone for the rest! smes are not in the crosshairs, but leave the companies alone! so that they only give the information that is needed. yes, the world is changing, yes, the economy has changed, yes the consumer ratio, the ratio of young people, now, in business schools, in law schools or elsewhere, this world has evolved. we must ensure that legislation evolves accordingly. you have to do it smart. we must do so in accordance with our values and principles. that's what we tried to do. i heard earlier that perhaps this was not enough, that perhaps this was a start, but i think a start is already much better than nothing, and i think that europe is showing the whole world that it is indeed possible to ensure that finance, in the narrow sense of the term, does not govern the whole world economy.
thank you, mr durand, for your work. the debate on the corporate sustainability reporting directive is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow.
the next item is the joint debate on:– the report by billy kelleher, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on digital operational resilience for the financial sector and amending regulations (ec) no 1060/2009, (eu) no 648/2012, (eu) no 600/2014 and (eu) no 909/2014 (com(2020)0595 – c9-0304/2020 – 2020/0266(cod)) (a9—0341/2021), and– the report by mikuláš peksa, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directives 2006/43/ec, 2009/65/ec, 2009/138/eu, 2011/61/eu, eu/2013/36, 2014/65/eu, (eu) 2015/2366 and eu/2016/2341 (com(2020)0596 – c9-0303/2020 – 2020/0268(cod)) (a9-0340/2021).
member of the commission. – madam president, colleagues, it’s a pleasure to be here for the conclusion of the work on this digital operational resilience act, or dora. my thanks to the honourable members of the econ committee for their work. of course, in particular, our thanks go to the two rapporteurs – billy kelleher, for the dora regulation, and you’ve just heard from the rapporteur on the dora directive, mikuláš peksa – and all of the shadow rapporteurs. dora is really a cornerstone of our work on digital finance in the european union, making sure that we support innovation and do it in a safe way. this work began just over two years ago and in fact it’s become much more urgent as the digitalisation of the financial sector continues apace. financial institutions are more and more dependent on technology. more and more people and businesses are managing their finances online. so protecting the financial system from cyberattacks and cyber—fraud is vital. so, when i look at the objectives, dora aims to strengthen the overall digital operational resilience of all firms in the eu financial sector. it creates a regulatory framework on digital operational resilience for all financial companies. so these companies will need to make sure they can withstand, respond to and recover from all types of ict-related disruptions and threats. dora requires financial entities to set up a management process to monitor, classify and report major ict-related incidents. financial entities will need to regularly test their risk-management capabilities to ensure that they can identify weaknesses and address problems. finally, dora will, for the first time, give financial supervisors direct oversight over ict providers that are critical to the eu financial system. i welcome the amendments to the proposal by the european parliament steered by the honourable members i’ve mentioned. you strengthen proportionality in dora. you have introduced additional flexibility for financial entities in terms of resilience testing and you have provided for a coordinated approach to oversight through the joint oversight network. given the rapid digitalisation of our financial system, strengthening its operational resilience is absolutely essential. president, honourable members, i look forward to the rest of our discussion this evening.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, two years of work are being concluded, and thanks go to our rapporteur, mr kelleher. dora will now set common rules for cybersecurity protocols and for good behaviour for all financial services in the eu. it aims to ensure that all companies which manage our finances have the tools by which to withstand all types of ict-related disruptions and operational threats. for the financial sector, cyber—risks are being countered by performance and procedural requirements, and not only, as up to now, by regulatory guidelines defining how much funds to attach to cybersecurity. the latter is a moving target. as complex cyber—threats develop, new risks will emerge. as new technologies become part of the financial system, new opportunities will emerge as well. dora should create a common market in financial security with harmonised ict risk-management tools, testing procedures and testing reporting methods. from the beginning, proportionality was essential to our approach, clarifying the definitions of ict incidents and critical functions to avoid adding unnecessary heaviness. dora will now carry several challenges. until now, big data and the cloud have been regulated from a data perspective. they will henceforth be strictly treated as extensions of financial entities if they provide critical services. banks and financial services rely, in fact, on a few cloud service providers. the oversight over the latter must be rigorous. when the structure of the subsidiary changes, cloud providers will have to inform the supervisory authority. this ensures that dora is enforced without restriction on geographical location. still, while we must deploy dora with maximum commitment, european financial institutions need to be able to access all possible new technologies available globally as well as outside european borders. clearly, this constitutes – and will constitute – a considerable new workload for supervisors. regarding the input impact of dora on smes, although proportionality is embedded in dora, in reality smes interfacing with banks and financial services could need stringent levels of cybersecurity compliance as they might otherwise pose a risk. the greatest care must be taken in this measure to avoid crippling smes.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, after the vote on the regulation on cryptocurrencies and the one to facilitate the development of the blockchain, today we are taking another step towards europe's digital sovereignty. with this new regulation on the digital operational resilience of the financial sector, we are completing the digital finance package, and it was time to ensure the cyber resilience of our financial ecosystem. this new framework for digital finance will both protect european investors and prepare financial sector companies for cyber attacks. europe's capacity for innovation and its strategic autonomy are at stake here. cyberattacks can shake our democracy and they also affect our financial system, yet they are at the heart of our societies. by strengthening banks' cyber resilience, we are enabling them to no longer be dependent on it vendors. while we voted for the digital markets regulation to limit the anti-competitive behaviour of the digital giants, we are now reducing the banks' dependence on these big tech companies.
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, just fifty years ago, a very simple pattern appeared on screens all over the world: two vertical bars and a pixel moving between them. the concept of this game - it was called pong - was very simple: to return the ball and score as many points as possible against your opponent. this simple game marked the beginning of the video game revolution. fifty years later, video games have become a major industry in europe, worth €23 billion and employing almost 100 000 people. video games are the fastest growing sector of our cultural and creative industries, the only one to have experienced growth during the covid-19 period. video games have become a cultural staple for one in two europeans and a full-time occupation for professionals in electronic sports. however, we still do not have a european vision for this sector. we, the european parliament, are therefore today formally calling for a european strategy for this sector, a strategy to promote an industry which has constantly been reinventing itself artistically. because, yes, video games are an art, and a total art. he develops unique narratives, often based on our european history. he's got graphic designers, talented musicians. it is also a mine of technological innovation. from virtual reality to the architecture of the metaverse, it is part of our digital sovereignty. thousands of successful video games are developed each year by european companies and they are very successful internationally. the witcher, assassin's creed, a plague tale, minecraft: we can do more to make our gems known to the world, with why not? the creation of a european video game label this is a recommendation. we also need to have a strategy to protect. protect our games, studios, talents and publishers by encouraging european investment. many of our companies, like many in the cultural and creative sector, have high growth potential, but are the target of foreign acquisitions, due to the lack of european investors. i welcome the media invest plan announced by the european commission, but, i repeat, there is urgency: in the period of consolidation we are going through, our video games are strategic cultural assets, and they must remain in the european fold. we also need a strategy for education, because video games are a great medium, which, when combined with educational programmes, facilitates learning at any age, for young and old alike. it gives a taste for scientific knowledge, but also for reading. the european union needs a european strategy for video games, but it should also have a common approach to esports, because esports is a discipline in its own right, unlike any other. it brings together players with a common passion: playing the video game in competition. more than in any other discipline, europe transcends borders. it is therefore logical that the union should embrace this phenomenon by promoting our european values, by giving women a fair place, by providing clear rules on the status and visas of professionals. i am particularly pleased to see that world competitions are planned for 2023 on our continent. but we can do even better, by emphasising the role of cities and regions in developing a new leisure offer for more and more players and thereby increasing their attractiveness. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the chairman of the cult committee for her support and the fictitious rapporteurs for their work. video games and esports have important economic and societal challenges. with this report, we are therefore taking the first step towards a genuine european approach to the sector.
mr president, i agree with my predecessors that this is indeed a very progressive field, which brings together a whole range of sectors and also links up knowledge, links up skills, and no doubt also creative people, whether they are computer programmers or animators, music writers or sound writers. these are all, i think, very important aspects of this work. and my colleagues are right to talk about the importance of this sector. europe is undoubtedly at the forefront of this sector too and it is important that it feels the support that the commissioner has also spoken about, whether it is creative europe or the relevant programmes, the media plus programme. i would like to point out two problematic issues, and that is the legal anchoring of the protection of these results of creative intellectual activity and the whole procedures of the various teams that work on these video games. secondly, how not to create barriers in the internal market to the dissemination of these works and, of course, how to deal with the dependence on these games that may arise. we have to admit that, too. of course, playing is not bad, but too much playing is not the happiest solution.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank parliament once again for taking up this matter and laurence farreng for bringing it up. thank you for the work that has resulted. the issue of the video game ecosystem is, as we've all just said, in our own words, clearly important. firstly, as a source of innovation in europe, because yes, this is a reality, european talent in this field is recognised worldwide. we must therefore ensure that we organise an environment which supports this european centre of excellence and protects the sovereignty that surrounds it and thus our european seeds. my aim is, of course, to put this ambition at the heart of the european approach, particularly on the metaverse, since, as you know, we are working on it in the commission as part of an extended working group. i therefore hope, of course, that parliament will be fully involved in this, and i want to repeat it here - it is obvious, but it is often good to recall the obvious. so, as i said in the introduction, the commission clearly welcomes and will fully support this initiative. we are already working through the creative europe programme, but of course our action cannot be limited to funding. we must look at the industrial, technological, expert, skills (educational, cultural, health) and export issues, because this is also a sector that exports a lot for us outside europe. so i would like to say again in conclusion that the commission is ready to work hand in hand with the cult committee and parliament to consolidate this ecosystem of excellence for europe.
reporting for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection the prospects for the sector are of interest in all our member states and throughout the european union. i would like to conclude by saying a few words about the major challenges facing the sector. some of my colleagues have spoken about it. we have the issue of feminization, which is a key element in video games, since the industry is 50 percent female, but only employs 22 percent of women. so we have to do better, no doubt. we must ensure that women have career opportunities in this sector, but also a digital environment free of harassment and respectful of the values of the union and i know that today our european union has the instruments to do this: we have just had a debate, in particular in france, on the harassment of streamer women, and we are better equipped to fight against this phenomenon. prevention, on the other hand, must remain at the heart of our priorities to ensure that video games remain fun, free of age-inappropriate content, and that the player does not become isolated in a digital environment. to do this, we already have the pan-european pegi system, which has proven itself and needs to be further supported. we must also remain vigilant in respecting european rules on unfair trading practices. finally, video games and esports must also contribute to the ecological transition, not only by reducing their co2 emissions, but also by using the power of this medium to educate and raise awareness among players. we know that the immersive value of video games can convey a lot of messages. we are therefore convinced that video games and electronic sports are assets for the future. the european union, by taking its digital destiny into its own hands through more investment in this sector, will be able to give a true european culture to the digital worlds.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our left group, i am asking for a resolution on the human rights violations linked to the world cup in qatar. this world cup, as you know, is being played on the bodies and corpses of 6,500 workers exploited on the qatari construction sites, and whose families have been abandoned without compensation. thousands of human rights violations have been documented, from near-slavery to arbitrary arrests. i welcome the fact that several groups in this parliament are accepting the debate but are refusing to accept a resolution. so, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this massacre, we cannot just talk. our role is to take a stand on the creation of a compensation fund to give justice to bereaved families, failing to give them back the lives of their loved ones; on the responsibility of european corporate accomplices; on the diplomatic guarantee given by our leaders to this giant advertisement for an authoritarian regime; on the conditions for awarding sporting events; on the fifa ban, mr. manders, on wearing the armband in favor of lgbt... while citizens and football fans, of whom i think there are quite a few of us here, are faced with the dilemma of whether to boycott or not, we have the means to act to bring the cup back to its senses. then let's vote on this resolution.
madam president, this is not a vote, so i shall not be giving an explanation of vote, but perhaps more a point of order and a point of order. we are celebrating the 70th anniversary of the european parliament. this european parliament is a transnational parliament. we have energy issues to deal with, we have purchasing power issues. i know that we are heading towards the 2024 european elections and that political groups will be increasingly tempted to integrate national polemics into this european parliament. but, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the challenges we face in the coming months and years, let us avoid these changes to the agenda. and in this, madam president, it is more a reminder of the rules than anything else. my group will consistently vote against - without entering into polemics and without even entering into the merits of the polemics of the national parliaments - requests for changes to the agenda on purely national issues. it is one, and it will also be the case with the idf's request on an electoral issue in germany, which has nothing to do with the democratic and political debate in the european parliament.
madam president, there cannot be – in no place in the world because it’s just not possible – a true, efficient, anti—corruption system where there is not independence of the judiciary. and it feels bizarre to have to say it out loud, but because we have to state the obvious, let’s imagine. let’s imagine a member state where the son—in—law of the leader of the country has just been awarded a tender in the context of public procurement concerning european funds. all very fictional, of course. and all of this was done in mysterious ways. there are a number of important problematic failures in the procedures, and there’s this new tool that has been created and implemented in this country. we could name it the ‘integrity authority’. and it’s just been created and it’s a really independent monitoring body. it has serious expertise and good staff, and it will bring the case to court. plenty of fact, plenty of evidence. and then the president of the highest level of justice in this country, let’s call it the supreme court, decides to allocate himself the case to a judge because, you know, he is a friend of the leader of the country, he has been nominated at this job by friends of the leaders and he has the power to overrule on political cases. still, very theoretical. and so he gives the case to a specific judge, another friend of all of these people, all friends, all sharing the same interests, the same money. and then, of course, the case drags on and drags on and justice is never made. end of story. how we can be studying, on one side, the- 17 measures to fight anti—corruption in hungary and, on the other side, not requesting a true plan of reforms for judiciary bewilders me.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is a rumor that the commission is about to give in to viktor orbán's blackmail by offering him €12 billion to buy his veto. orbán who despises everything the union defends and stands for, except his money. commissioner, that rumour is not reassuring to anyone in this house, let alone the taxpayers. so can you confirm that the 17 reforms that have been undertaken are already effective, that they have solved all the problems of corruption in hungary and that they are certainly irreversible? can you guarantee that the independence of the judiciary and the media will be restored after ten years of the dismantling of democratic principles? because, as it is, no one here believes. the commission has a great responsibility, as you know. we expect the commission to protect the rule of law, not to bow to the dictatorship apprentices who use and abuse the money of the europeans. we expect the commission and its president to give them nothing.
madam president, commissioner, 33 million people in europe today suffer from diabetes, 90% of them with type 2 diabetes. let's be clear: type 2 diabetes is basically a disease of poor nutrition - too rich, too sweet, and unbalanced. the key to diabetes prevention is education about healthy eating from an early age and simple, understandable and science-based information for consumers about the food products they buy. that is why, commissioner, the revision of the nutrition labelling directive is one of the key elements of the healthier together initiative you have recently launched. and because the risk factors for diabetes are common to those for cancer and cardiovascular disease, among others, we need a genuine european strategy for the prevention of chronic diseases, which will allow the integration of health determinants into all european policies, establish inclusive governance, including consumer and patient representatives, and above all encourage member states to implement ambitious prevention measures without ever giving in to pressure from interest groups.
madam president, over the past 30 years, europe has succeeded in controlling the spread of diabetes and the majority of deaths associated with this disease are due to late diagnosis. efforts to democratize prevention tools must therefore never be weakened. but for the last 30 years europe has also done everything possible to develop the causes of diabetes: you have caused a retreat into the service industries, brought in hyper-sugared food in bulk, promoted an inadequate nutriscore and preferred to fight for quotas in companies rather than combating stress at work. at the same time, the ageing of the european population will mathematically increase the number of people at risk. the european health policy should have been proven during the pandemic. on the contrary, it has shown its incompetence to the world, leaving the borders open and bringing masks from china and vaccines from the united states. a serious review of the european way of life and of your health policy is therefore necessary. eliminating the causes at the source means avoiding a second stab at the hospital services of our countries.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, on sunday the world cup kicked off in qatar. but for once, without even knowing the odds, i can already give you the winner: it's the shame that has won. the shame for france, nicolas sarkozy and michel platini, to have awarded this world cup against the sale of fighter jets and juicy contracts, thus demonstrating how much sport was political, displeased emmanuel macron. the shame of playing football on the corpses of more than 6,500 workers exploited to death and abandoning their families without compensation while fifa pockets $6.4 billion. it is a shame to bury the climate the day after cop27 in a country that is not the world champion in football but in co2 emissions, with its air-conditioned stadiums in the middle of the desert. shame on our leaders for endorsing an authoritarian regime that pays spectators to hide the sordid reality of its power and arbitrary arrests of dissidents. the shame of banning the wearing of a simple "one love" bracelet in support of oppressed gays and lgbtqi people in this stadium - and which i am proud to wear here in this chamber. shame on all of us who love football and see this popular sport created by the poor and stolen by the rich. shame on you! but i hear the cynics say it's too late. that's not true. we need to set up a compensation fund for the victims and assume a diplomatic boycott. above all, we can decide that this will no longer happen with an ambitious directive on the duty of vigilance. all the companies involved - fifa, vinci, bouygues, deutsche bank - would be held responsible. it's up to us to change the rules of the game so that in the future, shame never wins the world cup.
ms aubry, i need to say that banners are not allowed in the plenary. two colleagues already voluntarily agreed to the rule, so perhaps you will as well. thank you.
madam president, madam commissioner, it is 12 years since fifa decided that the 2022 football world cup would be held in qatar. is it not a sad paradox that, now that this championship is starting, the debate on the situation of labour rights, human rights, the principle of non-discrimination against women, against the lgbtqi group is hotter than ever...? it is. this parliament cannot review the fifa decision. nor can this parliament demand that any cooperation relationship between the european union and a third country be based on the requirement that that third country observe our same standards of fundamental rights. but what this parliament can do, and does do, is to demand that the partnership and cooperation relationship be conditional on tangible progress on labour rights, human rights, non-discrimination against women and the lgbti community and, hopefully, on improving freedom of criticism and, of course, the banning of torture and the death penalty. and that is the point of this debate. the commission has taken the initiative to amend the regulation establishing the states which are exempt from the visa requirement for entry into the european union on the basis of reciprocity. this parliament is convinced that visa-free travel is a good thing because it encourages, precisely through exchange, the improvement of human rights and freedoms. but it also demands that this european parliament be regularly informed annually about its tangible progress on labour rights, human rights, non-discrimination and the banning of torture and the death penalty.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we were hoping for a gesture from fifa, a tribute to the 6 500 workers who died in qatar while building, in inhuman conditions, oversized, air-conditioned stadiums in the middle of the desert. the tribute didn't happen. today, fifa is directly pressuring players to stop wearing a bracelet in support of lgbt people, whose rights are being violated in qatar. gentlemen of fifa, there are limits to compromise. while we should be celebrating the great football festival, we are ashamed to live this choice made in 2010 and tainted with suspicions of corruption. of course, the current president of fifa wasn't there in 2010. but where are his regrets when he says he wants to open up big competitions to countries like, i quote, north korea? the last world cup in russia or the olympics in china didn't change anything. but in the end, the world cup acted as a huge reveal. the qatar seduction operation has turned the planetary "bad buzz" upside down. and the message to fifa is clear: reform your institutions, reconnect with the values of equality, tolerance, transparency and universality. the true values of the sport.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, just nine years ago we voted a resolution on the deplorable situation of workers in qatar. for nine years there has been no resolution for the simple reason that - and you explained it, madam commissioner, in your very measured speech - there has been progress on workers' rights. so, of course, the situation is not perfect in qatar today, far from it. much progress remains to be made, but it is the country that has started on the path of reform. and the organisation of the world cup, beyond all the events it has organised, was probably the trigger that accelerated these reforms. it must be acknowledged today that the abandonment of kafala, this system of dependence on workers, is still the only country in the arabian peninsula that has done so. minimum wage, payment into a bank account, organisation of consultations within companies, even if unions are still not allowed today. so today, the unilaterally negative discourse seems detrimental to the development of rights in the future in qatar. because what is important is that when the lights of the world cup are extinguished, the positive evolution continues not only in qatar, but that it can make a splash in all the countries of the arabian peninsula. and i remind him, if there are two million migrant workers in qatar, there are forty million in this whole area and they all deserve a much better fate tomorrow than today.
madam president, the banning of beer in the stadiums will have caused as much publicity as the deaths of 6,500 slave workers. i don't know what it says about our humanity, but i do know what it says about the qatari government. he has no respect for his partners, no respect for human rights, and he is incapable of fulfilling his commitments. let us not pretend to be surprised because behind the fifa screen we are responsible - france in particular - for entrusting the organisation of this cup to a state whose practices were known, but which often also let corruption guide its choices. let us ask ourselves the question of these exorbitant events, often coveted by repressive states in search of a new image. let us ask ourselves this question in advance of the climate impact and let us ensure that the criteria are finally established. fifa imposes a luxury price list for the organisation of the world cup. it is time for it to impose a human rights and ecology bill of lading, and to be imposed. it is up to us politicians to make that voice heard. to walk away is to become complicit in this.
madam president, what are the risks for european footballers who wear a rainbow armband in the stadium? getting shot like the five people who died in a gay bar in colorado springs? no, i'm not going. are they risking their lives like their iranian colleagues? these iranian colleagues who behaved with remarkable bravery this afternoon? the answer is again no, they risk nothing. they don't risk anything by talking about homosexuality and respect for lgbti people on football fields. because, after all, homophobic slurs are ubiquitous on football fields. the captain of the french team even said it was part of the folklore. well, fifa gentlemen, as long as this is part of the folklore, we will keep up our pressure to make this folklore part of a distant and bad memory.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, what the debate today testifies is your continued, of course, interest on the engagement of the human rights situation in qatar. as i said in my opening remarks, yes, the human rights path for qatar is far from complete. and as for any other country, it is a journey that will continue, that will never be finished and numerous challenges remain. now, the eu has adopted a very clear gender equality strategy in 2020–2025, where women, men, girls and boys in all their diversity have equal opportunities. and on lgbtqi persons in europe, the eu of course is fully committed to addressing inequalities and challenges, and we presented the strategy in 2020, and we will not be compromising on our principles and values because we believe in a europe and a world that embraces diversity and not hides it. of course, as i said in my opening remarks, every life lost and every work-related death lost is a tragedy. so let me stress once again that the eu will continue to follow the human rights situation in qatar very closely. we will do this through our annual political dialogue and human rights dialogue with the government, through our newly established eu delegation in doha and in close contact with the international labour organization. but we stand ready to support and assist qatar in its human rights reform agenda. and we strongly encourage the qatari government to look beyond the glamour of this sporting feast and beyond the final whistle of the world cup final on 18 december.
this conversation is over. the deadline for tabling motions for resolutions is 12 noon tomorrow, 22 november 2022. the vote will be held on thursday, 24 november 2022. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. qatar is not a european democracy. the same argument applies to russia, which hosted the previous world championships and the winter olympics, and to china, which hosted the olympic games. of course, the european union must stand up for human rights worldwide, but it is hypocritical to criticise a small qatar while accepting the hosting of sporting events in beijing and sochi. i consider qatar the most european country in the middle east. qatar has repeatedly voted at the un alongside estonia and other western countries, including unequivocally condemning russia's war of aggression against ukraine. qatar has significantly expanded workers' rights, introduced elections and also established a news channel that is much more open than its arab competitors. it's a long way from putin's russia, where people are sent to prison for calling the war in ukraine a war. qatar has invested heavily in hosting the football world cup. it's hard to organize sports competitions in a country that's just a patchwork of countries. if we want sporting events not only in finland, norway and sweden, they must also be organised in countries where democracy has room for development. given the positive developments in qatar, i do not consider the criticism against qatar to be proportionate.
in writing. sport is a bond. sports are a unifying force. football is a phenomenon that goes beyond politics and teaches us about the values of teamwork, of collegiality, about the values of life. this is the football we want to play, watch, and relate to. unfortunately, that's not the case for the world cup in qatar. there are too many questions left unanswered that the country has not been able or willing to answer since fifa declared it the host of the world cup in 2010. we're talking about the exploitation of workers, the blatant violation of the rights of women and the lgbt community, the denial of basic democratic standards. moreover, there are reports of thousands of workers dead, of people being imprisoned without trial, of oppression and harassment. football and other sports are increasingly being abused by capital interests, including values that should be taken for granted. the world cup in qatar is just one, but not the only, proof of that. we all have to stand up to this kind of abuse of sport, especially the politicians. i therefore welcome the european parliament's resolution on qatar. that's an important message, but it's not enough to free sport from the ever-increasing grip of capitalist interests. after all, it's not just about sports anymore. it's about human rights, it's about respect for the law, it's about dignity, it's about humanity. let's put a mirror on capital and its abuses in sports!
the next item is the report by mr josé manuel fernandes and mrs valérie hayer, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the implementation of the borrowing strategy for the financing of the next generation eu instrument (ini) (2021/2076 (()) (a9-0250/2022).
the european union's response to the pandemic crisis is unprecedented. it is a historic response, a strong response. for the first time in the european union, the commission went to the markets and it wasn't just to lend money to the member states, it was to strengthen the programmes, it was to give grants to the member states, for them to make the recovery and resilience plans. the amount to be paid in respect of the amount the budget will bear is €800 billion in this case, only €420 billion , which is to be paid by 2058. it's something that has to hold us accountable. the member states have, in addition to these amounts, what is the multiannual financial framework until 2027. the member states have 2 billion euros available if these two instruments are added together, a shower of millions. never before have so many resources been squandered because they are not being used as fast as they should be. it is not enough to spend, we must spend well for the citizens of the european union, so that we can protect the future of our young people. and here's a point that's extremely important: is that if necessary, we have to extend the date of nextgenerationeu, the date of the recovery and resilience plans, because we need good projects, quality projects. it is not necessary, nor can it be accepted, that projects be rushed through just to spend the money that is available. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. is that there are 420 billion euros that are going to be paid out by 2058. and at the moment this debt is being paid through the budget and within the budget, which brings constraints, reduces flexibility and hurts other programmes. mrr, nextgenerationeu, recovery and resilience plans cannot be done at the expense of other programmes, other policies. and that's why we always defend and insist: the debt repayment must be within the budget but above the budget ceilings, so that we do not undermine the programmes, so that we do not undermine the other policies. and there is another essential point: these resources, which are currently being paid from the budget of the european union, cannot be used against future generations, and it is therefore essential that this parliament should approve new own resources, new revenue which cannot penalise citizens, which must be in line with the objectives of the european union and which we urgently need, and moreover, there is an interinstitutional agreement, which is legally binding and which the member states must respect. and the european parliament has done its job, the european commission has also moved forward. it is now up to the member states not to penalize the next generations, and that is absolutely crucial, absolutely essential. and i trust that our governments will have the sensitivity not to jeopardize the future of the next generations and to have a multiannual financial framework in the future where the debt that has to be paid does not jeopardize the policies, priorities and programmes of the european union.
i'm the reporter. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago we launched the first major recovery plan for the european union, a concrete achievement that created de facto solidarity, as robert schuman had hoped. this was a de facto solidarity, thanks to the granting of grants which made the project unprecedented in history. i'm not sure i've ever seen one. for what regional groups in the world can boast of such solidarity in recent history? can we imagine the countries of southeast asia or south america borrowing together? no, i'm not going. this is why the creation of this common bond that binds europeans together to emerge stronger from the crisis is absolutely remarkable. remarkable as our union has been in the procurement of vaccines to end the pandemic. no state is forgotten, no european is left behind. so will this recovery plan be a chapter in itself in all the european history books? i'm sure you do. however, what we are trying to determine in this first report from parliament assessing this large loan is whether it will also be part of the economics textbooks. after more than a year of implementation, we can say without any hesitation that the recovery plan has helped the states to get back on their feet. yes, investors have confidence in the union. yes, the joint loan is a success. some predicted that europe, by borrowing 150 billion a year, would upset markets, that investors would turn away from sovereign bonds, undermining member states' strategies to meet national needs. it's not. states emerged stronger, with the same level of investor interest in their national bonds. but in addition, these investors had a demand for european bonds ten times higher than what was available. europe was thus placed on an equal footing with the other major european and international emitters, but without ever jeopardising states and their national needs. in addition, the union has become the largest supranational emitter. as such, it has a positive impact on the stability and liquidity of capital markets. it has improved the economic prospects of the continent. it has completed the macroeconomic architecture of the euro area. and it has strengthened the international role of the euro. finally, ladies and gentlemen, the union has also become the world's largest issuer of green bonds. these green bonds, which have been demanded by many for years, have finally become a reality. for 250 billion euros, which is the equivalent, dear josé manuel, of portugal's gdp of 250 billion euros, just in green bonds. as the cop has just ended, it is an extraordinary fact that many nations around the world would do well to take as an inspiration to fight climate change. now, as the world leader in green bonds, it is up to our union, commissioner, to set benchmarks for sustainable investment in the world and for the commission to continuously ensure that any attempts at 'greenwashing' are thwarted. but our work does not stop there. that is why we are making a number of recommendations in this report which we are about to vote on. and one of them, commissioner, is particularly dear to me, and you know it well: we must allow europeans to acquire european bonds directly, as is possible in some countries around the world. let us give the europeans, you and i, the opportunity to own european debt. let us not just let central banks, managers of large international funds, hedge funds and pension funds invest in europe. let us also give every european the right to own a piece of the history of our integration, whatever the technical difficulties.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, let me start by thanking the european parliament and especially the committee on budgets for this own—initiative report and the support over the years for the union’s borrowing and lending programme. but i would in particular congratulate the two rapporteurs, josé manuel fernandes and valérie hayer for this extremely valuable work and the support we are gaining. indeed, financing nextgenerationeu through joint eu issuances required a significant expansion of the commission’s step management architecture. building on its previous experience as an issuer and with technical support from member states and the ecb, the commission established a state—of—the—art borrowing and lending programme underpinned by a reliable payments settlement and accounting infrastructure in a very short period of time. actually, we moved immediately from, let’s say, a regional player to a champions league player. and i have to admit this was not without risks but finally it worked, and i would like to thank also my people in dg budg for this extremely challenging time and the way how they have managed it. based on this, we have now defined a so—called diversified funding strategy. and this funding strategy is embedded in a robust governance and risk mitigation framework. nextgenerationeu borrowing and lending operations have been a success. this was already mentioned by the previous speakers. despite the challenging market conditions, the union has been able to fund its operations successfully. thanks to the diversified funding strategy, we have already mobilised more than eur 160 billion, of which almost eur 30 billion in the form of green bonds to fund the european recovery and to build a greener, more digital and more resilient europe. each of our transactions has enjoyed strong market support from a diverse set of investors from all over the world. so far we have seen, i think, around 1 000 investors from around 70 countries. this strong demand demonstrates that the commission has established itself as an important and trusted issuer in euro debt capital markets, raising the required funds in time and at the competitive cost of funding. as a result, the union has transformed from, as i said already, a small supranational issuer to a large sovereign—scale issuer at the same level as the big european countries: germany, spain, france, italy. the diversified funding strategy has proved a success. that’s why the commission intends to finance also other eu loans, including the eur 18 billion macro—financial assistance support package for ukraine through the diversified funding strategy. therefore, we have put forward on 9 november a proposal to the european parliament and the council to modify the financial regulation to allow for this. but i understand on this there will be a separate debate on wednesday. through this modification of the financial regulation, the diversified funding strategy will be established as the mainstream funding method for any new programmes to be funded by debt issuance. this would be in the interest of the union, ukraine and any other further recipients of eu loans. bringing all the borrowing and lending programmes under the same umbrella would improve the volume and liquidity of eu bonds leading to more attractive terms of buying. this would benefit both the recipients of eu loans and the eu budget. moreover, the diversified funding strategy gives more flexibility in the timing of the loans. in the case of ukraine, this will help to better respond to the needs of the ukrainian authorities. a swift adoption of this proposal by the co—legislators is therefore key so that we can start financing the loans to ukraine in the most effective, predictable and attractive manner as of early next year. i appreciate the proposals put forward in the european parliament’s own—initiative report with a view to further enhancing the commission’s borrowing and lending operations, including the need to work with market participants to stimulate secondary market liquidity of eu bonds. the commission attaches great importance to these issues and is working to ensure the pricing of eu bonds better reflects the eu’s credit quality and liquidity. another proposal in the own—initiative report that i would like to highlight is the prevention of greenwashing via the green bonds framework, which we take very seriously and we fully support this, of course. this is why we have put in place a state—of—the—art nextgenerationeu green bond dashboard, which provides full transparency about how the financing raised from nextgenerationeu green bonds is invested. in addition, the commission will publish in the coming weeks its first green bond allocation report. so i really invite you to look at this green bond dashboard. we are currently on a weekly updated basis. you can see all the different projects which are financed via green bonds and, i suppose, as of beginning of next year it will be on a daily basis updated. so finally, i concur that this is key to keep the european parliament fully involved. the commission is strongly committed to reporting to parliament on its issuance and debt management strategy, as we have done since the start of the nextgenerationeu programme and our proposal to bring the diversified funding strategy in the scope of financial regulation would further strengthen the role of the european parliament in the oversight. so also in this context, i look forward to the continued cooperation with the european parliament on this file.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, firstly i would like to start by congratulating the two co-rapporteurs, valérie hayer and josé manuel fernandes, on what is a very good report, widely reflecting the points of view of the members of this house. secondly, i would like to congratulate the commission and the commissioners specifically for what has been a successful borrowing strategy so far, if we evaluate it both in terms of volumes raised but also in terms of associated costs. nextgenerationeu is the largest package of economic support ever created by the european union. we need to make sure that at the end of the day, the benefits for the people, for enterprises, for the regions affected by the virus, by its economic and social consequences, outweigh the costs and the risks. this is why, firstly, the borrowing strategy continues to be important and i believe that the borrowing strategy needs to be put in place in such a way that interest rates will continue to be as low as possible for the foreseeable future. but then, of course, we will also have to think about repayment. making that is never an easy decision and that needs to be paid back. we have to clarify who, how and when pays back that debt. the commissioner has rightly said that the european commission has put forward a first document on own resources. we kindly ask member states not to delay the implementation of what is a binding interinstitutional agreement between the parliament, the commission and the council, with a clear objective to clarify the repayment of nextgenerationeu, because so far the interest rates of this instrument are included in the budget. they pose a risk for the budget. we do not want the repayment of this instrument to pose a risk for the budget as a whole.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, yes, this joint borrowing was a historic moment - hamiltonian, some have said. except today we're in the middle of the pier and the end of the story is yet to be written. the current reality is that the financing of this shared borrowing is guaranteed by a budget which is now constrained by new emergencies, such as the war imposed by putin's russia on ukraine. but there is one issue that i have not heard about until now, and that is the issue of own resources. there is no way to arrive, land, or complete what we have started with this recovery plan if there are no own resources. the council is now blocked and we are waiting for it to be put forward and pushed forward, including by the commission. i am therefore very concerned - and this has been said by some colleagues, especially with the rise in interest rates - if we do not accelerate the creation of new own resources. and then, on the history of green bonds, the 30% of green bonds: this is where i sound the alarm, since it has been seen with the report of the european court of auditors that, on the previous mff, the green objectives that we had set ourselves were not respected. there is therefore an absolute requirement that we have a precise and transparent balance sheet of what really constitutes green obligations. otherwise, there would be some kind of scam on the merchandise. so these are the two objectives that we have to set ourselves: truly green objectives and new own resources.
i'm the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, yes, i would like, like josé manuel, to thank all the colleagues who have spoken in this debate and to thank the commissioner. some reactions: a lesson i did not hear and which i would like to share with you this evening, and then, of course, a point on one of our favourite subjects with josé manuel, namely own resources. the success of this recovery plan in many respects was widely noted in the interventions. we must also bear in mind that this success is proof that breaking out of our budgetary dogmas can open the way to a better world. this must be a necessity when it comes to protecting and asserting europe in a world in crisis. in other words, let us not rule out the possibility of other european borrowing, especially to get rid of our addictions, which weaken us every day. this is the whole point of the future european sovereignty fund, which we called for last spring, commissioner, and we await the commission's concrete proposals after the announcement made by president von der leyen last september. the second element is, of course, own resources - as many of you have already mentioned. let us collectively remember that europeans will only see the recovery plan as a complete success if we respect the repayment agreement. we have collectively decided that the big polluters, the foreign co2 importers, the big multinationals that do not pay their fair share of taxes, the financial speculators, would bear the burden of this borrowing. it is not just a question of fiscal and social justice, it is also a question of respecting our collective commitments and our credibility with investors. we promised them, we members, committees, member states, we promised them that this would not be done by raising taxes or cutting european programmes such as aid to farmers or erasmus. so yes, let us rejoice to see our economy back on its feet, but let us not consider that the work of making europe more powerful and independent is finished. we still have a lot of work to do.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the island of réunion, an outermost region of france, is the leading european producer of sugar cane. since the union abolished sugar quotas and the emergence of third countries on the market, the french government, at the instigation of the commission, has been forced to make up the shortfall in earnings in a profession which accounts for 13% of market employment, or 20 000 jobs. however, not only did emmanuel macron's government reduce the annual compensation of planters from 30 million to 14 million, but it was late in paying them, thus generating many street movements. today, the government is still in the wrong. it intends to allocate its subsidies in a totally illogical, unfair and contrary to the principle of tonnage coupling, which is designed to favour the smallest producers. mrs. borne and mr. darmanin are going to give the big guys a run for their money. in view of this situation, is the european union not considering re-establishing sugar quotas?
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, the adoption of the directive on the representation of women on company boards is good news, but it says a lot about the lack of european action on gender equality. we all know in this house that it took ten years to pass this text, and again, at a discount. above all, this directive is not about equality between women and men, but about equality between employers and employers. from brussels, it sounds like the patriarchy has fallen. i would like to, but in reality, nothing has been done yet for cashiers, housekeepers and nurses. nothing is done for women who represent 60% of the minimum wage workers. nothing is done for women whose average income is 36% lower than men's. we've been rowing for ten years for a little more parity in the lounges of the cac 40. so, at a time when the vast majority of women are underpaid, when one in three women have suffered physical or sexual violence and one in 20 women have been raped in europe, i dare not count the centuries that still separate us from equal pay and the end of gender and sexual violence. long live equality! yes, but equality for all and at all levels. and that's still a work in progress.
madam president, i am pleased that agreement has finally been reached on the adoption of the directive on the participation of women on boards of directors. i would ask you to support this sensible text which is being put to the vote today and which aims to give the member states the means to achieve a more balanced representation of men and women among the directors of listed companies. this directive is a strong signal to women who will thus be able to get involved in decision-making processes. this increased involvement is an essential driver of improved corporate governance, both in terms of performance and evolution. this directive, supported by meps from the national rally, will enable member states to accelerate progress in this area and set an example for the different spheres of power that make up our societies.
chairman of the renew europe group. madam president, madam prime minister, mr prime minister, this parliament, like our european adventure, is a political miracle, a political miracle of every day. in its 24 official languages and at its three seats, in strasbourg, brussels and luxembourg. at the heart of this chamber, hundreds of national parties from 27 countries manage to agree on climate laws, digital rights, agricultural budgets, minimum wages and so many other topics, often even before the other european institutions. i am thinking in particular of the purchase of vaccines, the stimulus plans and now the capping of energy prices. this parliament was the first to ask for and vote on these proposals. and the europeans are not wrong, because as of 2019, more than 18 million more people went to the polls. it's been 20 years since i've seen one. in some countries, turnout rates even exceeded national election turnout rates. europeans understand better than their media, certainly, better than their own government sometimes, that it is here that the daily lives of our citizens are improved and the future of our citizens is written. and that is why we must follow the logic of the conference on the future of europe which we have started here in the european parliament. more power for this assembly, more efficiency for europe. give us the right of initiative and you will have the keys to the problems of inflation, energy, asylum and immigration, among others, which we still have to deal with in the coming months and in the coming years before the end of this mandate. give us more budgetary powers and you will have more investment in european sovereignty. give us the transnational lists and you will have to deal with part of the democratic challenge of the european union. so i know that my group can count on the support of the prime ministers here, and i thank them for that. i also ask the other groups to convince them and to convince all governments of these fundamentals. the european parliamentary assembly is elected by universal suffrage in 27 countries and has the power to legislate on behalf of the union. seventy years ago, all this was a dream. today, this is a reality. so let us be surprised to see even further for european democracy, for our fellow citizens, so that 18 million more voters will be able to vote in 2024. thank you, madam president, thank you for organising this event and happy birthday to the european parliament.
co-chair of the left. madam president, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, prime ministers, today we are celebrating the anniversary of the creation of the european parliament. but its history, as we have seen today, shows the length of the road still to be travelled in order to really bring democracy into the european institutions. i have just heard my colleague mr legutko and there is clearly still a long way to go because i would like to ask him to leave this house if he does not want to participate in the elaboration of european directives. the first is that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and that is why we are voting against it. and it was only at the request of our group that this debate was held, which is admittedly very limited. i think that many in this house would have liked a more in-depth exchange. it is therefore an invitation to come and continue the debate with us. but if we look at the history of the european parliament, the very birth of the parliament is based on an initial choice which is weighty in meaning: the refusal to elect the european parliamentarians by universal suffrage. imagine that it took 27 years for the first meps to be directly elected by the citizens. twenty-seven years to achieve what is the most democratic of obviousness. so i would like to ask today: how many decades will it take before we, the meps, finally have the right to initiate legislative proposals? how many decades will it be before our parliament has a say in all the legislation adopted by the union and can thus perhaps do more to combat tax evasion, particularly in one of the countries that is the driving force behind tax evasion in europe, the well-known luxembourg? how many decades will it be before european political deals are no longer made behind closed doors and heads of government take responsibility for their political choices? how many decades until citizens' initiative referendums are binding and the commission is obliged to act on them? the european union is the only democracy in the world where lobbies too often make more of the law than the representatives of the people and the citizens themselves. that's not possible anymore. so i heard you, madam prime minister, mrs borne, and you, mr de croo and mr bettel, explain to us that european democracy had to be and was going to be strengthened. but how dare you, mrs. borne, come here and talk about democracy the day after your fifth 49.3? this is a very strange aberration for our european colleagues, which allows the government to go through with force and get texts adopted despite the opposition of parliament. i say, there will be no 49.3 in the european parliament. and how dare you present yourself here in strasbourg as a great democrat, when you are always gagging the french parliament in paris? the democratic question is at the heart of the expectations of european citizens. the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe were very clear on this point. citizens do not want a market europe that operates solely on competition, free trade or the interests of the richest. so, rather than commemorating a fantasy past, european leaders should finally embark on this total overhaul of the treaties that is being awaited by so many of us here in this house and beyond.
on behalf of the left group. the european parliament has tried to improve the commission's proposal, mr president, and it has succeeded. it was a difficult endeavour in which i was actively involved on behalf of the left group in the european parliament. and it was difficult because, as usual, the council was calling for drastic cuts. but the improvements we have made in this difficult compromise are not enough, and that is why i do not join in the celebrations of some colleagues. the budget for 2023 is 1.14% of european gdp, which is less than last year's budget of 1.18% of european gdp, ladies and gentlemen of the council. the elephant in the room is that we cannot achieve the objectives that you, the commission, and you, the council, have set with a budget frozen at 1% of european gdp. the second elephant in the room is that the margins for a multiannual financial framework designed in other circumstances have already been exhausted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because if you don't, you're gonna have a serious share of the responsibility. i know you want to, but you have to dare. the council's frugals, who are keeping europe tied to a budget of 1%, must change their mind.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i congratulate the rapporteurs on reaching an agreement on budget 23. this will guarantee that there will be enough money to support eu programmes. however, we in the fidesz delegation have reservations of principle, as the proceedings against hungary are not yet over. it's very important for us to have a clear view of our resources for the coming year. the hungarian agricultural strategic plan has already been approved by the commission and we are confident that the cohesion partnership agreement will also be concluded soon. at the same time, we are aware of the situation with the recovery fund, and yesterday we saw clearly that the left-wing liberal wing of the european parliament is not resting, not even accepting the literal implementation of its own invention, the conditionality procedure. they want to take away the eu money that hungary is entitled to. they are disturbed that the commission and the hungarian government are negotiating calmly and successfully, and that we are now only days away from settling the situation. the commission has also proposed that the council should be given the opportunity to present its proposal to the council. for all these reasons, we have decided to abstain from voting on this year's budget.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the budget of the european union is always an investment, an asset for the whole of europe. administrative expenditure is only 6% of the union budget. a budget which is essential for growth, competitiveness and territorial cohesion, and which must be given increased attention, and our proposals are in that direction, given the current situation of households and small and mediumsized enterprises. member states are not short of millions at the moment, and 2023 is a crucial year. if we look at my country, it has 10.5 billion euros available in 2023. the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 is due to expire in 2023. the 2021-2027 should be running by now, and we still have the recovery and resilience plan. we now call on the states to comply, to comply, in the case of portugal, in favour of the portuguese, in favour of the european citizens, and external solidarity is also essential with ukraine and with the developing countries.
mr president, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the eu is not in crisis enough to inflate its budget even further and justify borrowing. the so-called corona rebuilding fund was sold to us as a one-off exception to the contractual and illegal joint debt collection. the commission's current draft budget for 2023 again envisages the eu taking on its own debt this time with reference to the war in ukraine. it is as true that individual member states should help the country in need as it is absurd that the eu should go into debt as a community so that ukraine can cover its state expenditure. i am not saying this for the first time and i am certainly not saying it for the last time: nothing can justify breaking the european treaties in the form of a debt community. the eu must never be given a debt licence or its own tax sovereignty. it must remain purely the contribution of the sovereign member states. that is what the treaties say, and it is the duty of this house to ensure that the treaties are respected. additional debt to pump more money into the market now, at the expense of future generations, is in the truest sense of the word forgiveness antisocial.
mr president, dear colleagues, the european union has a budget for 2023, and that is good news. all beneficiaries of eu funds now have certainty. farmers, researchers, small and medium-sized enterprises: they all know that money will come and money will come on time. that is good news. i would like to congratulate the two co-rapporteurs of the parliament, mr ştefănuță and mr herbst, for defending so successfully the priorities of the parliament. and i would like to thank the commission, and commissioner hahn personally, for the extremely helpful, useful, essential role that they have played in finding a common position between the parliament and the council. it is clear that for next year we have a budget. but we also need to work on the long term and we need to do two things, because the multiannual financial framework has shown its limits. we saw that the budget only has a limited capacity to respond to unforeseen situations. we should do two things, minister, commissioner, colleagues: firstly, we should start together the work on the revision of the multiannual financial framework, and secondly we should clarify the repayment for nextgenerationeu so that it doesn’t become a burden for the budget of the european union in the future.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened very carefully to the debate, the priorities and views expressed in this house with respect to the 2023 budget. i note that even so some members have some hesitations on some specific points we have agreed upon. there is a large support for the overall outcome of these intensive negotiations. let me stress that the agreement on the 2023 budget respects the agreement on the current mmf and it reflects the priorities of all the three institutions. but there is very limited space for enforcements. i think i have to recall that more than 99% of the budget is pre-allocated and that is why it is not so easy to identify opportunities of relocations, enforcements, etc. and to keep, which was also expressed by some speakers, the necessary flexibility in order to address necessities which might pop up in the course of the upcoming year. but i think it is nevertheless a very positive signal. and this i would say in particular to our audience, that the institutions have been able to reach a timely agreement on next year’s budget. this agreement will ensure that the union has the necessary financial means to respond effectively to the challenges within the union and globally. the agreement would not have been possible without that determination, the constructive and responsible approach of the european parliament throughout the whole process, and the same applies to the council negotiating team. we know there will be new challenges in 2021 and probably there will be additional challenges we don’t know about yet, but at least in budgetary terms, we have a solid basis and still have some limited margin for manoeuvre for unforeseen events in these challenging times. so i thank first the council for already its decision today, and after today’s discussion i am reassured that the honourable members of this house will give their full support to the results achieved during the vote tomorrow.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this exchange of views. it has shown that we are united in our commitment to build a better europe to the benefit of all our citizens. let me stress once again that the agreement reached on the budget for 2023 is a balanced compromise. i trust that this compromise budget will allow the union to adequately finance its different priorities, which have been mentioned a number of times today and which are indeed unprecedented. these priorities are dealing with the consequences of the war in ukraine and the related severe energy crises, high inflation and disruption of global supply lines, in addition to advancing the post-pandemic recovery, fighting climate change and fostering the green and digital transition. i thank you once more for your attention.
president of the committee on budgets. - mr president, mr minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have already referred in my opening speech to the role which parliament should play in drawing up the budget. it is not just a question of the proper application of the powers of the european institutions, but also of the quality of the expenditure that is made. in addition, due attention should be paid to the detection and correction of fraud, improper use of funds and phenomena such as possible double funding. i am convinced that my colleague, the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, shares this view. in conclusion, i would like to say the following: the budget for 2023 or the agreement on this budget certainly has its merits. i would also like to make a warm but urgent appeal. the european institutions must break free from the delusions of the day. we must dare to think about the choices that offer us the most in the long term and that can also give us a head start. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. finally, i would like to thank all the staff and those responsible for all their efforts during the long procedure which has led up to this moment, namely the approval of the agreement on the budget for the coming year. i would therefore like to express my congratulations to both rapporteurs, to the commissioner, to the people in the presidency and once again to all of them for their continued efforts.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 23 november 2022.
the next item is the debate on the report by ms valérie hayer and mr josé manuel fernandes, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council decision amending decision (eu, euratom) 2020/2053 on the system of own resources of the european union (com (2021) 0570 c9-0034/2022 2021/0430 cns)) (a9-0266/2022). this is a good addition to the open question of the last debate.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 2020 we have put in place the recovery plan, a project unprecedented in the history of europe, with unprecedented economic benefits across the continent. money that can insulate our buildings, develop our digital champions, create quality jobs. this recovery plan protects europeans, it protects our prosperity. and this recovery plan, ladies and gentlemen, we have backed up with a second plan, a reimbursement plan. a repayment plan that was absolutely necessary to reassure both taxpayers and investors. we have made a commitment to the europeans. we, the members of parliament, the commission and the member states, have made a commitment. we made a commitment that this would not be done by raising taxes or cutting programs, because that was also the risk we would run if we did not think, by 2020, of ways to pay back the debt. because at that time, there were two simple options for states. first option: increase their contribution and, consequently, the direct taxes which are borne by citizens, businesses and smes in our territories. this is despite the fact that we were putting this instrument in place to prevent these local actors from paying the price of the covid-related economic crisis, which has plunged everyone into the difficulties we are experiencing. of course, we have ruled out that option. secondly, we must decide to go for the draw in our european programmes, withdraw aid to farmers, reduce the number of young people who can go on erasmus, and reduce our target for research and development expenditure. all to make room for the repayment of the loan. and of course, we also ruled out that option. it is with responsibility that we have agreed to reject these two hypotheses and have decided on a third way: no, ladies and gentlemen, the europeans will not bear the burden of debt because we have collectively decided that the big polluters, the foreign co2 importers, the big multinationals that do not pay their fair share of taxes, the financial speculators, all these actors would contribute to this repayment. and it is not just a budgetary issue, it is also and above all a question of fiscal and social justice. and the europeans will be right to consider the recovery plan a complete success, if we also respect this reimbursement agreement to the end. i would have asked the minister for the member states today, but there is no one left. so i remind everyone and the states as well, that this common debt, we will have to pay it back from 2028, that is, in five years, that is, tomorrow. it is a question of respecting our commitments as policy-makers and of credibility with investors. that is why, at a time when we are finalising the negotiations on the reform of the carbon market, on the carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders, parliament will, through this vote, reconfirm this mandate with pride and strength. and this report is only the first of many that will have to pave the way for even more own resources, as we have agreed from 2020, again. europe will pay off its debt by making those who do not pay their fair share of taxes contribute, not by taxing more european taxpayers.
the european parliament has always advocated new revenue for the budget of the european union, genuine own resources, which should be genuine and not just transfers from the budgets of the member states. it is essential to end the distinction between net contributors and net beneficiaries. in fact, all member states benefit from the budget of the european union, and many of those who are so-called frugal forget, and do not tell their citizens, that they are the ones who benefit most, for example, from the internal market. no one can feel that the budget is his own because of the transfers that are made, and that is why we have always advocated the necessary creation of new revenue, new own resources. the decision to create new own resources is a complicated, time-consuming decision, one of the most complex in the legal order of the european union. the european commission makes its proposal. the european parliament shall deliver an opinion which shall not be binding. the member states in the council must decide unanimously, and then there is ratification according to the constitutional rules of each national parliament. this is also proof that there are no european taxes. in the end, there has to be ratification by all the national parliaments to get new revenue. if recipes were important, they are even more important today. with nextgenerationeu, the european commission has been seeking 800 billion euros from the markets, but 420 billion has been used to create the recovery and resilience plans and also to strengthen some of the programmes that will be paid for by the european union budget, and that will be paid until 2058. and we cannot penalize the next generation. we can't cut the next programs either, and the cost of paying off the debt after 2027 is high: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and our principles for creating new resources are simple: those who don't pay must pay. those who benefit most from the internal market must contribute. at the same time, we must respect and influence and pursue the priorities of this parliament and the european union, the fight against climate change, the goal of digital. and in this respect we succeeded and put forward new proposals for own resources, following the commission's line, the strengthening of the market in emission allowances, the adjustment mechanism at the frontiers, which allows for more fairness and fairer competition. those who are producing outside the european union and shipping in products which do not have the same rules, particularly in terms of the emissions market, for the sake of fairness should also see these products taxed. in addition, the digital giants and multinationals, which benefit from the internal market, should also be called upon to make this contribution. i hope that this own resources package, which originates in the interinstitutional agreement, will be respected and that a new package will follow to ensure that we respect the interinstitutional agreement, the road map, in order to protect the citizens, to respect our priorities, to have the resources to deal with the debt and with the common programmes in the european union that we all have to defend.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you to all of you for providing us with your draft opinion, fully supporting our proposals to introduce new own resources based on the carbon border adjustment mechanism, the emissions trading system, and on the residual profits of large multinational enterprises. i am glad to see that the parliament supports our first package of own resources and i would in particular thank the two rapporteurs for their tireless push of this topic and i’m grateful for this huge backing because it is definitely necessary if we look at the, let’s say, progress on this debate. because as it was said by the two speakers and the two rapporteurs, we need a new stream of new own resources for the eu budget to ensure that future generations don’t bear the costs of nextgenerationeu borrowing and who will benefit from it. why is this important? in a context of rising interest rate costs, financing ngeu debt will become more expensive than initially expected. credible repayment of ngeu via new own resources is therefore also a litmus test for the union to remain on the path of sustainable public finance. but new own resources are also required to ensure the sustainable financing of the social climate fund, helping households and small and medium-sized enterprises. thanks to the efforts of the french presidency and an agreement between member states, it was possible to reach an agreement between member states on both the revised ets directive and the cbam regulation last summer. at the same time, the european parliament has adopted its reports on both proposals before the summer negotiations and both files are currently ongoing and progressing between the two institutions. this paved the way for continuing the discussions on our new own resources proposal. i welcome the progress made on the technical level under the czech presidency. it will be difficult to reach an agreement on new own resources before a final agreement between parliament and council on the sectoral proposals is reached. however, we must keep in mind the own resource dimension and the principle of universality. no own resource should be earmarked to cover a specific type of expenditure. as regards the sectoral legislation, let me share with you some observations. first, on the carbon border adjustment mechanism. negotiations on the appropriate governance mechanism are still ongoing, but the more centralised governance model seems to be the wish of parliament and council. this has important repercussions on own resources. on the one hand, the union budget share on cbam revenues need to increase compared to the 75% that was proposed by the commission based on a decentralised governance model. on the other hand, a centralised governance model has an important impact on the eu administration’s staffing needs. as you know, the commission honours the stable staffing principle. we will need to be creative and find ad hoc solutions. in your report you propose that 100% of cbam revenues go to the eu budget. but for this we have to clarify the governance of cbam. on the ets own resources and the underlying sectoral proposal, negotiations between co-legislators are progressing. as you know, the commission proposal foresaw the financing of the social climate fund from new own resources. we welcome that both institutions agree with the objective to finance the social climate fund via the general and union budget under the next mff if there is agreement on a new own resource based on ets covering road transport and buildings. finally, on the oecd pillar 1 agreement, the oecd has announced that the draft of the multilateral convention would be delayed. this delay in the schedule will have again repercussions on the proposal for an eu directive on the implementation of the oecd global agreement on the relocation of taxing rights, the basis for our own resource based on profits of large multinationals. rest assured, the commission will carefully monitor the process at international level concerning the pillar 1 agreement and will take appropriate measures in relation to own resources in case pillar 1 will not succeed. so i’m confident that we can make further progress in the upcoming months, and we are looking forward to engaging further with you.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: as co-rapporteur of the mff, i have the opportunity to look at whether the european union's budget is properly prepared in its structure to face new challenges. of course, in the coming months we will be asking the commission and the council to revise this budget, but the key question is how the european union's budget will be financed, what the sources of revenue will be, how they will guarantee not only the implementation of policies but also the repayment of the debt. from this point of view, a quick decision on own resources is absolutely crucial for building a stable system and a future long-term financial perspective.
the commission has already taken a number of important decisions on the future of the european union, including the adoption of the new financial perspective for the period 2007-2013, the introduction of the euro, the introduction of the euro in the new financial perspective and the introduction of the euro in the new financial perspective. this is a clear success for the european project, but particularly for this parliament, because, without having any real legal powers in tax matters, we have managed to influence the political debate and, after many years, we have managed to make this a reality. we have a roadmap that we must urgently implement, because european credibility and the success of the nextgeneration will depend on it. but we must start working on new proposals, because europe needs to strengthen its budget to be able to meet all the demands of the citizens and all the commitments of the member states. above all, because it makes much more sense to have a common fiscal policy which allows those who escape national systems, those who pollute, those who speculate and those who profit from the crisis, to contribute. so, let's get on with it.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr commissioner we are not leaving each other the own resources agreement, since i was elected in 2019, is both an acceleration and an acceleration that is going too slowly. the pace of the emergencies we face is going much faster than the pace at which we are creating these resources of our own. on the first package, it's not enough and it's not fast enough. when we talk about the macf, it's too little money compared to what we have to pay back. when we talk about the ems, and especially ems2, which carries the risk of unfair taxation, particularly on households, it is not enough, it is not fast enough and it is not fair enough. i have seen that the commission has tried to speed up the second basket of own resources. there are words that we don't hear here, that we don't hear enough: financial transaction tax. tax on financial transactions tax on financial transactions that's 50 billion euros a year. it's a fair tax, a fair taxation. this is the objective on which we should concentrate our efforts.
mr president, the move from a budget of 1% of the euro area's gdp to 10% shows only one thing: the european union wants more power. and to do so, it removes the member states from control of the tax levied on our people and our companies and, more importantly, on our strategic energy choices. i want proof of this yesterday when commissioners dombrovskis and gentiloni confirmed that the repowereu plan would not finance the restoration of our french nuclear fleet. this has at least the merit of being clear, after all these weeks of silence or ambiguity from left to right. but in the midst of the energy crisis, and despite the fact that the french have rightly financed a sector of excellence for more than 50 years, they are deprived of it when they need it most. since it is our duty to put the general interest of our compatriots first, we do not approve of your increased resources or your policies, which are directed against france and the french.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in accordance with article 311 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, these new tax burdens should be distributed equitably between the member states. this is not the case with these new resources. we have hard data on the charge for unprocessed plastic. in the case of my country, poland, it is a charge of 8% of total revenue. whereas gni income, that's 3%, so that's three times the current contribution. similarly, the ets receipts are two and a half times higher, and the cbam receipts are twice as high. this is so unfair. and the second serious doubt. the new revenue is mainly based on these environmental charges, and so they reduce the financing of climate and energy objectives for the member states that have the most difficulty. like my country, poland. in this situation, the removal of these measures is contrary to the union's climate objectives. this is pointless.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years a number of taboo words have re-emerged in the political and industrial debate: gas leakage, the welfare state, taxation. and i would like to see us, once and for all, re-establish another word, fiscal policy and policy mix. in economics, we don't have fifteen possible policies, we have two: monetary policy and fiscal policy. and we have been creative enough at the european level to do something that doesn't exist anywhere else and especially not in economics: to make a currency without a budget. this does not work from a macroeconomic point of view, nor does it work from a solidarity point of view. the question we face today is whether we will decide one day to get out of this economic darkness, whether we will decide one day to overcome national egos and have a budget, a real budget, real own resources, with a taxation - whatever: pillar i, single market review, we can think of many things. it's not even a question of left-right division, it's a question of common sense. as the international monetary fund, this great leftist workshop, would say, the challenge for europe today is to implement a europe that is properly equipped from a budgetary point of view.
reporting for the committee on budgets, mr president, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have spoken and, of course, josé manuel for the partnership and the relationship of trust and the quality of the work we are doing together on this very important issue of own resources. what i have learnt from our discussions today is that parliament is united, and will not give in to those who want to take the own resources backwards, either by using the revenue for other purposes or simply by preventing the implementation of these instruments. i would like to cite the example of viktor orbán, who continues to block the agreement on the taxation of multinational companies for political blackmail, even though the hungarians are also calling for more tax justice. so yes, it is justified that the polluting rights bought by large industries on the european market should go back to europe and that this money should therefore repay the loan that allowed our industrialists not only to not close their doors, but also to decarbonise their production. so yes, it is justified that arcelormittal pays polluting duties on the ultra-carbon steel it imports from india to sell back to us and that this money can therefore repay the loan that has kept european demand on the world market. and yes, it is justified to have the big multinationals contribute who prosper thanks to our internal market but who do not pay their fair share of taxes today and therefore, again, this money repays the debt that has kept consumption in europe and thus protected their businesses. so, my dear colleagues, let us be firm, let us be determined, let us go all the way. and let's keep the pressure up every day, in every negotiation, until those own resources are on their feet. because nothing, no unanimity rule, no ideological reservation should stop us in our quest for greater fiscal and social justice.
executive vice-president of the commission. – indeed, as i was mentioning, so there are elements on being supportive to growth and fiscal stability, but also responding to common european priorities. obviously that can also be cross-border investments. so, investments which correspond to european priorities are clearly covered by the possibility of giving more fiscal leeway. that’s exactly the idea. well, there may be one horizontal point because sometimes we are getting in quite precise questions. so the document which we put forward provides broad orientations. that’s exactly what we want now – to get feedback, to get maybe some questions, which can lead to some clarifications, because then, based on those orientations and based on the feedback which we will be getting, we will be putting already concrete proposals and we consider it’s likely legislative proposals will go out. so here, in a sense, with the orientations, we have some leeway for discussion and not everything is detailed to the last point, to the last detail because we are narrowing down the discussion with the orientations, but we are not quite there yet at exact concrete proposals.
we are concerned, commissioner, that the reform of the economic governance framework proposed by the commission is not sufficient to deal with the very times of social and economic crisis we are living through. the territories, the committee of the regions and this parliament have called for a golden rule for green investment. for years, municipalities have been unable to invest in the ecological transition because of stifling tax margins. that is why national co-financing of cohesion policy must be separated from the deficit calculation. then on the social front, where are the incentives for massive social welfare programmes or investments in public services that have been underfunded for years? i think about health care, i think about education. finally, where is the factual response to the investment gap and the territorial gap, which is growing within the regions of europe, but within the nations themselves? i think of the south of italy.
member of the commission. – thank you for this question. of course not everything that we have to address can be included in our fiscal rules. you were referring to, for example, cohesion policies, which is a great part of our programmes. i will stay to the fiscal rules and address especially your question about the golden rule and how to incentivise investment. de facto, i think we are proposing a different way to address the same needs that is traditionally addressed with golden rules. golden rules are not cancelling the debt of course. golden rules are only allowing member states a different accounting of some investments. this is exactly the same scope we are looking for with a different tool. yesterday, in a discussion with the econ and budg committees, i said it is not a golden rule it is a timing rule, a time advantage rule. the fact is that we are allowing member states that are choosing to invest in our common priorities to have more time for the gradual reduction of their debt. so it is again a fiscal tool different from the golden rule but with the same scope, more or less. then we have to discuss which investments, which was also the discussion addressed by ms tinagli and commissioner dombrovskis.
commissioner, the proposal does not take into account the incalculable costs of climate inaction. how much does it cost member states to delay the investments needed to tackle the climate crisis year after year? how much does it cost not to invest in, say, hydrogeological disruption, water repair? it 's obvious . the cost of repairing damage rather than preventing it is much higher. so, commissioner, is there any intention on the part of the commission to push for this type of investment?
member of the commission. – (start of speech off-mike) ... agree with you on the fact that the cost of inaction should be more and more considered at a global level and at the eu level. and i think this is one of the reasons why we are giving such a priority to all the green investment package in all our programmes. this is the case for the rrf. as you know, we have a high threshold of necessary investments on the green transition and we will have, according to our survey of the different national plans, something like 250 billion in green investments coming from these plans. the same is, of course, at a different level, through our fiscal rules because we are encouraging, incentivising, giving fiscal advantage to member states that will choose to give priority to investments. which investments? for sure, the investments on green, on digital, on social resilience. and then i am sure that in the discussion with stakeholders and especially with member states, we will also have a discussion on other investments. we already had some proposals coming from member states. but for sure, our twin priorities will be there and, again, considering the cost of not acting is absolutely necessary.
let me please, first, take this opportunity to congratulate commissioner paolo gentiloni on his birthday, being here with us in the room. congratulations, happy birthday. now, to my question, i very much welcome the orientations that were presented by the commission, coming up with a lot of good proposals, solving rules that are obviously not fit for purpose. and in particular this idea that we get an expenditure rule that has a corridor now between a debt reduction path and a 3 % deficit upper threshold. and in between we have open expenditure and that’s much better than the currently medium-term budgetary objective. what i am wondering is, given the discussion that we’ve already had here on investment, is this corridor that is getting, of course, smaller and smaller the higher a country is indebted, irrespective of its individual path, is this sufficient given the need to mitigate the crisis and the expenses for the green transition ? and, having that in mind – i am referring also to the question that irene tinagli was asking on the 2015 flexibility communication, which was on the investment and structural reform clause – is it the intention of the european commission to also look at expenditure beyond this expenditure rules, so the investment in the structural reform clause, and to allow further public investment that is then dedicated to the green transition under the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact?
executive vice-president of the commission. – thank you very much for this question. well, indeed, one of the main aims of these orientations is to find a more flexible and more gradual debt reduction path for member states. so that’s why we are abolishing, or proposing to abolish, this so-called 1/20th rule, and changing it with more flexible arrangements, as you outlined. but indeed, as you also outlined, there is a differentiation between high-debt countries and medium to low-debt countries in a sense. the further countries are from 60% of gdp debt level, which is referenced in the treaty, the more effort we expect from those countries to adjust the debt. because those fiscal sustainability concerns are also the ones which we need to take into account, especially now in a changing interest rate environment. we see that the period of very accommodative monetary policy is coming to an end and there is a normalisation of monetary policy taking into account. this is reflected also in growing interest rates, something also which we need to consider when thinking of the right balance between debt sustainability and promotion of investment. you mentioned a 2015 communication on best use of flexibility. at that time it was within the existing rules of the stability and growth pact, as indeed are our investment and structural reform clauses. well, now it’s also in a sense reflected with the possibilities of member states to have more gradual debt adjustment paths, if they implement growth-enhancing and fiscal sustainability, improving investments and reforms.
to be one step more specific, an idea or an orientation in the paper that i found particularly interesting was introducing the relationship, or emphasizing the relationship, between the macroeconomic imbalance procedure and the fiscal rules. here i am wondering to what extent expenditure that might be necessary to overcome macroeconomic imbalances has to be part of the expenditure rule or is taken outside the scope of the expenditure rule, because it is necessary that we get an equilibrium between the macroeconomic imbalances amongst the member states.
executive vice-president of the commission. – well, indeed, one of the elements in the orientations is a closer link between the fiscal rules and macroeconomic imbalance procedures, and also some ideas outline how to improve the functioning and application of the macroeconomic imbalance procedure. but what we are proposing specifically on the expenditure side, the expenditure benchmark, which will be, so to say, the single operational indicator, and how we will assess member states compliance with their medium—term fiscal structural plans, well this expenditure benchmark takes into account expenditure, so it’s in a sense not starting to distinguish which expenditure is counted, and which expenditure is not counted. we allow for this additional flexibility through more gradual debt adjustment. so that’s where the flexibility is built on. so we are not building on top of this the idea of accounting or not certain types of expenditure.
member of the commission. – well, indeed, the mechanism of common borrowing to respond to the covid crisis, in my view, was not only a new tool and a very important new programme for the european union, but it was also quite effective in relation to two risks. first, the risk in itself of covid, lockdown, the fall in growth. our economies recovered quite strongly and quite fast from this situation. also, it was very useful in addressing a second risk, which in our language we call ‘the risk of fragmentation’: the risk that the differences among countries, especially countries sharing the same currency, would increase because of the different fiscal space facing a crisis. i think that this common programme was very important to avoid these two risks. the economy rebounded strongly and faster even than other players in the world economy and fragmentation was avoided. now we have to face a new crisis, and i think that this crisis is even more difficult to face than the previous one because we are facing it also with inflation. and for this reason, we are very cautious on fiscal expansion, fiscal stance, and we are suggesting fiscal neutrality to our member states, which is very different from what we did after covid.
member of the commission. – well, my answer would be no, because i think, well first of all, we know that if we look at the global picture, the european union is not at all the global actor with higher debt. we have global actor with much, much higher debt than the european union. and second, i think that we had an obvious increase of debt because of facing the covid-19 crisis and what happened because of the covid-19 crisis, so the lockdown, etc., etc., inevitably needed a universal response. if you have to support a large majority of companies, if you have to support jobs all over the countries, it is quite inevitable to have a higher level of debt. but this is not a recipe for our future. we are not proposing this emergency response to that crisis as the way forward, increasing debt to have growth. to have growth, we need to invest in our priorities to strengthen european competitiveness, to confirm our leadership in the green transition. these actions will allow us to strengthen our growth. look to our competitors at global level and we see that this competition is open, that we can play our role, that we are not so far from other competitors from this point of view.
the budgetary discipline is still important. some people seem to have forgotten that a little bit in the last period, but it remains important. the budgetary situation of most countries in the debt revolution is such that budgetary discipline alone will no longer be sufficient to correct and control these situations. economic growth, sustained economic growth and natural economic growth are necessary for this and in turn require reforms: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. in a number of member states, including my own country, belgium, the lack of such reforms is already a major problem. my question is: how much will the commission commit to these reforms? and is there some kind of trade-off between those reforms and what the budget figures actually are? in other words: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget.
executive vice-president of the commission. – well, yes, indeed. if you also look at our orientations for the review of the fiscal governance framework, the aim of ensuring fiscal sustainability, budgetary discipline, as you mentioned, is very much present. so what we are making, we are in a sense, making it more aligned with the real circumstances. we know, for example, that currently there is a so-called 1/20 rule for debt reduction, but we also know that in practice, this rule is not really being applied. so we can continue to insist on 1/20 rule, which probably will continue not to be applied, or we can come forward with a different framework. so to give member states more leeway for them to devise their own fiscal structural funds with their own debt—reduction pathways, of course, not giving carte blanche to member states – because another element that is important is equal treatment of member states. so we will be providing, based on a common european methodology, each country with a reference debt—reduction pathway, so that all countries will be able to see and compare what reference each member state should be achieving, and then member states can come with their fiscal structural plans, taking these reference values into account. indeed, there is a lever also concerning the structural reforms. we are already discussing that if member states are implementing investments and structural reforms which improve growth prospects, which improve fiscal sustainability, then member states can have more gradual debt—adjustment trajectories.
do the commissioners think that they have sufficient instruments at their disposal to intervene to hurt countries that do not live up to what has been agreed upon, in terms of deficits as well as in terms of structural reforms?
executive vice-president of the commission. – well, in terms of the instruments, of course, already currently the stability and growth pact provides for a possibility to apply sanctions in situations where member states are not complying with the fiscal rules. as you know, when the stability and growth pact was drawn up, the idea was that we would make sanctions so big that it was going to be unattractive to breach fiscal rules. probably what is closer to what’s come out of this in practice is that it became too unattractive to apply fiscal rules. so, therefore, we on one hand propose that we actually go for lower and more elastic financial sanctions. so there is a trade—off, in which we are providing member states with more leeway to set up their own debt reduction trajectories and this comes with stricter enforcement. so, for example, it means, kind of by default, starting excessive deficit procedures from a debt—based excessive deficit procedure for countries whose debt exceeds 60% of gdp and who are deviating from the adjustment path. it also means that since we are now discussing, medium—term, member states’ plans, that we will be also assessing cumulative deviations. because what we see now, often countries do just a little bit less than they should be doing. then it’s always a big dilemma. do we now create a big problem out of this or do we somehow let it go? but if a country, year after year after year, errs in the same direction, we see that, cumulatively, the country is deviating and we can also apply these corrective measures.
member of the commission. – yes. well, in my view, it’s very clearly a balance or a trade-off. starting point, i think it’s quite obvious and i think almost universally shared. and the starting point is that a union needs to have common rules, especially a union having a single currency for most of their members. but the common rules that we have are not realistic and not implementable, i think that this is more or less what we all understand and share, the decision of having this threshold of 60%. but, of course, we are not changing because we are not changing the treaties. but in itself this decision was understandable. it was the average debt of the country signing the treaties. it was not a nobel prize idea, this 60%, okay. we learned in these ten, 15 years that this rule of reaching the 60% is not implementable. we try a balance. why? the balance is important because the path of reduction of the debt, the means, the priorities are proposed by member states and not imposed by the commission or a rule. and in this case, if you have this what we call ‘ownership’, this stronger role for national politics, you can also ask to implement these rules because you are implementing the rules that your government, your parliament, have decided, not that someone imposed from afar to you. this is the deal, and the balance we have to find.
member of the commission. – well, i think, in my view, the primary net expenditure rule that, by the way, we already use it is already one of the ... the problem is that now we have several criteria in assessing the plans and one of these is the primary net expenditure. the advantage of this kind of rule is simplification and it is clearly observable. it is, of course, net of expenditure. several expenditure are not included in this calculation to prevent it from being too procyclical. of course, we will consider extreme extraordinary conditions both at european level and at national level. we are not following this rule with blind eyes. no, we are following it because it is simple, observable and, honestly, the other benchmarks that we used in the last 10 to 20 years where, if we look to them ex-post, they were a little bit, honestly, not always fit for purpose because they were based on projections, and projections are difficult in economy. the evolution of the expenditure is a good and transparent tool to observe the evolution of the budgetary situation. of course, this means that also we have to preserve the capacity to invest, because you are right that the trajectory of the debt is strongly dependent also on growth. we are not ignoring at all these points.
happy birthday, commissioner gentiloni, commissioners, at this point the european commission's guidelines are going in the right direction. we must ensure both budgetary stability and the flexibility to invest in the european union's objectives that can no longer wait: the green and digital transitions and strategic autonomy. it is therefore a question of moving beyond pure accounting logic to a genuinely political pact capable of adapting to the reality of crises and the challenges facing the member states. the annual debt reduction target alone was therefore no longer in line with the facts. so budgetary stability will be achieved with the consent of the member states, their peoples and in accordance with the objectives we have set ourselves. the personalised approach for each member state, which will have to indicate how it intends to manage its deficit and public debt, will also be very important. my question is: how can we simultaneously rethink and ensure, in practice, that our policy monitoring indicators take greater account of the climate, social and autonomy dimensions?
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all, thank you for the support. a word on orientations which we are putting forward. indeed, we are providing more leeway for member states with what you called a personalised approach. of course, as i was mentioning before, it's important that it's within a common european framework. so that's why we are coming with those reference adjustment pass for each member state based on a common european methodology. but then it's for member states to come up with their fiscal structural plans and do some adjustments, including adjustments if they implement reforms and investments which are growth-enhancing, supporting fiscal sustainability, and also responding to common european priorities, including the green and digital transition, strengthening the resilience of the european economy, reaching the strategic aims of the eu. so all of this is already reflected in the orientations which we are providing. and of course the way we are applying fiscal rules is to be seen also in a broader context, for example, of european semester, where we are taking this broader approach, also looking at our strategic work directions, looking at sustainable development goals, other elements. so we are not just looking at, one or two or three figures, there is this broader approach, not all of those elements are in our orientations. but if you look at the broader approaches you are having in european semester and by the way, exactly today we are presenting the autumn european semester cycle. clearly, we are taking this wider view.
on the personalised approach for each member state, which seems more realistic to us: how far should we go with personalisation and individualisation? because at the same time we must ensure that these different national economic programmes are coherent to avoid - and you have said this - a fragmentation of the internal market.
executive vice-president of the commission. – well, once again, on this element, we will once again need to find the right balance because, on the one hand, we want to have more leeway for member states. and member states may choose different approaches. some may indeed focus more on production; others may focus more on investments and structural reform. and this leeway is there. so we have not quantified this leeway in our orientations. if you look at our orientations, they are more like a qualitative description of how this mechanism would work. but clearly there are some limits, exactly as you outlined, to avoid the fragmentation of the single market and to ensure equal treatment of member states. so also there, i would say there will be some margin of appreciation also for the european commission when assessing member states’ fiscal structural plans, whether it’s close enough to the orientations which we are providing. at the end of the day, those fiscal structural plans are to be approved by the council. so member states will also be able to sort of do peer-to-peer control and see whether all member states are getting equal treatment and whether the rules, including this additional leeway, are applied in a consistent way across the board.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. reforms are good if they are effective, deliver tangible results and impose less burden. i believe that there are more questions than answers about the reform of economic governance. i ask what is the guarantee that the debt sustainability calculations will be sound and will bring simplification? i ask what is the guarantee that the new instrument to be created to monitor the implementation of investments and reforms will allow us to make a sound assessment of the economic and debt sustainability impact? and i ask you, as a member who is not from a euro area country, how will this new instrument deal with the excessive deficit procedure?
member of the commission. – well, i hope we are not complicating the framework, which is rather famous to be a little bit complicated. one of the more qualified experts of our fiscal rules compared them to the sagrada familia. well, once, a few years ago. and the sagrada familia, you know, it’s wonderful but it is the result of successive edits. so in this case we are working to try to simplify and to be effective. were we effective in the last 10/20 years? i think we were effective in more or less one single thing, which was this 3 % threshold for the deficit. this was clear, understandable and, not always, but more or less respected. and it was a good leeway. were we effective in the reduction of debt? no, honestly, we had this very ambitious 60 % debt rule, but not effective. were we affect the on the quality of public expenditure investments? well, we were not. after the financial crisis, unfortunately, public investment was going down and down. so the fact that now we have a more realistic path of reduction of the debt and an incentive for investment, in our view, should work or at least it could work.
well, i hope you're right, and i'm a great admirer of gaudi's architecture. but i'm afraid that doesn't guarantee that the burden will be less. thank you for your reply to my previous question, how will this new instrument for monitoring the implementation of investment and reforms relate to the excessive deficit procedure for non-euro area countries? and i have another fear, which is, is this whole process becoming too subjective? the commission's powers would be visibly increased. and i ask how the commission expects the member states to feel more comfortable with the whole procedure?
member of the commission. – our goal is very clearly to strengthen the role of national governments and parliaments in this. why? because we are convinced of the fact that if these strategies of gradually putting the trajectory of the debt in a declining path, and of increasing the quality of public expenditure with a stronger role for investments, are to be successful, they need to be owned by national governments and national parliaments and not only dictated by a common threshold, a common mechanism. the balance – and it will be very challenging and interesting to find this balance – is that this differentiated approach needs to be compatible with a common framework, and this is why we will provide a common reference at the start of the process. reference does not mean prescription, it means a reference, meaning that the member states will elaborate their own plans, taking into account this reference. so i think the national role could be strengthened and this is a guarantee of effectiveness. i don’t think that we will change substantially the differences that are there between euro area and non—euro area member states in this framework.
before we continue i have two announcements. the first is to say that the speakers’ list is now closed. the second is to ask you to put only one question now, so that i can give the floor to everyone that has requested it in this debate.
i think we cannot underestimate the social consequences of the present economic crisis. so i will solely focus on how do these rules help us in this social crisis. and i would like to start by reading from the european pillar of social rights, pillar 20, which says ‘everyone has the right to access of essential services of good quality, including water, sanitation, energy, transport, financial services and digital communications. support for access to such services shall be available for those in need’. my question would be how can the commission push for implementation enforcement of these rights in the national action plans, taking into account the potential negative consequences of the measures you are presenting? my second question would be on the action plan of the social pillar, because in porto we promise that we would set concrete targets and measures to reduce inequality and tackle poverty. so my question would be, how will these new financial fiscal rules complement and maintain these goals?
executive vice-president of the commission. – that probably brings us slightly out of, strictly speaking, the orientations we are discussing right now to some slightly broader questions on the european semester, because indeed in the european semester, over recent years, we have been constantly strengthening the social dimension. if we look, for example, at country-specific recommendations – so to say, maybe, pre-general escape clause country-specific recommendations – clearly around a third of the recommendations were related to social and employment issues, and those recommendations were formulated clearly keeping in mind the european pillar of social rights and the goals defined in the european pillar of social rights. how are we monitoring already now within the european semester? we have a so-called social scoreboard where we are monitoring key social indicators. so from that point of view, i would see that the social dimension in the european semester is going to be very present also following this review of the governance framework. you mentioned negative consequences of these orientations. well, if you look at these orientations, the general direction is clearly for more gradual debt adjustment paths, for more flexibility for member states to determine those fiscal adjustment paths and so, correspondingly, also for more possibility to take social and other considerations into account when determining those. and i would expect an improvement in the situation thereafter, if those orientations are followed.
member of the commission. – i will not repeat the mechanism that you know very well that we are proposing to incentivise investments. i think this mechanism, which is allowing especially countries with moderate fiscal space to gain time in the path of their debt reduction, if they concentrate their investments in the common priorities, this will be mostly targeted on green investments, of course. but you are right i think – so this is the answer referring to our proposals, our orientation – on stressing the fact that we should never underestimate the amount of investment that is ahead of us. we frequently refer, and rightly so, to the amount of debt that we have to address and to reduce with the gradual and reasonable and effective path. but never forget that there is another mountain, which is the mountain of investment, if we want to keep our leadership on the green transition and if we want to keep our competitiveness in relation to our global partners or competitors. of course, the figures you were mentioning, the 500 and more pro year, will be mostly private investments, it is not thinkable that this is for public investment. but part of this will be because it’s impossible not to be public and we have to guarantee a fiscal space for this. the new proposal of rules is allowing this much better than the present situation, in our view.
commissioner, please accept my best wishes on the occasion of your birthday.
the commission proposal is based very much on the positive experience we have had with the reconstruction fund. there should be country-specific plans, there should be common criteria, and the reconstruction fund also provides for an incentive system so that the countries are more willing to do this. i would therefore like to make a few more specific comments on the analogy: what criteria should be used to evaluate the country-specific programmes? how is it ensured that this is done in a transparent and predictable way and that the same criteria apply to all countries? there can't be two completely different criteria. what about the incentive system? would it not make sense to say that we are also making something - certainly reduced in size - such as a fund, that we are providing incentives for certain reforms to be carried out in practice?
executive vice-president of the commission. – indeed, we had been drawing some inspiration from the functioning of recovery and resilience facilities that it is the member states, which are setting up their national plans but within a clear european framework. and what we are now proposing in our orientation is more or less the same. member states are setting up their medium-term fiscal structural plans within a clear european framework and taking into account reference fiscal adjustment paths, which the european commission would provide based on the common methodology. at the same time, countries have a possibility to diverge from those reference paths once again, not based on different criteria, it’s based on common european criteria, but differentiated. so to put it simple, especially for countries with high debt and correspondingly higher debt sustainability risks, we would expect those countries to pursue more a debt reduction path. and for countries with lower sustainability risks, which are closer to 60% of gdp, a possibility to have a more gradual adjustment path. so there is a differentiation, but once again, based on clear criteria and there is this additional flexibility if member states implement reforms and structural reforms and investments. in this case they can also have the possibility to have more gradual adjustment. so those are main elements. but indeed, as you noted, there is some inspiration taken from the recovery and resilience facility.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for your words, i’ve never had such a plenary birthday. i really appreciate your words and our orientation, but i understand the point you are making on the fact that yes, we have differentiated paths of these fiscal mid-term plans. with this differentiated path we are also providing a common framework. we cannot have a sort of europe à la carte, everyone choosing their own framework. but you are stressing the fact that we need also a further commitment on common investments, especially related to the climate transition. i agree. i think we are working on this. we have a big programme now that is finalising the process of decision, which is repowereu and at the same time commission services are working on the assessment of needs of investments. because we are aware of what you were saying, we can address these needs of investments of course through our fiscal rules and this is the point we are discussing this afternoon, but also through other tools, strengthening our fiscal firepower, strengthening repowereu, finding new ways to support the common efforts, especially for countries that are at risk with their fiscal space. so we are aware of this need. we know also that it is not easy to have further common tools on the table because of the fact that we are still working with nextgenerationeu and the rrf. but we are now assessing the needs, and i think this is the first step towards addressing the issue you were raising.
mr president, commissioners, when we make a legislative change, we certainly think about the impact. it is very good that you also explained in your answers that you wanted to leave more leeway for tax space, depending on the degree of indebtedness of each state. my question is: have you thought that we have at the same time to implement a new strategy for the reindustrialisation of the european union, a new strategy for smes? you have calculated an impact if with this legislative reform of common governance in the 27 states we have a positive impact, after all, this is important, how we get through the crises, how we manage not to affect the weakest, that is smes, micro-enterprises and how we can bring added value, because after all the european union has borrowed from the capital market and we have to give back the money by 2058. so i'm interested in whether you have a calculated impact.
executive vice-president of the commission. – on the impact of what we are proposing, well clearly when we are discussing eu fiscal rules, a review of eu fiscal rules, our annual european semester cycle, it’s obviously first and foremost about the coordination of our fiscal and macroeconomic policies. from that point of view, of course, we are assessing what impact the implementation of those policies has on the european economy, whether we are having the right policy mix, whether we are finding the right balance between debt reduction, between different investments and structural reforms which we need to be implementing. so clearly we have all those elements in mind. the general direction of our proposal is to allow more flexibility and for more leeway for member states to determine their debt reduction trajectories, their fiscal trajectories and, correspondingly, having more possibilities to finance a national investment, including for the areas which you mentioned, which are important for the productivity of the european economy. also, if you look at our current european semester structure, for example, the annual sustainable growth survey, which we are publishing today, we are focusing on four dimensions of competitive sustainability. one of those dimensions is exactly related to productivity and, correspondingly, obviously also to the functioning of our industry and smes.
thank you for proposing this reform of the tax rules that apply today in the european union. the last few decades have shown how inept and inadequate these rules were. inadequate to preserve the dignity of peoples and democracy as in greece; also inadequate to guarantee the imperative of social justice, that shared prosperity at the heart of the european promise; finally, we are unable to protect public services, social services and essential workers, which we have seen how much they were needed during the pandemic crisis, and we are now short of 142 billion euros of investment every year to preserve these public services. finally, they are inadequate because these rules do not take account - and unfortunately still do not take account - of the planetary limits and the imperative of combating climate change. they do not even take into account the fact that climate change will weigh on public debts and finances in the future. but the laws of economics are not above the laws of nature. the liberal and accounting logic cannot be self-absorbed, it must be put at the service of a genuine political objective. so my question is: how will you ensure that these rules are actually aimed at shared prosperity and environmental protection? do you not think it is high time that these rules were changed in depth, for example by means of an environmental treaty which would take account of social ceilings?
member of the commission. i think we cannot ask these budgetary rules to solve all our problems. what these budgetary rules and our proposals for reform of these budgetary rules can guarantee us is a mix between a much more gradual and flexible reduction of debt and a benefit for common investments, in particular for green investments, but not only, for other priorities as well. i believe that the process of including the environmental and social dimension in our budgetary surveillance exercises has started in the last few years and must be continued. it is very important to take the social pillar into account in our budgetary year. and now we are going to present the european semester, the autumn session, to the press, with particular attention to the social pillar. and it is also important for the environmental dimension and, more generally, for the sustainable development goals. we are working, i think, not just with budgetary rules, but with the whole process of economic surveillance to try to go beyond just gdp measurement and general macroeconomic rules.
executive vice-president of the commission. – so first of all, i would like to underline that there is a flexibility inbuilt also in the current rules of the stability and growth pact, and the very fact that we were activating the general escape clause during the pandemic and it’s still activated and will stay activated next year, is within existing rule framework. and also earlier in the debate, some colleagues were referring to the january 2015 european commission communication on best use of flexibility within the existing rules of the stability and growth pact, which also outlined a number of flexibilities which exist within existing fiscal rules. so what we are doing now, we are obviously making a step further, providing yet further flexibility for member states to determine their adjustment paths, moving away from the so-called 1/20 reduction rule. so clearly what we are proposing in that orientation is heading towards more flexibility, towards more leeway for member states to determine their fiscal adjustment paths. but in any case, i wanted to thank all colleagues for your questions for this debate we had today. as i was saying at the beginning, those orientations are orientations. now we are gathering feedback from the european parliament, from the member states, and if, on the basis of these orientations, we see that a consensus is possible, we will follow up with concrete proposals. obviously, taking into account feedback we are having from the member states, from the european parliament and from other stakeholders.
that concludes question time.
i have two announcements to make. with regard to the recommendations for decisions to raise no objections to two delegated acts submitted by the econ committee and announced at the opening of yesterday's meeting, the greens/efa group and the left group objected to the recommendation on the value of the clearing threshold for positions in otc commodity derivative contracts and other otc derivative contracts, and the left group objected to the recommendation on immediate temporary measures in relation to collateral requirements. in accordance with rule 111 (6) of the rules of procedure, these recommendations will therefore be included in the votes on thursday.
the s&d group has sent the president a decision on the change of appointments in a delegation. this decision shall be entered in the minutes of today's meeting and shall enter into force on the day of its notification. (the sitting was suspended at 4.35 p.m.)
the next item is the question time (vp/hr) pursuant to rule 137 of the rules of procedure. i welcome mr borrell to this question time. the subject of this question time is the impact of the russian aggressive war against ukraine on third countries in relation to the agreement under the black sea cereal initiative. the question time is scheduled for 60 minutes. we're already a little late. the time normally allowed for speaking is one minute for the question and two minutes for the answer, 30 seconds for a supplementary question and two minutes for the answer. i would point out that a possible supplementary question is admissible only if it is closely related to the main question and does not contain a new question. if you have a question, i would ask you to register your request now by using the spontaneous voice mail function of your voting machine after you have inserted your voting card. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. so i ask you again to put your request now, and we will begin with the first question. in order to get through the 12 questions, i reserve the right to announce that additional questions are no longer allowed.
mr. president, thank you very much for giving us the opportunity to have a discussion on a very important issue, namely the transport of grain across the black sea. as you know, mr high representative, this is indispensable for ensuring food security in various parts of the world, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is clearly an indispensable mechanism for preventing the phenomenon of migration. romania, my country of origin, as you know very well, has provided the transit of over 65 percent of the grain exported from ukraine to various corners of the world. this has put a very high pressure on the means of transport infrastructure of all types, river, sea and land, and at the same time has created major difficulties for farmers in romania. my question to you, mr high representative, is how does the european commission see supporting the member states so that they can continue to ensure a flow of cereals to third countries, but at the same time protecting farmers in those countries?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – thank you. yes, certainly, solidarity lanes has done a great job, but it has a limited capacity. i will focus exactly on the issue of the bottlenecks in these solidarity lanes. these bottlenecks are there and certainly the logistics costs are high. and that is why the european commission – my colleagues from transportation, neighborhood and international partnerships – or rather the commission budget will dedicate eur 250 million in grants to sustain and further increase this capacity. in the short term, it will support quick improvements to reduce waiting times and to improve the movement through the border, at crossing points and the access roads. to go further, we will mobilise eur 1 billion by 2023 – certainly not from the european union budget, as it’s not so big, but using the european investment bank, which will lend eur 300 million for these projects. the european bank for reconstruction and development will lend another eur 300 million and the world bank will provide eur 100 million to ensure liquidity for operators for repairs and capacity increases. also, we had to take care of agricultural activity in this region. but the main purpose of the solidarity lanes is to provide the infrastructure for the export of products from ukraine that, in any case, would be exported by the black sea or by land through romania to the black sea ports.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, mr sanchez amor, that is a good question. it is certainly because the diplomatic action of the united nations and turkey (to which we have, of course, contributed a great deal) was able to break through a naval blockade which was very obvious (closed ports, warships blocking ports). it is an image that goes far beyond going through the back door, facilitating improvements in infrastructure and communications, lightening bureaucratic procedures. things that aren't so "sexys" like warships blockading ports and the united nations negotiating. that is why i thank you for your question and invite everyone, everyone, at all levels, to explain. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. probably with lower unit cost and higher expectations of increasing this traffic. i am sure that is because they have gone directly by ship from there to areas that are much more difficult to reach, for example somalia. four large grain vessels have left black sea ports bound for somalia. that's very visible. of the tonnage that has left since the blockade was lifted, 27% has gone to north africa and 58% to asia. so the russian narrative that 'well, at the end of the day, that grain is going to europe' is not true. the numbers are stubborn. where it has gone is mainly to the so-called "global south", 27% to ukraine, sorry, to north africa and 58% to asia.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. no doubt, but that's already a lot harder. knowing the first port of call, its conversion into a value-added product and where it ends up is probably beyond the scope of trade statistics. and to some extent it is inevitable because the big ship unloads the grain in one place where, converted into flour, it is then re-exported to other places in smaller, more fragmented quantities, making a network diffusion that also contributes to the end user having access to the product.
mr president, commissioner, the black sea agreement is too fragile. he leaves us at the mercy of putin's free will. i therefore have a series of questions for the commission in order to achieve this objective of breaking away from this dependence. first, what measures will you put in place to establish safe land corridors and with what timetable? beyond providing essential fertilisers for the most fragile countries in the short term, what could the european union do to help make agricultural systems, especially those in african countries, more resilient, especially in terms of digitalisation? third, only 1% of africa's arable land has an irrigation system. has the commission planned investment plans for irrigation infrastructure? drought management is essential. finally, has the commission planned to work with its partners in the african union on a plan for indigenous plant proteins, such as niébé, to improve food security in the poorest countries?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. your honor, your questions, if i may, are a little cosmic. because you claim to deal with everything and matters of great importance. but he's right. more than giving fish, we must teach them to fish. and in africa there is a problem of agricultural production capacity. and that is why, apart from doing what we are doing, i have answered a question before by saying what investments we are going to make or are going to make in land transport infrastructure. the agricultural capacity of african countries must certainly be increased and fertilisers supplied to them in the first instance. because today's fertilizer is tomorrow's crop. the increase in agricultural capacity is for the day after tomorrow at best. but fertilizer is harvested today or not harvested tomorrow. and that's why we've put special emphasis on freeing up fertilizer supply routes. the first problem we have had is that the european fertiliser industry itself has reduced its production. and it has decreased because gas prices have been so high that many producers have stopped producing. the first thing we must do is to recover our productive capacity and then our export capacity. then the global gateway, our great international action tool, predicts that a lot of investment is going to be made in the green transition. and green transition is also about putting agricultural land into production to make countries less dependent on agricultural imports and increasing agro-ecological and agro-sustainable practices. in sub-saharan africa, for example, the global gateway investment package - sustainable food systems - the name says it all - is going to invest in increasing sustainable production in niger, in madagascar, in the ivory coast, in ghana, in togo, in zambia... i have here the list of projects for sustainable agriculture and livestock in chad and in sudan, fisheries in senegal and in somalia... in total, some €600 million will be mobilised to support african and caribbean countries (acp countries) and €225 million for the north africa and middle east region. and, of course, the supply of fertilisers will be a priority. if we add up all of this, we reach 8 billion euros by 2024. you are right to ask me to set dates for the flows of resources, because we often announce large amounts without a specific timetable for implementation. and it's as important as how much as when. not just the quantity, but the timing. that $8 billion to increase food security and food production should be spent by the end of 2024. but to do that we need, of course, the commitment of the european investment and reconstruction banks and we need to avoid a phenomenon of displacement of the private sector in producing the food that africa needs. the figure you have given is very determining. only 1% of arable land is under production on a continent that has serious food security problems.
mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for these details. i agree with you: fertilisers are the food of tomorrow. on the other hand, we have known since this summer that the increase in co2 in the atmosphere and the extreme temperatures have a negative impact on the yields of our crops. so we need to have new research tools, including for the poorest countries. i regret the slow pace of work on the presentation of a european-level project on these new genome editing techniques and i wanted to know when the commission was going to present this text, which we so badly need for research, for the day after tomorrow.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i would not like to make commitments which cannot be fulfilled. but, if i'm not misinformed, it's scheduled for the first week of december.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – dear member you are very much right: since the beginning of the russian aggression against ukraine it has been a big, big process of disinformation that goes together with the weaponisation of food and hunger. and, apart from stepping up our disinformation, our strategic communication, on debunking russia’s disinformation process, we have to provide the concrete answers. it’s not just enough saying ‘you are lying’ or “that’s not true”, we have to provide concrete things that people can perceive on the ground. this is a two-side battle: the battle against information manipulation and disinformation and the battle about delivering concrete support. you know that we have our channels: ‘eu versus disinformation’ continues to increase awareness about which are the real facts. but putin’s propaganda machinery is very powerful there, and they have a real industry. from this point of view, our resources are not as big as they have. once again, this is a two-side problem. to participate on the fight of information against disinformation and practical and concrete things because people at the end don’t eat news, they eat food. and the important thing is to provide them with food. trying to explain where this food is coming from and why the food that’s not coming is not coming. once again, we repeat that we do not target food and fertilisers in our restrictive measures. let’s call it sanctions. and we try to inform the economic operators, transport companies, insurance companies that they can personally participate on the trade from russia if it is about food or fertilisers. there is nothing in our sanctions that prevent that from happening. and this is a work of every day to debunk russia’s lies and provide information. because every day i see in the networks russian propaganda explaining the contrary. this is a long-running battle that has to be supported by concrete facts, because otherwise people will not know to whom believe, but they think we are doing progress. and at sharm el-sheikh this debate was also there: who is guilty of what, and i think that our work produced the result. but we have to continue fighting the food insecurity in one side and russia’s lies in the other.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. your honour, before the war, half the food distributed by the world food programme came from ukraine. this shows the strategic importance of this major food producer. now, thanks to the black sea cereal export initiative and the solidarity corridors, prices are falling and we can say that these two mechanisms have contributed to that 15% price drop, as you have mentioned. i would like to emphasize that most of the shipments that have left ukraine have gone, and i quote the countries, to turkey, egypt, iran, india, sudan, kenya, also to china. as you can see, there are middle-income countries here. not all of them are the poorest of the poor, but they are countries which have reached a certain level of development and even a considerable level of development. why would you do that? because the fate of what is coming out of ukraine also follows the pattern of what was happening before the war. this mechanism is not designed to alter pre-war trade routes, but to reconstitute them. but as has been asked or commented on before, some of the products leaving ukraine, before reaching their final destination, are stopped in intermediate countries and therefore reach low- and middle-income countries. we can say that what has come out of the black sea grain export initiative has more than doubled the transport of food products to the least developed countries between august and september. and most of them ended up in the world food program programs. let me give you some figures: three quarters of sunflower oil, two thirds of wheat, half of all food products have gone to developing countries, some middle-income and some lower-income countries. but in general, everyone has benefited from the unblocking of exports from ukraine.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. yes, your honor, you are right. hunger kills more people than war, and climate change isn't going to make it any easier. because climate change is also going to cause in some parts of the world a mortality associated with its agricultural consequences. we're probably looking at what's called a perfect storm. we have the devastating effects of war disrupting trade circuits, particularly those that depend on grain and fertilizer from russia and ukraine. we have the effect of covid-19, which has had very large economic and social effects. we have climate change. i've already seen in somalia the combined effects of climate change, of drought, which is an effect of climate change, and of the lack of resources coming from outside. and, according to statistics, there will be an increase of 222 million - i do not know if it can be calculated precisely, a million more, a million less, but that is more than 200 million - people who will enter the group of those who suffer from acute food insecurity. at least, that's what the world food crisis network tells us. and these people live in countries in north africa, the middle east and sub-saharan africa that are very vulnerable from a climate standpoint and because of their relationship of dependence on ukraine and russia. that's why we launched the food and resilience facility, to support our partners in the south. the commission is proposing to allocate €220 million to those in the most difficult situation. the lack of fertilizer also affects latin american countries. sometimes we look only at africa or asia. i was in latin america recently, and there countries such as mexico, peru, brazil, chile, colombia and argentina, large agricultural producers, are also complaining about the lack of fertilisers. we must therefore help them to make the switch to non-polluting, i.e. environmentally friendly, fertilisers. but, yes, certainly, in the same way that we say that the coming winter will be the hardest from the point of view of our gas availability, we also have to ask ourselves how difficult the food situation will be depending on the yields of the next harvest. the next harvest will depend critically on the provision of the necessary fertilizers at the time of sowing.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, what do you want me to say? if you want me to give you an honest answer, i don't know. we'll do our best, but it's not an easy task.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. your honour, russia is trying to exploit everything it can and the more the better: our food policy, our infrastructure policy, everything. there was a pipeline that did not carry oil, but liquid food products from russia to ukrainian ports, which has not been interrupted and fortunately is still in operation. your honour, you ask me if there are any infrastructure improvements that can be made. i think i have already answered what can be done by what i have called the back door, that is, from the ukraine to romania and to the black sea. and it is not a question of announcing more and more measures, but of implementing them. as far as infrastructure is concerned in ukraine itself, unfortunately what we are seeing there now is the destruction of existing infrastructure. they all need electricity to operate. another massive drone attack like the one that took place a few days ago and the ukrainian electrical system will be completely destroyed and therefore transportation that consumes electricity - and almost everything consumes electricity today - will be seriously affected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are still critical infrastructure today. and that's where russia is concentrating its destructive capability. we must avoid the disruptive effects of these attacks. and keep doing what we're doing. but i repeat, do not expect me to announce new measures at each plenary session. what we have to do now is apply them. because when i talk about hundreds of millions, between now and when those hundreds of millions have become physical infrastructure that works - create me as the former minister of public works that i am - a certain amount of time passes.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, your honour, poland can never be thanked enough for the solidarity that its government and people have shown towards ukraine at all levels and through all procedures, providing military aid, taking in ukrainian refugees, providing foodstuffs. i think poland has given an example of what it means to support ukraine in these difficult times and history will be made of it.
mr high representative, as we speak, the shockwave of the war in ukraine is hitting the whole world hard. and when vladimir putin uses food security as a weapon of war, of course we must protect all europeans, but also our international partners and especially the remote islands. i come from a small european island in the indian ocean, reunion, and as chairman of the cariforum parliamentary delegation, i also hear the worrying warning messages from the island states of the caribbean and it is an economic humanitarian bomb that threatens to explode. so, mr high representative, i would like to ask you what europe intends to do to support the island territories which, instead of giving in to the sirens and the chinese and russian promises, have chosen instead a strengthened partnership with europe.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. what can be done? well, develop that partnership. you're right, there are countries that have chosen to stand with us, to ignore the offers of the chinese and the russians. so we must show them our support. in a previous reply i said that we would try to help the acp countries through the food security programme, with an additional €600 million. and i can't tell you anything more than that this partnership must be a political priority for us because the voids are being filled in politics, and if we're not there, others will be. we talk a lot about sub-saharan africa, ethiopia, somalia, but we have to go a little further and look at the european countries because, after all, these are french departments and countries which, although not european, expect us to be more committed to food and also to the climate. we have just seen it at the sharm el-sheikh summit, where my colleague timmermans played a fundamental, i would say 'stellar' role in showing that europe is not backing down on its climate commitments, quite the contrary, and that it is the best partner for countries that are threatened by both geopolitical turmoil and climate turmoil.
mr president, it is certainly good news for the food security of many developing countries that the agreement to export grain from ukraine via the black sea has been fully re-established. this will undoubtedly help to prevent the worst-case scenario for these countries of the global south, which are vitally dependent on ukrainian grain imports. i would like to point out that we all know that turkey has played a very important role in mediating and ensuring that this agreement is respected, and that this is why turkey's geopolitical importance for the european union is being strengthened. - very good. but we also know that turkey is a country with destabilising factors. for example, turkey has not adopted the european union's sanctions against russia, we have clear indications that turkey is helping russia evade the european union's sanctions on oil, turkey is maintaining an openly hostile stance towards two member states in the eastern mediterranean and turkey is showing signs of planning a large-scale invasion of syrian kurdistan. so three very specific questions: what will the council propose in relation to sanctions against those responsible for evading sanctions against russia if they are proven? what measures will the council propose to defend the territorial integrity of the two union states threatened by turkey? and three, what ... (the president withdrew the floor).
i thank you very much, mr comín i oliveres. commissioner, please.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, i did not hear the third question. i've only heard two.
the third question, if the honourable member wishes, can be formulated as a request. but i'm pointing out, of course, that if a question is 75% statement at first, then the road to the questions we actually had, of course, gets a little short. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, all three questions concerned the role of turkey and none, at least not the kurdistan question, the issues we are discussing today, which are ukraine and food security. turkey has been criticized for its alleged role in helping to circumvent european sanctions. i have spoken and discussed this with my colleague mevlüt çavuşoğlu recently in the united arab emirates, where he provided me with information on the import flows from europe to turkey and the export flows from turkey to russia. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry was not able to benefit from the measures in force. the triangularization thesis (that it is exported from europe to russia via turkey), according to the data provided to me by the turkish minister, is therefore not confirmed. there is an increase in exports from turkey to russia. turkey has not aligned itself with european sanctions and is therefore in a position to negotiate, but it does not appear to be a re-export of european products. we would certainly have preferred turkey to align itself with the restrictive measures we have taken against russia and in particular with regard to the use of dual-use goods, since turkey is, after all, part of the customs union of the european union. i would like to stress that discussion, which i appreciated, and the data provided to me by minister mevlüt çavuşoğlu on a clear increase in exports to russia, but not a clear increase in imports from europe. i do not have time, nor do i think it is the subject of today's debate, to comment on turkey's actions in kurdistan, because i do not see, frankly, what relation they have to the problem which has brought us together today, which is food security, safe transport routes and the black sea grain export initiative. turkey is, as everyone knows, a key player in the middle east, and i would like to take this opportunity, if you allow me, and if the president allows me, to point out that the european position on the situation in syria is to seek a political solution within the framework of the security council resolutions. we're working on it.
mr president, yes, mr borrell, i was also asking you about turkey's role in evading the european union's sanctions on oil imports. so not only the flow of exports from turkey to russia, but the flow of russian oil imports from russia to turkey. and the question about kurdistan is relevant and justified, because what we are asking is whether the growing geopolitical role of turkey... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr comín i oliveres, this is the black sea cereals initiative. the commissioner has already politely pointed out to you in his first reply that the subject is ukraine; they're switching to oil and turkey. i cannot allow this supplementary question.
mr president, vice—president borrell, last week i launched the global hunger index with welthungerhilfe, concern worldwide and act alliance. it was the 2022 index, and naturally it was very negative. it was based to a large extent on data from 2021, before russia’s war of aggression, and naturally the most insecure countries are the most reliant on ukrainian and russian imports and there is an anticipation of a worrying deterioration next year. that’s why it’s particularly worrying that in the eu’s budget for 2023, the largest drop is in heading 6, which includes humanitarian aid. so i very much welcome the reinstatement and the extension of the black sea grain initiative. my question relates to the memorandum of understanding that was signed on the same day in the same place between russia and the un on russian exports of fertiliser and food. the memorandum of understanding was signed on 22 july, and my question relates to the operation of that – if you could broadly brief parliament on the operation of the mou, with regard to whether or not reinsurance companies have come back in, whether or not export credit agencies and finance agencies have come back in.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, i can explain what we do, but not what the russians do. you're talking about a deal between russia and turkey.
just for clarification, the memorandum of understanding is between the united nations and the russian federation, and it is to allow for the exports of russian fertiliser and food. and it’s obviously really important for the importing countries, particularly the most food insecure. so i just wanted to know if you could brief the parliament on the operation of this mou, particularly whether or not insurance companies, maritime insurance companies and export credit companies are prepared to operate within the context of the mou? if you don’t have that information, i’m happy to get it in written form.
thank you colleague, but you are on the corner of the question, of the issue of this question time.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, your honour, we are not party to this agreement. as you said, it's an agreement between the united nations and russia. but the united nations has asked us to make it clear to all transport and insurance operators that they can work with russia and facilitate and participate in exports, in particular, of fertilisers from russia. we are not party to the agreement, but the united nations has been asking us very strongly to make it clear, and i think we have done so through all channels, that no insurer, no transporter, no logistics agent has any reason to fear that by participating in the export of grain and fertilisers from russia, they will be affected by our sanctions. we have done this by sending letters of intent to all operators, by answering what we call 'frequently asked questions' on our websites and by addressing, by all possible means, the economic actors involved. the united nations has insisted very strongly that russia was asking, and more than asking, demanding, that in order to sign these agreements, the european side should make it clear and make it practically clear to the whole world that its operators or the world's operators would not be affected by our sanctions. that's what we've done. but i can't give you any more details.
thank you very much, commissioner. mr andrews has no request. i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, but that it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. but if you have such marginal issues that are not necessarily part of the question, it would certainly be helpful if you gave the commissioner a hint that this is the subject of the question. then it's probably good for the quality of the answers. the question time on this subject is closed.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on eu-china relations (2022/2900 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, this debate in the european parliament about eu-china relations is very timely because we had a strategic discussion on china, the foreign affairs council and the european council. and also we have witnessed the 20th chinese communist party congress. all of this happening in this month. and the 20th congress of the chinese communist party has largely confirmed what we already knew, that president xi jinping’s personal hold of the chinese party, the state and people, even a stranglehold of the party on the state and in particular of public enterprises. the growing ideological nature of the chinese political system, with the development of both a marxist-chinese style or chinese way, and heightened nationalist rhetoric. in the speech of xi jinping the word security was used 29 times. in the report of xi, again, 18 times during the previous congress. so the last time we discussed eu-china relation here was on 5 april, right after the eu—china summit and addressing and changing china’s ambiguous position on russia’s war in ukraine was the main european union objective. china was not too eager to listen, but talking through differences is what major partners must do. many months later the russian aggression against ukraine is still ongoing. and while we keep our focus on the war at our eastern borders, our attention to china has not decreased. china has not condemned yet the war of russia against ukraine and the atrocities that are happening there. but it has set out clear red lines and is increasingly concerned about the global consequences. red lines about the use of nuclear weapons. and in bali, also sending a clear message about the global consequences and the concern they have about it. at the same time, it’s not a secret that we and china, we have different political systems, that we view democracy and human rights differently, that we push different models of governance, that we have a different vision of multilateralism. but these differences should not and are not stopping us from engaging with each other. china is becoming increasingly assertive and developing an increasingly vigorous competition. this is another reality, and i am afraid to announce you that it will remain the way it is in the coming years. and that’s why we must have a clear, steady and sustained strategy towards china. and in our last paper, in our last position paper, we realised that the realistic approach that we adopted in 2019 has to be reaffirmed because it’s neither naive, nor alarmist. neither naive nor alarmist. it is rooted in the need to engage, to compete, and to stand up for our values, and i think it still remains valid. if we are to defend our interests and to address global challenges – climate change, but also environment, health – we need to speak, we need to work, we need to trade and negotiate with china. and european union leaders reconfirmed this at the european council. they also agreed on the fundamental importance of our unity across all aspects of the eu-china relationship. without unity we will lose both credibility and leverage. both vis-à-vis of china and also globally. that’s why it’s so important that in our approach to china, we try to get a synthesis of different points of view and to keep a strong unity. i can tell you that european union leaders also agreed that the eu needs to step up its work on reducing dependencies and strategic vulnerabilities, diversifying sources of supply and improving internal resilience. this applies to raw materials and semiconductors, both being critical for the green transition. to counter cyber and hybrid threats is something that has to be also high in our agenda, and to step-up our engagement with both the like-minded and the non like-minded partners to better address them. in a nutshell, to be concrete and short, we need to extend the economic and political dimension of our partnership, proposing sustainable solutions to key challenges and proving that our cooperation, our offer of cooperation, is as valuable as our political partnership. political partnership is needed. concrete offers – i said that before in questions i answered – are as important. and our indo-pacific strategy and our global gateway initiative are central to that offer coming from central asia. and i can tell you that the countries of central asia are looking at us, awaiting our partnership, awaiting our support, because they don’t want to be squeezed between china and russia. they want to have a more balanced foreign policy and this part of the world that some years ago that could be considered to be in the middle of nowhere, now it is in the middle of everything. and this is a good example of how we can increase our partnership with people who are not necessarily exactly our like-minded countries, but with whom we share a geostrategic interest. and that’s important. and that’s why i count on this parliament to support the work that we have been developing. and i hope this discussion today will bring some light to our work, insisting on the fact that we need at the same time to be part of a fierce competition, that we need cooperation in certain fields and we need to understand that in many others we will be engaged in a systemic rivalry. that doesn’t mean to be in a permanent rivalry in anything, in any field for everything, everywhere. communication channels have to be open with beijing. not even the americans are asking for decoupling of their economies, neither are we. but certainly the human rights issue will be very high in agenda. we need to update our policy toward china in the light of the most recent developments, and in particular the very important american declaration of 7 october concerning the drastic reduction of china’s access to american technology in the field of semiconductors. this is some decision that has to be very much taken into account because the technological battle will be absolutely fundamental for our immediate future. semiconductors are truly the most fundamental technological issue of the economic competition in the 21st century, and we have to develop also a dialogue with other countries that are in a similar situation to us – i’m thinking in particular of japan – to keep a dialogue with the united states. this dialogue is going to take place next week. the secretary-general of external action service and my team will travel to washington to have this political high-level dialogue about china. certainly the us are our most important ally, but in some cases we will not be in the same position or in the same approach to china. but certainly we have to work together because what is going to happen in our relations with china will mark this century.
i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. i thought, mr. borrell: our leaders have finally understood. they finally understood that the friendship between china and russia would have consequences for our relations with china. they have finally understood that we must be united and that we must reduce certain dependencies. but then, a few days after the summit and almost immediately after the chinese party congress, the german chancellor decides to go on a business trip to china. and he's going alone. on the sale, he does not see why the sale of part of the port of hamburg to china could be problematic. is this the time-turn that chancellor scholz was referring to after the russian invasion of ukraine? these are the lessons we're learning? if we do not want to make the same mistake as we did with russia, we must start by pursuing a more united and assertive policy towards china. that is the strategy, mr borrell, which this parliament called for in my report last year. i'm closing up. (mr borrell was also allowed to go far beyond his speaking time. ) we can only be a europe with a voice in the world if we are united. do the same with china.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, mr borrell. to say it simply, mr borrell, i’m disappointed. i heard from you a lot of generalities, but very little indeed about the reality of eu-china relations. maybe there isn’t so much to report. what kind of a relationship do we have after all? the april summit, as you said, was a dialogue of the deaf. at the g20, xi didn’t want to meet with the representatives of the eu. and at the cop 27, china stood squarely in the way of what we fought for. there is no point in putting lipstick on a pig: eu china relations are at a very low ebb. china’s attitude is characterised by arrogance, divisiveness and hegemonic ambition. unfortunately, many of our member states are not yet prepared to learn the russian lesson fully and to apply the russian lesson to china: that we should not allow ourselves to become dependent on an authoritarian regime. scholz, macron, meloni or sánchez, they all prefer to put their narrow self-interest in the first place. i would have thought that the english proverb ‘once bitten, twice shy’ might apply. but some people may want to be bitten more often, and they will if their self-centred actions, instead of developing common european china policies, will continue. we have a lot of common talk, but very little common walk. in this context, i would expect of you, mr borrell, to take the lead and lead towards unitary european action. what about taking the lead with regard to getting rid of the extradition agreements that we have, of trying to use the eeas services to counter chinese representatives spreading the russian lies in the global south? there is so much you could do, but you don’t take the lead.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, after a somehow hasty completion of the cai, we’ve had covid-19, a crackdown on hong kong, intimidation of taiwan, violence against uighurs, probably genocide, and also coercion of lithuania and australia, not to mention other countries. moreover, what happens internally in the prc somehow resembles preparations by russia to a war of aggression against ukraine. i warned this chamber against naivety in its assessment of the prc.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. in relation to china, it remains in principle the triad of partner, competitor and systemic rival. it would be nice if china was available as a partner in defending a multilateral, rules-based world order, not just when it suits them. i would have liked china to be a partner in issues like fighting climate change, in the form that china takes its share of responsibility. unfortunately, i was unable to confirm this in sharm el-sheikh. the same applies where we, as competitors on the world market, accept the wto as a common framework for action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and of course we are systemic rivals where the chinese dictatorship is supporting the russian dictatorship de facto and where we are demanding that china not unilaterally and not by force change the status quo with respect to taiwan. only together can we impress china on all issues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, mr high representative, between the european union and china stand two indisputable truths: china is our biggest trading partner, but it is also our biggest rival because of the difference, the distance between our systems. the challenge is that this contradiction does not paralyse us and cause us moral and economic damage that is contrary to the interests of the union. we can't stay in a loop. we have to find a way out. the way out of this contradiction is what the high representative, mr borrell, is suggesting to us, and i want to thank him for his leadership. i agree with the leadership and involvement that you are making, and i thank you for it, to achieve greater strategic autonomy, to influence the complex international context in which we live. the way to be able to live with china is to be more effective, to establish alliances with third countries, to strengthen our commitment to multilateralism, to improve the instruments we already have, and some that we lack, to achieve greater equality in trade relations with china. and most importantly and most effective: the unity of action among us so that investing, producing and doing business in china ceases to be an adventure and becomes an opportunity.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, china remains a systemic rival. a rival in its model of governance, with systematic repression of human rights. a rival who does not strongly condemn vladimir putin's aggression against ukraine. a rival in its actions around the world, where it uses opaque aid systems to get its hands on strategic facilities and raw materials. a rival that threatens the sovereignty of taiwan, a partner democracy to which we will be travelling with several colleagues. a rival who suppresses democracy in hong kong and decimates the uighur minority. a rival in his approach to european unity and in dividing us and buying up major industrial sectors of our economies. mr high representative, even as the european union completes its anti-coercion instrument, let us remind all european leaders that they must not give in to china's advances but act to guarantee our independence and sovereignty.
madam president, there will never be normalization in iran. a return to the status quo ante is now impossible because the protest has become too widespread and the repression too harsh for this regime to take matters into its own hands. theocracy is dying, but tomorrow? it is not impossible that scenes of fraternization between protesters and police will increase and that power will collapse abruptly. the most likely scenario, however, is that the regime will first be militarized, with the revolutionary guards taking over from the clergy. this is the most likely hypothesis, but this military phase would only last for a while, because the pasdaran would then face the double opposition of the population and the less obscurantist part of the clergy who would want to limit the retreat of the faith. a new page is opening in iran, that of women, life, freedom.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, thank you again for this exchange about the situation in iran. you can rest assured that the eu and its member states will continue to monitor the situation of the protests in iran closely and we will continue to consider all available options, including further restrictive measures. at the same time, high representative / vice-president borrell will continue to use every opportunity in his direct contacts with the iranian authorities to reiterate the eu’s strong opposition to capital punishment at all times and under all circumstances, and to urge them to guarantee the full range of fundamental rights for all their citizens, including the rights to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly. to ms miranda, my colleagues just told me that we have not received yet your request. but once we have it, of course, we will immediately provide you with a reply. fundamental rights must be respected in all circumstances. and i want to thank you for your attention.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. we count 10 protests in iran this week. every day, people risk their lives, they fight for their lives. they are fighting because they want freedom, life, self-determination and the end of the oppressive regime, which is also trying to brutally suppress the protesters. i sometimes have a hard time with the discourse on human rights when it is too eurocentric and unthinkingly transfers western thinking to other groups. but here we see very clearly that this protest, this resistance, the call for freedom comes from the women and the iranians. and then we are asked once again to react, to act and to support this movement with all our means! we need to provide iranians with the means to circumvent internet censorship, provide special protection to iranian women in exile, provide safe escape routes and stop any deportations to iran. also, all members of the revolutionary guard and the regime and any profiteers must be put on the sanctions list immediately and without exception! the women in iran who are leading these protests deserve to have their voices heard. that's our job. the woman, the life, the freedom.
the next item is the debate on the report by manu pineda on promoting regional stability and security in the broader middle east region (a9—0256/2022).
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, the broader middle east region remains of fundamental interest to the eu. let me therefore thank you for this timely debate and for your focus on this important and very diverse region. we cannot afford turning a blind eye. our future prosperity, stability and security depends too much on how we manage our relations with our wider neighbourhood, including the southern neighbours and the near and middle east. this is why the eu has presented a new agenda for the mediterranean last year and a new strategy for the gulf this year, both concerning the wider middle east. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you, honourable members, again for your strong support for the gulf strategy. we are already implementing, working actively to increase and strengthen our engagement with partners in the region at all levels. among the most visible examples, in november alone, president von der leyen participated in the manama dialogue in bahrain. high representative/vice-president borrell met numerous regional foreign ministers who, like him and vice-president schinas also visited kuwait, qatar and the united arab emirates. this week, high representative/vice-president borrell will co-chair the ministerial with our southern neighbours and the union for the mediterranean in barcelona, where i will also be representing the commission. the objective of such exchanges is clear – implementing the various work strands of those two new initiatives, in particular the green transition and climate change, energy trade and economic diversification and socio economic recovery, while we continue our engagement on pre-existing dialogues, including on human rights. in the case of the southern neighbourhood, we hope that the economic and investment plan will contribute to spur challenges that go from the most urgent humanitarian needs to the longer—term socio—economic challenges – development, regional stability and global security, to name only a few. still, as for any other region, there is no one-size-fits-all. the breadth of areas we are mentioning also reflects the diversity of countries in the region – some enduring conflicts since decades, others stable and with thriving economies. our cooperation with the middle east region in its broad sense, has become even more relevant since the russian attack on ukraine. the region is suffering the consequences of the russian aggression against ukraine, particularly when it comes to food security. but this region plays a key role as well in countering and mitigating the consequences of the russian war, be it as a major provider of energy for the eu or as a donor and supporter of the countries particularly affected. our engagement across the region also aims to contribute to the abraham accords. ultimately, we aim to support the arab-israeli reconciliation and peace. we are actively engaged in sectors where opportunities for new partnerships exist or will arise. for instance, we are advancing well to cooperate with israel and morocco in the field of water management. europe should not only start understanding the new regional dynamics since the abraham accords, but it should also learn to speak this language, let alone seize the new opportunities for business people, trade and travel and security. the eu is catching up quickly with the gulf region. in this new world, we need strong allies and the gulf is an important one of the eu. we welcome the decision of this parliament to also intensify contacts with partners. we welcome the fact that the afet chair and colleagues will be travelling to the region soon. in your visits, you will be able to see at first—hand that this is a region in full transformation, including in the field of human rights. all gulf states now have regular human rights dialogues with the eu. it is telling that in the last four years we have gone from two human rights dialogues to six, one with each of the gcc countries. of course there are challenges. therefore, we engage and continue to encourage further reforms. we also need to bring our populations closer. this is why we have proposed to start exempting the gulf countries from the visa requirement, and we strongly encourage you to support this initiative. another issue on which we intend to step up cooperation with the gulf is regional security. also in this regard, we thank you for your support, in particular for what we call the eu’s issues-oriented confidence-building approach. high representative/vice-president borrell will soon propose to appoint an eu special representative for the gulf who will play a central role in this. with regard to security, we just mentioned in our previous exchange that international oversight on iran’s nuclear program remains a priority. it is in the interest of peace and security of the region and even if the way ahead is not so easy – indeed, other important issues, including un human rights or iran’s contribution to the russian aggression against ukraine, remain of our utmost concern and certainly have to be addressed. before concluding, let me touch briefly on a few other important issues in the region. the israel—lebanon delineation agreement is a positive development as well as normalisation agreements. we also need to remain fully committed on the middle east peace process. on lebanon, the eu is keeping up the pressure, calling the government to organise presidential elections and deliver on the reforms required by the imf, which are extremely urgent. on syria, where the situation is worse than ever, the eu remains one of the leading actors. we are already working towards the seventh syria conference next year. counter—terrorism remains a key challenge in syria and the entire region. the eu strategic compass for security and defence presents a new, broader framework for engagement. last but not least, on yemen, we keep on supporting the efforts of the un special envoy, hans grundberg. time is limited and i will stop here as i am looking forward to our exchange. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, i fully agree with what you have said and i am very grateful for the diplomatic efforts of the european commission, as well as of many member states, to achieve the stability that is absolutely necessary for european security in the middle east. the commissioner for interests has spoken. we have interests in the area. is something wrong? why can't we recognize him? we have to say it. europe has interests at the moment. this report has been, as the rapporteur said, a consensus report. indeed, because we have succeeded in stopping the far left in this house, which, as always, is busy insulting countries which currently have a strategic relationship with this european union. there are incredible things happening in the region that can create prosperity, like the abraham accords, which have been cited, the maritime agreement between lebanon and israel, the agreement between egypt, the european union and israel. enough of this sick obsession with the only democratic country in the area, which is israel. let us be clear: europe has a role to play, and it is no longer a former colonizing power, nor do we have to be here giving demonstrations to anyone or lectures to anyone. what we have to have is the best possible relations with these countries and we must, of course, defend our principles and values, based also on the relations that europe must maintain with all of them.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, the european parliament was in dire need of updating its position on the situation in the middle east in order to push for a more coherent and ambitious european policy in the region. i welcome the important passages on human rights, women's rights and lgbt rights, freedom of the press, the invasive nature of mass surveillance technologies, and so on. these key concerns must be at the heart of the european union's relations with the countries of the middle east in order to promote lasting and strong stability in the region. stability is a given. what does that mean? since i arrived in 2019, i have questioned this stability brandished as a goal without anyone understanding the same definition, or even any definition. i am pleased that in this resolution we have finally established a positive and direct link between stability on the one hand and democracy and respect for the rule of law on the other. and i would like to stress that democracy goes hand in hand with the rule of law. commissioner, i hope i can count on you to really implement cooperation with the countries of the region based on the security of the peoples and respect for human rights and international law.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the european union's action in the middle east can be summed up in two words: ideological and catastrophic. in lebanon you are interfering in political life by offering no solution to the economic crisis afflicting the country. in egypt, you insult a state that is fighting the muslim brotherhood and has brilliantly organized cop 27. in syria, you refuse to accept the consequences of bashar al-assad's victory and punish the syrian people for not throwing themselves into the arms of the islamist rebellion. now you want to renege on our agreements with dubai. you're pissing off both iran and saudi arabia. and i am not even talking about the eastern christians, whom you are defending lightly and who are the great forgotten ones of your politics. the european union has a genius. she spends taxpayers' money recklessly and she only makes enemies. whatever the religious faith, geopolitical orientation and institutional nature of our eastern partners, their answer is always the same: the eu is arrogant, blind and unrealistic. yesterday, france was able to negotiate peace in lebanon. she could move the world by refusing to join the intervention in iraq. it could offer ways of conciliation in palestine. the eu is the tomb of french foreign policy. his rise to power corresponds to our disappearance in africa and our eclipse in the middle east. a policy that goes back to saint louis, francis i, napoleon iii and even general de gaulle was liquidated in a few years to make way for the technocratic structure of brussels. your diplomacy has only one face, that of sanctions. your record has only one measure: the rate at which france is losing its spheres of influence.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the dangerous situation in the middle east is inseparable from decades of politics, interference, sanctions and aggression against countries in the region, with the united states of america, nato and the european union as the main protagonists, and their allies, such as israel or saudi arabia, responsible for wars in iraq or syria and recent developments, which have sown death and suffering among the peoples of the region. we condemn the cruel war waged by saudi arabia and other gulf countries against yemen, with the direct participation of the great powers of nato, which has caused one of the greatest humanitarian disasters of our time. we condemn the impunity of israel's brutal action against palestine and its people, the systematic aggression and violation of international law, which is only possible with the connivance and objective support of the united states of america and the european union. we hereby express our undying solidarity with the palestinian people, the syrian people and the other peoples of the middle east, and we salute their resistance and struggle for their rights, independence, sovereignty and emancipation.
madam president, officer, i have to go. we have never needed to work more closely with the states of the middle east, as the effects of war and energy sanctions are drastically transforming global commodity trade. as global energy leaders, the countries of the region are indispensable partners not only in solving europe's energy crisis but also in renewable energy. at the same time, we must ensure that the protection of the increasingly vulnerable christian minorities in the region is not and cannot be a political bargaining chip, and that we must help persecuted christians in the region. we all know that the security of our country depends on peace and stability in the middle east, and that's why all the agreements that promote stability, including the abraham accords, are important. we welcome any stable government, and therefore we welcome the israeli election result, which guarantees stable government.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, we should demonstrate again our constructive role the eu wants to play in the middle east as a key partner and a credible mediator. i welcome the positive developments in the region, as has been mentioned: the normalisation of democratic relations between some arab countries and israel through the so-called abraham accords, the agreement between lebanon and israel on their maritime border, the decrease in the number of attacks around the gaza strip, the signature of the israel—egypt memorandum of understanding on energy, among others. however, there are also quite a few remaining and very concerning challenges: the difficult economic, political and financial situation of lebanon, fuelled by iranian proxies there, the lack of positive change in syria and the continued challenges posed by refugees in the whole region. i believe we need to acknowledge our strong cooperation with this vital—for—us region. the commission and high representative’s joint new agenda for the mediterranean provides a solid basis to continue and build on our good relations. i also insist that security and prosperity in the middle east must include the effective fight against terrorism and extremism. the eu and our southern neighbours are facing the same challenges. the war in ukraine, which is europe’s biggest political threat today, has also affected the middle east heavily, from food and energy insecurity to russian disinformation campaigning through the region. the eu needs to take into account the diverse impact of the war in the region, while also encouraging our southern neighbours to take a strong position to condemn the kremlin’s aggression.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, salah hamouri is a french-palestinian. he's an israeli lawyer who's been working on behalf of palestinian prisoners. yes, but for months, salah has been held in administrative detention without trial, for six-month periods renewable indefinitely. and for what crime? non-allegiance to the state of israel. what are we talking about? for years, salah hamouri has been harassed by the israeli authorities. he, his wife, his children, who have no right to set foot in palestine. nothing has changed: hunger strike that has left him isolated, incessant mobilization of his wife, conferences, forums, mention of his name, meetings between leaders... salah is still in prison. worse, he may be exiled to france against his will. but what are the french authorities doing? what are we doing as european parliamentarians? when will we stop looking the other way at the israeli government's political imprisonment, evictions, and abuses? we are incapable of taking action. for the palestinians, double standards are no longer understood. and on this subject, unfortunately, this resolution does not measure up. when will we take clear sanctions so that international law, quite simply, is finally respected?
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on enlargement is a reflection of your inability to take account of reality and to evaluate the policies you are implementing. you can't work at 27 and you want to expand. you're in a forward leak. with schengen, which you want to extend, you have turned europe into a vacuum continent which, from the frontex migrant reception agency to the ocean viking, shows every day its failures in controlling migration flows. the extension you propose is an endless extension, characteristic of an empire, an empire called the european union. but empire means imperialism, that is to say the idea of the subjection of peoples to a higher order, to a central authority, an emperor who is in this case a technocratic nebula in the service of a commodity ideology. but the eternal promises that empires always make to each other inevitably clash with the survival instinct of the people. it has always been like this in history. the eu will not escape this iron law.
madam president, let us ask ourselves: how many political spaces are there to which sovereign countries wish to join without being forced to do so? the answer is simple: one, the european union. the ukrainians are literally fighting to join it and we have done well to welcome their candidacy. moldova is trembling under russian pressure and hopes we will take it under our wing. let's do this the balkan countries, at the heart of our continent, are already european in geography, history and culture. they are called to join us, but not just anytime or anyhow. i find it very difficult to understand why the commission would accept bosnia-herzegovina's candidacy at a time when the political situation in the country is worsening rather than improving. i find it very difficult to see that there is not more concern for serbia at a time when the crisis between belgrade and pristina is taking a very worrying turn, when the serbian authorities are increasing the signs of friendship towards the kremlin and when russia today is opening an office in serbia. we must believe in europe, support enlargement and do so seriously, with our eyes open, not our heads in the sand.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first, i would like to thank the rapporteur, giuliano pisapia, and those who have contributed to this report. we very much agree with your recommendations. active and positive engagement in and with libya and stepping up work towards a comprehensive political solution that addresses all challenges on the ground is crucial. after the hope and the progress we saw thanks to the berlin process in 2021, libya is again in a dangerous political stalemate. there is a large consensus that the only sustainable way forward is to encourage a consensual and inclusive solution, libyan-led and libyan-owned. this is in the best interests of the libyan people, who deserve a stable, peaceful and prosperous country. the new un special representative for libya took up his duties in tripoli. we sincerely hope that this will create a new positive dynamic for all libyan actors to work together. now that the mandate of the un support mission has been extended for one year, mr bathily can focus on establishing a strategy to resume a political framework for negotiations, which has been missing for too long. he will require our strong joint support to build a meaningful and coherent umbrella for the political process. as the european union, along with the other international partners, which are particularly active in libya, we can make a difference by proactively supporting the mediation efforts, and we intend to do so. we must encourage the different libyan actors from all sides to enhance dialogue and reach consensus. the call for foreign forces to withdraw from libya must also be translated into practice. i would also like to stress that your report sends a strong message of support to the libyan people – the approximately 3 million libyans who had registered to vote last year. as you know, the european union had considered sending an election observation mission for parliamentary and presidential elections. this offer still holds, although we do not feel encouraged by the fact that there is no indication of a possible agreement on elections anytime soon, unfortunately. we must therefore support the work of the un special representative and libyan stakeholders to build a new, shared roadmap towards elections. as you know, efforts to contribute to stability and prosperity in libya have always been high on the eu’s agenda. libya is on the agenda of the foreign affairs council regularly, and the eu’s joint priorities for libya are set and clear. the eu delegation was among the first to return to tripoli last year, and since then the head of our delegation and team have been working relentlessly on the ground. our engagement is not only political. it is also related to economic development and humanitarian assistance, complemented by our common security and defence policy missions, namely operation irini and the european union border assistance mission. the libyans must own the process towards a durable political solution. we will continue standing by them in the team europe spirit to help them achieve this objective. thank you very much for your attention.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, in libya we have a strategic failure of the european union. we helped bring down gaddafi without seriously considering the next day. the result is very negative and dangerous. i would like to suggest two steps in the right direction, but they are not a comprehensive solution. first, to put pressure on turkey to stop arming the tripoli government and to withdraw mercenaries and drones from libya. otherwise, there will be no peace. secondly, greece should be given a role in the process of finding a solution to libya. it is a failure on the part of chancellor merkel. it was then the berlin process that had to be covered and why greece's sovereign rights were being challenged through the cooperation of tripoli and ankara. i know what i'm asking isn't easy, but i consider it necessary.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking tonight on behalf of my colleague mr alfonsi, who apologises for not being able to be with you. i welcome the report by our colleague pisapia, because it takes strong and useful positions on the situation in libya: first of all on the absence of a unified, legitimate and democratic government that can enjoy international recognition, but also on the deep crisis of human rights, especially with regard to migrants. we call for the cessation of all collaboration with libyan stakeholders suspected of serious human rights violations and human trafficking. we also denounce the incessant external interventions that hinder the search for a democratic and lasting political solution and the discrimination against women in the reconciliation processes. even though my group will support this report, i would like to denounce here the implicit support for the libyan coastguard and the outsourcing of control of our borders. these policies are being implemented without any respect for human rights in libya. they are a disgrace to our europe. finally, let me welcome the progress in france after ten years of judicial information on the torture complicity trial against the executives of a company, amesys, which delivered surveillance tools that were used to track, to torture. we in europe must also bring to justice those who violate the rights of libyans.
madam president, open civil war, an influx of migrants, human trafficking, modern day slavery. since its destruction in 2011 following a disastrous franco-ottoman military campaign, libya has struggled to recover and has caused tremors throughout the region and even on our continent. geopolitics is a horror of the void, and turkey is the leader, which has been in libya for several years, dropping its cards one after the other. in 2019, taking advantage of a political and military partition of the country, it snatched an agreement offering it maritime zones belonging to two european union member states, greece and cyprus. on 3 october, ankara repeated the same mistake by signing a memorandum with tripoli, which assigned it illegal drilling areas in the eastern mediterranean. in short, erdoğan and his strategists are exploiting the libyan chaos to establish a zone of influence and power in the eastern mediterranean, in defiance of the law of the sea and respect for international treaties. it is essential for our greek and cypriot friends and allies and for regional stability that such agreements should never be ratified and that their denunciation should be part of the conditions for the recognition of a future legitimate, independent and lasting regime. libya has not been an ottoman province for over a century. it is for the security of europe and the whole mediterranean that it does not become so again.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, commissioner, the migration and asylum pact is unfortunately the great forgotten one of the national debates on asylum and immigration at the moment in our respective member states. our fellow citizens are largely unaware of the titanic work that this european parliament is currently doing to achieve a european solution. the failure of the previous mandate has much to do with this, but it is the role of this debate to put this issue back at the heart of the discussions, commissioner. the aim of everyone here is to reach a consensus, to reform this issue. my group will take its share. we are proposing a reform which combines the two principles that each of you, the epp and the s&d, have also mentioned, which are solidarity and responsibility. but it is equally important to know what is behind responsibility and solidarity. solidarity: the countries of arrival must be able to count on the whole of the european union. we are in favour of financial solidarity, but also of human solidarity between the member states. responsibility: yes, there are too many irregular migrants and we must be able to quickly return those who do not currently meet the criteria for asylum and immigration. to do this, my group is calling for harmonised data: essential checks and identical procedures based on common criteria. all this, of course, in full respect for human rights. we will of course go in that direction to have verification criteria that allow it. but that's not enough. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances is a welcome one. asylum and immigration policy is and will be dependent on our efforts on climate, on development policy, on our actions internationally. limiting the causes of exile remains the best solution to avoid this crisis. so, ladies and gentlemen, i am not hiding behind the numbers. in fact, both you and the epp and the s&d have mentioned a significant increase of 70% in the number of asylum applications compared to last year. we are approaching the numbers of the migration crisis of 2015. our common diagnosis and solutions must be put forward, but my group calls for a positive, discreet and real dynamic to reach agreement on this reform. i therefore call on the pro-european groups to discuss our proposals with a view to achieving a swift conclusion. let us not allow men and women to be held hostage to electoral calculations and national contingencies. and yes, we will have to establish rules for who can live in europe and who cannot live in europe, but those rules must be european, fair and true to our values. we already know that we cannot count on the far-right members of this house to help us. they are conspicuous by their absence from the daily work of parliament. they prefer the platforms to the solutions and they know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that if we succeed in meeting the challenge of migration, they will lose the main electoral fuel for their future elections. i also doubt the will of the far-left mps to play collectively. for them, the very question of the mention of a border guard is a problem. and we will not reach a common solution on the basis of this logic and this assertion. we europeans will probably find a way, i hope, to put pressure on the council too, to put pressure on capital. everyone must be able to understand that we need to take a step towards each other in the pro-european parties to reach an agreement. i hope that warsaw and budapest will remember that we have acted together to welcome the ukrainian refugees. the only agreement we as 27 have had in 20 years on asylum and migration. i hope that rome and mrs meloni will also adopt a position - which i do not know today - on this text. so, enough of the spectacle, enough of the controversy for two or three polling points. let's get to work. this is our duty as co-legislators and a political and humanitarian duty.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i warn you that this is going to be a bit different from the speeches of the previous speakers. europe cannot allow its immigration policy from the sea to be dictated by human traffickers, whether they are ngos or smuggling mafias. europe cannot rely on solidarity which would mean distributing the world's populations on our soil, in violation of the will expressed by our fellow citizens. we must remember that our migration policy begins at sea, that our borders are also maritime, and that no one can claim to land on our soil without permission. your project is to receive and distribute. our job is to rescue and return. to discourage the temptation to leave, asylum applications should be made at the embassies and consulates of the countries of departure. to protect refugees from real wars, if any, secure humanitarian camps must be set up in the regions of departure under the auspices of the high commission and under the auspices of the united nations. because it discourages risking one's life for a fantasy eldorado, this firmness is probably the most humane policy there is. the politics that save lives is the politics that discourage coming. these are the keys to protecting our borders. the european commission does not have this will. neither did president emmanuel macron. ideologies prevent them from doing so, but so does naivety, the belief that migration flows will dry up on their own and that this is only a temporary crisis. the laws of population are unrelenting. without taking control of our destiny, without a general awareness, the rush to europe awaits us. lampedusa, ceuta or the chapel gate could be our future.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, when he returns to africa, singular or plural, whether he is addressing a member of parliament or the exiles, the problem remains the same. this phrase has been controversial in france, but what is said here in the european parliament in a more polite manner is no better. who would have dared to tell the refugees from butcha fleeing putin's war crimes to go back to ukraine? in this house, i have heard talk of invasion, just now, to refer to the humanitarian tragedy of the ocean viking. fortunately, i did not hear those words when millions of ukrainians arrived to be welcomed. but what are we really talking about with the ocean viking? the reception of 234 human beings trapped for three weeks in catastrophic conditions, 234 shipwrecked people whose lives were in danger and who were presented as a vital threat to our european union of 450 million inhabitants. so i wanted to read you the testimonies of those who are presented by the far right as bloodthirsty invaders: "our boat capsized, nine people died in front of us. my daughter still wakes up in the night, scared. we're trying to help him forget. another testimony: "we are living beings who want to be free. there are people who are sick, women, children. we're in the water. that's it! help us, please help us. we are dying. we're in the sea. in there. it's cold. so, the far right and mr bardella, i want to ask you a question: what would you have done? would you have closed your eyes? would you have let them perish at sea? i also wanted to share with you the chilling accounts of the rescuers who rescued them: the shipwrecked show signs of exhaustion, dehydration and suffer multiple fuel burns. some have clear traces of torture and violence in libya. the welcome of the ocean viking castaways could have been our collective pride. their abandonment for three weeks to sordid diplomatic games will remain our shame, as will our inability to save the 25,000 people who have gone missing at sea since 2014. so let us not give in to the intimidation of the far right. let's make a simple, lasting, obvious choice: let's give it to them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, if we were to take stock of the words spoken in this house on migration from 2015 to today and the results achieved, we would have to declare europe's failure, or rather the failure of the national states, which have chosen electoral interests and ideology rather than rationality and european values. but, mr president, we all know the solutions: legal migration channels are needed to take away the monopoly of human traffickers in the mediterranean; strengthen the coordination of search and rescue operations and asylum procedures; the european union must be able to take action to help the people of north africa, and we must be able to help the people of south africa. the roadmap for the adoption of the european pact on migration and the voluntary solidarity mechanism are small, laborious steps forward, but they risk being rendered useless by the sovereignist populism to which the italian government seems to be responding. it is a step beyond the salvini line, that is, of shouting and punching the table, abandoning politics and choosing demagogy, without achieving any result. a path we cannot afford to take, colleagues. to close our eyes, blinded by propaganda, is to lose the ability to deal with a structural phenomenon inherent in our nature and with it to lose our humanity.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, yesterday we celebrated the 70th anniversary of this european parliament in this very building. it has been widely said that european values are the foundation of our community, but in reality, in the mediterranean, in the channel, at all our frontiers, these values are trampled underfoot. in the face of the plight of 234 exiles, france and italy have shamed these values. human lives are worth far more than these political positions. the so-called republican governments in europe must not follow in the footsteps of the far right, but on the contrary, they must unite, strong and confident in our values, to fight its ideas, its ignoble methods and certainly not by using its rhetoric, mr weber. i would remind you of the figures from the international office for migration: 87 per cent of migration in the world takes place in the neighbouring country of the one who is fleeing. we must collectively welcome only a tiny fraction of these people. for years, however, the european union has dealt with migration issues mainly through a security bidding system. and it is a total defeat. worse, a moral defeat. and, to top it off, some irresponsible politicians are now accusing the ngos that are carrying out rescue operations at sea, because we are not able to organise them, of being complicit with the smugglers. we must stop criminalizing the work of ngos and volunteers. it is really time to get back on our feet and propose solutions, a pact that meets the humanitarian requirement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while the peoples of the european nations are never consulted, the commission and the majority in this parliament are pushing for a massive influx of migrants - yes, they are pushing. ten days ago, mr borrell said on french television that the demographic winter in europe was being filled by contributions from the rest of the world. that explains your pseudo-reform of political asylum. why claim that a population decline is inevitable when a voluntarist natalist policy allows, as hungary demonstrates, a demographic spring? how curious to want to finance what you modestly call "reports" when it is a massive movement much more similar in its composition to a real invasion. to finance its own submersion is a first in the history of civilizations. this bias towards immigration reflects a desire for systematic deconstruction of our common civilization and this is what we are opposed to. in doing so, you are destroying any hope of european unity, since the reactions of the people are so different between those who suffer, a majority, and those who profit from globalisation, which you defend indiscriminately.
mr president, this morning we are discussing rescue at sea and asylum policy. of course, of course, we have to save people who are drowning. no one here disputes that. but the best thing is to keep them from risking their lives. what is the mediterranean sea mourning today? it is our collective impotence that if someone manages to enter europe illegally, they are certain to stay there forever. it is the resignation of governments, including the french government, whose decision to welcome this ship is the publicity that the smuggling networks have been dreaming of. this is the complicity of some ngos, which are known to be in close contact with these human trafficking networks. it is the misuse of our principles by abusive jurisprudence that renders our laws impotent. this is the stubbornness of those who, in the commission sometimes, or in parliament, have relentlessly attacked the management of frontex - not because it was not doing its job, but because it was doing its job. we no longer even pretend to fight these smuggling networks, the most criminal mafia in the world, which earns billions of euros from our passivity. it is not primarily because they are fleeing war or poverty that people drown in the mediterranean. the ones who leave are the ones who already have enough money to pay for the crossing. but we have no right, even if we understand them, we have no right to the cynicism hidden behind the beautiful speeches that rely on the living forces of developing countries to do the work at home that we no longer want to do or that our companies no longer want to pay properly. europe is an ageing society, you said, madam commissioner. europe needs people of all skill levels and, i quote, the european union will expand the possibilities for migration. but this utilitarian logic, behind the great moral lessons that claim to be concerned about the suffering of the most distant, does not listen to the suffering of the closest, the poorest, the most vulnerable in our own countries, those who live directly the terrible tensions born of the denial of this irresponsible migration policy. european solidarity must consist in meeting this challenge together, not by managing our impotence, but by finally putting an end to it.
mr president, according to frontex, the number of illegal entries into the european union increased by 73% between january and november 2022 compared to the previous year, reaching the highest level since 2016. ngos, in conjunction with smugglers, organise this trafficking by arming boat-taxis of smugglers directly from the north african coast. ngos are sometimes subsidised by europe, certain states and local authorities such as the city of paris. however, the european commission announced on monday that cooperation with these ngos should be stepped up and migrants better distributed among the member states. this plan is being perfectly relayed in france, where mr macron is preparing to welcome these migrants throughout the country. in doing so, you are encouraging migration and sending thousands of unfortunates to their deaths in the mediterranean. on the contrary, we must return these ships to their port of departure, confiscate them if they reach our shores and withdraw all subsidies in their favour. you want to take in and distribute migrants all over europe. we want to rescue them and bring them home.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, if it were not so serious, i could call it ridiculous: the way in which you, ladies and gentlemen of the politically correct majority in the european parliament, come out of every crisis as a collective, shouting that the only solution to the crisis is more power for the european union. we've actually been seeing this since the turn of the century. are we having a banking crisis or a financial crisis? hopla, the capital market union. do we have an immigration crisis? hopla, the open border migration pact of the european union. do we have a corona crisis? hopla, a unified public health authority. even the treaties and agreements don't count anymore. and more and more. never less than that. never a return of power to the member states. it's become a religious dogma in your minds. even today, in an energy price crisis that you have caused largely through green dogmas and naivety about russia itself, that crisis must serve the truly interconnected energy single market. i 'll say it again . if your hunger for power were not so dramatic for the freedom of our member states and the well-being of our citizens, we would call it ridiculous. stop it, please.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. we all agree that interconnection in the energy market contributes by definition to greater security, lower prices and lower emissions. we have also worked with the commissioner on ten-e, the guidelines for crossborder energy networks, for a long time, and as rapporteur for this project in parliament i will certainly not deny that this objective is extremely important. however, it is only today, in a situation of deep crisis not foreseen by any european strategy, that the importance of national self-sufficiency is also apparent. it is clear that in emergency situations, the safety of domestic customers will be the primary concern of any network operator. and we have to accept reality, and realism demands that we accept it. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy policy priorities and will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy policy priorities. we're going to have to deal with shortages and high prices for a long time. and there are very negative examples of policies, like france, which, relying on an integrated market, has recently gone from being an exporter to an importer of electricity. but i'd like to say one more thing. the single market is, first and foremost, a set of common rules and certain principles of equal treatment within the union, which the commission is supposed to safeguard. however, yesterday's proposal on the price ceiling for gas is another example of a decision imposed by the strongest member state, against the wishes of the majority of the council, demanding that the commission curb speculation and price gouging in the context of the war in europe. and i think that yesterday's decision really caused a lot of outrage and concern among our citizens, but also in think tanks.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning i heard on the radio that enedis, the french electricity network operator, is preparing for delays. in other words, we should be facing power cuts this winter, because we don't have enough energy to meet demand. in the event of severe cold, heating of homes and electricity supply to businesses should be interrupted. it is also our public services, such as schools and health centres, that could be without electricity. this is a tragic fact and the result of bad policy choices. so yes, it is clear that better connections between european electricity grids will help to cope with the energy crisis. this is the very principle of european solidarity we need. nevertheless, we still need the capacity to supply these grids, because the liberalisation of the energy sector has hampered the necessary investments in our electricity generation capacity. there is therefore an urgent need to exit the european energy market and regain control of our energy production and distribution in order to protect european households, communities and businesses from shortages and price increases. madam president, only by exiting this market will we be able to plan the energy sector in the long term so as to ensure security of supply, regulated tariffs and our full energy sovereignty.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, before the extraordinary meeting of the energy ministers, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues. we're really late. we have just celebrated 70 years of european union parliamentarism. so this is not a new subject, because i have tabled a resolution before, from the national gallery and so on, back in the 1920s. we must work as quickly as possible to achieve a unified energy system for the european union. it doesn't matter what the source is. first, it would ensure energy security, independence and resilience. second, prices would be significantly reduced. it is estimated that if the electricity grids were merged into a single system, the european union would save €40 billion a year. at current prices, it would be even more. third, the authorisation of renewable energy projects and the connection to the grid must be accelerated, procedures simplified and bureaucratic obstacles reduced. i call on the commission, the leaders and the whole parliament to ensure that there is a centralised, even, one might say, exclusive federal control over this matter and to spare no money.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. exactly ten years ago, the european commission presented a communication on the launch of the internal energy market. i was a reporter on the case at the time. we adopted the report by a large majority. we called on the union countries to implement the market urgently, including through investment in infrastructure, especially cross-border gas connections, such as back-up connections, which did not exist before. now, a decade later, we have the biggest energy crisis in history, triggered by the russian war, and a drop in supply from 40 to nine percent. we still have plenty of gas in the european union. if we had not had crossborder connections, for example in spain or france, our citizens would be even safer, because these sensitive consumers are very well protected in the union. conclusions for the future in the context of my current work on the expansion of the eu energy market to green gases as well as hydrogen. first, security of supply and diversification are key. without that, the prices will collapse. a binding target of diversification of energy supplies from third countries is therefore necessary. and the second conclusion, there will be no diversification without infrastructure. it is therefore important to define clear objectives here to protect and operate the main hydrogen corridors in the european union, as set out in the repowereu plan. without such corridors, there will be no development of the new energy field and no energy security in europe.
madam president, 70 years ago the first ecsc assembly was held here in strasbourg, with a common desire for peace, to unite our forces around steel and coal. because yes, without energy and industry, a modern democratic society cannot thrive. it is historic, in the face of the crisis, we have to rethink our energy system, which must be interconnected, integrated and decarbonised. let us use our european public money wisely to achieve this. we are financing renewable, non-fossil energy, produced locally and regionally, with infrastructure to transport it across europe. calls on the commission to reconsider its idea of using the new hydrogen bank to finance hydrogen imports. instead of sponsoring hydrogen production halfway around the world, let's focus our efforts on our own potential first.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner simson, the full single common energy market is now an urgent condition for the european union to continue to have societies with cohesion. social cohesion is threatened and the measures taken by the member states are not sufficient. in my country, greece, more than €5 billion has already been allocated to citizens and businesses - in total more than 3.6% of gdp - in support measures, and it is not enough. the announcement of the european union's intention to set a maximum price for liquefied natural gas has brought down prices on the markets, but the very publication of the correction mechanism, just yesterday, raises many doubts about its effectiveness and implementation. the commissioner must give specific clarifications in order to make the message clear: the mechanism will be implemented in the interests of european citizens. our citizens need infrastructure interconnection projects with a combination of public and private investment. the greece-bulgaria pipeline, the fsru in alexandroupolis, the electricity interconnection between greece and egypt are top priority projects, as is the installation of renewable energy sources, reducing the barriers immediately and drastically. the european union must stand in direct solidarity with our citizens before the european crisis becomes a bomb at the foundations of our societies.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of parliament, thank you very much for that very needed and valuable discussion today and i really am happy to have the opportunity to exchange in these difficult times we are facing today. the commission has come a long way to address the current energy crisis, starting with the energy prices toolbox already last october: the gas storage and gas demand reduction regulations, repowereu, the revenue cap on cheap electricity producers and the solidarity contribution of fossil fuel producers. more recently the commission has also proposed the operationalisation of joint purchasing of gas and a return to gas benchmarks, the emergency regulation on permitting and the latest market correction mechanism. cumulatively this work is contributing to the relatively good state of our energy system. save for exceptional circumstances, we are well prepared for this winter from the energy—security perspective. the question is where do we go from here? the full focus right now is on the electricity market design. the commission has committed to deliver the electricity market design in the first quarter of 2023. this entails a public consultation with stakeholders before coming forward with a legislative proposal. in any event the commission intends to present its ideas before the end of the year to get the feedback on what we would plan to propose, to improve it and to ensure a wider agreement and support, and parliament’s view in this respect will be of course crucial. in the meantime it is important to continue the work on energy demand reduction. energy demand reduction works much better when applied in coordination with national partners, therefore the commission has launched together with the international energy agency the ‘playing my part’ initiative. it outlines simple actions that are within everyone’s reach but which can make a huge difference. we also remain committed to work with the energy efficiency hub, a global platform for collaboration on energy efficiency. the energy demand reduction continues to be crucial to keep the energy prices in check and to prepare already for the next winter. we need to ensure that the eu gas storage will not be empty by the end of this heating season. and my final point to you is that in a crisis like this we need to stand together and mutually support each other in our work. individually each member state would be in a very difficult situation, but thanks to the joint work of the european parliament, the council and commission over the years together we have developed a solid legal framework that made our energy markets stronger and more resilient. we are far better interconnected, and today all member states can rely on each other in the crisis. we need to continue this important work. only together are we strong enough to face the enemy that is trying to undermine us.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for this timely and pertinent exchange. i think many of us agree that while much has already been done both at the eu and national levels, considering the current situation much more effort is needed. the amplitude of the challenges ahead of us is clear: climate change; the need to boost our economy at a time of high inflation and potential stagnation; a difficult geopolitical scenery and the necessity to cut our dependence on russia. many, if not all of you, have emphasised once again the importance of a coordinated european solution both in terms of short-term emergency measures and medium- and long-term adjustments to the market framework. the council for its part will keep the situation on the energy markets under constant review and react swiftly. let me assure you the czech presidency is determined to do its utmost to provide effective responses to people and businesses. ladies and gentlemen, the eu has always shown great resilience and political unity when facing difficult situations. i think that this time it will not be any different. we put in place a set of tools that already proved successful, lowering significantly the volatility of energy prices and enhancing security of supply. a further integrated energy market will prove efficient and stronger when undergoing shocks, and will be a useful tool in the fight against climate change.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. europe is in deep crisis due to unbearable energy prices industries are crumbling, the economy is heading for recession, living standards are falling. the reason is clear: the poorly designed sanctions policy demanded by the left and the bureaucrats in brussels. people pay the price for that every day. the first step in the solution must be a radical overhaul of the sanctions. we can't risk the livelihoods of families, we can't leave our companies to their fate. we must pursue policies that protect jobs and the competitiveness of european industry. the european union is a key player in the global economy. that's why it's unacceptable that in this grave situation the left is demanding more and more sanctions. it is time for those affected to admit that the sanctions policy has failed and that people and companies need to be helped.
in writing. one of the main objectives of the european union's energy policy in the current economic crisis caused by the ongoing war should be to create a common internal market in electricity. moreover, the main objective of this policy should be to limit the negative impact of electricity prices on the average person and households most affected by price increases. it is also important to ensure the security of energy supply, which is a challenge for many european countries today. the creation of a common internal market in electricity in the eu is important in particular because of the potential to reduce electricity prices, which represent a large share of variable costs in many industries. the actions taken to create this market should therefore help to safeguard the eu's economic position, which is becoming increasingly difficult for non-eu economies to compete with. the european commission has assessed that the degree of integration of the eu electricity market is insufficient. the european commission considers that this was mainly due to two factors: the low level of cross-border electricity trade and the persistence of large electricity price differences between eu member states' markets. the commission should therefore focus on facilitating cross-border electricity trade and ensuring a stable supply of energy in all countries.
the european union has not hesitated to support the ukrainian people whose sovereignty and security have been barbarously attacked by the russian federation. there is no war without costs, but these should not be blamed on the most vulnerable. a number of measures of a solidarity and collaborative nature have been implemented, but more needs to be done. in a public statement, which i endorse, the socialist and democratic group has proposed lines of action to make the single energy market more interconnected and transparent, allowing better price controls and ensuring the competitiveness of companies. a cap on the import price of gas should be applied and the price of gas should be disconnected from the formation of the price of electricity, allowing this price to be regulated until the market rules are revised. the commission also proposes a joint demand model to achieve better prices and greater diversification of suppliers, and advocates investment in strengthening electricity interconnections and green corridors. these measures pave the way for continued support for the ukrainian people, while at the same time ensuring social justice and business competitiveness in the union.
dear colleagues, i wanted to come in at this stage because i know how personal this debate is to so many of us here and around our member states. i just want to say: stop killing women, stop beating women, stop abusing women.
in malta yesterday, bernice cassar, a 40-year-old mother of two young children, was killed by shots that went through the windscreen of her car. this is just one example of the abuse and murder of women in europe, simply because they are women. for months, bernice cried out for help, cried out for protection, but neither help nor protection ever came. she was left alone.
stop killing women. no more excuses. protect women. we need action now. we need proper protection frameworks. we need more convictions of those who prey on females. and we need to end the remaining institutional blindness to the endemic violence against women. we need the urgent ratification of the istanbul convention in all member states. bernice should have arrived at work yesterday. she should have been able to go home and play with her children. she should not have been forced to live in fear. she should have been safe. she should have been free from torment. she should not have been killed. none of the horrific examples of violence against women we are forced to endure should take place in our europe. we are not talking about victims: these are our fallen warriors. women deserve to live free from fear everywhere. stop killing women.
we now come to the debate on the council and commission statements on the elimination of violence against women (2022/2951 (rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you very much for this opportunity on the occasion of the soon coming international day for the elimination of violence against women to discuss progress made at eu level on different initiatives. violence has no place in a civilised society in the 21st century, yet the problem persists in europe. indeed, we know that in some cases domestic violence even increased during the covid pandemic when people were confined to their homes. meanwhile, new forms of violence, including online violence, have created a need for effective responses. but not only in europe: across the world women and girls suffer from sexual and gender-based violence including conflict-related sexual violence offline and online. armed conflicts continue to have a disproportionate effect on women and girls worldwide, including in afghanistan, colombia, ethiopia, myanmar, sudan, syria, ukraine and yemen. the ongoing violent crackdown in iran against protesters, including women and children, is yet another reminder of the urgency of our work for the cause of gender equality and human rights. coming back to our work, let me refer to the most recent steps taken in the council in this regard. in the first place this regards the istanbul convention. following the recent court of justice opinion 1/19, the council has been working on the amendments needed to reflect the appropriate legal basis as decided by the court. secondly, the council is currently analysing the proposal for a directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence, which aims to reinforce the protection of women and step up the fight against violence against women by criminalising a series of behaviours and strengthening the rights of the victims. during both the french and czech presidencies, intensive work has taken place which enabled the completion of the first reading of the proposal. the work on the proposal will continue during the terms of the incoming presidency with a view to the swiftest possible progress. thirdly, our debate today is also an opportunity to recall the long—standing cooperation between the european parliament and the council in the field of gender equality more generally. following the agreement on the directive on improving the gender balance among directors of listed companies reached between the council and the parliament in june, we can now finally proceed with the formal signature of this important instrument. all aspects of gender equality are inter-related. by making sure that board members are selected through a procedure that is transparent and fair, we have decisive action against the problem of vertical segregation. this is part of our long campaign to empower women and to ensure real equality. finally, for many years the eu has been actively engaged with its partners to advance and implement the united nation’s women, peace and security agenda. the pillars of this agenda – participation, protection, prevention, and relief and recovery – are intrinsically linked. this was also reflected in the council conclusions on women, peace and security, adopted in a timely manner on 14 november 2022. let me say once more that the european parliament and the council share the same concern about the persistent violence against women and are close allies in this struggle.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, we mark the international day for the elimination of violence against women on 25 november annually, as violence against women and girls remains a pervasive violation of human rights around the world. it would have been good had there been more men in this chamber, because here it seems i will be speaking to the converted. yesterday in my home country, as you heard from the president earlier, bernice cassar was killed in broad daylight on her way to work as a result of three gunshots hitting her face and her chest. at this stage, the only suspect in this murder is her estranged husband. and we all know about tragedies like this one, as they are happening daily across europe and around the world. despite their frequency, however, they remain one of the least prosecuted forms of crime, and citizens can become desensitised unless we speak up and make sure that women stop being murdered in silence. addressing this matter with due attention is a prerequisite to tackle gender—based discrimination, make progress on women’s rights and equality, and safeguard the common values of the union, as well as to advance our democracy. i thank this house for being a strong ally in keeping the eradication of violence against women and girls high on the eu political agenda. since the adoption of the gender equality strategy, we have been working to transform our political commitments into concrete and meaningful action. all our measures have been driven by the aim of making a difference in the lives of diverse women and girls, in particular of those facing gender—based violence and domestic violence. in march, the commission adopted a legislative proposal to combat all forms of violence against women and domestic violence. the proposal covers the criminalisation of certain offences amounting to violence against women, the protection of support and access to justice for victims of violence against women and domestic violence and the prevention of such forms of violence. it is modelled on the council of europe’s istanbul convention, which has proven to be a comprehensive legal instrument in this domain, but which sadly has not been ratified yet by the european union. the proposal calls on strengthening the work of and support for the different services and practitioners who are devoting their professional lives to supporting victims. in this spirit, i will mark the international day for the elimination of violence against women by standing together with victims and survivors while calling for a bigger push to end this violation of human rights. i will visit the care centre for sexual violence in brussels, which addresses gender—based violence and provides services ranging from medical and psychological care to help from the judicial and police department, as well as support and follow—up brought together in one place. i will meet different stakeholders involved in the process, all of whom are specifically trained to work with and offer specialised support to victims. in the context of this day, the commission is adopting and implementing a decision to set up a european uniform number for a dedicated helpline for victims of violence against women and domestic violence, as announced in the proposal. looking further ahead and complementing our legislative proposal, we will present in the coming months a recommendation to prevent and combat harmful practices against women and girls. we will encourage member states to take a number of actions to address in an effective way female genital mutilation, forced and child marriages, honour—related violence, forced abortion and forced sterilisation and other harmful practices that affect mainly women and girls.we cannot achieve the aim of eliminating violence against women alone. we are therefore also cooperating with key stakeholders beyond our borders. in the g7 setting, the eu contributed to the strengthening of the accountability of the leaders’ political commitment and to ensure gender—mainstreaming is a cross—sectoral principle in the g7 activities. we also continue to be fully engaged as co-leaders of the generation equality forum action coalition on gender—based violence and un women. in this framework we are working with organisations from every part of society to catalyse progress, advocate for change and take action together. let us continue to stay together to fight violence against women and domestic violence.
thank you very much, commissioner, for your clear words and for your work.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, every year on the occasion of the international day for the elimination of violence against women, we look at the picture of the phenomenon in the european union and throughout the world. gender-based violence online and offline is deeply rooted in the structural inequalities of society and remains silent as a brutal violation of human rights. in the current digital age, citizens' communication, transactions and interactions in anonymous digital spaces have highlighted the crime of online gender-based violence, which is constantly taking on uncontrolled dimensions, considering that, by way of example, one in ten women have experienced harassment by the age of fifteen, while one in five young women in the union aged eighteen to nineteen report online sexual harassment. i am not, of course, referring to the frequent femicides which are, i think you all agree, the modern scourge of humanity. the committee on women's rights and gender equality and i personally as vice-president urged the european commission to include gender-based violence as a major crime under union law and to draw up a protocol to support victims, particularly in times of crisis. my dear colleagues, we are already late. the commission has put forward a new legislative proposal and it must be completed immediately. we must respond to the demands of all european citizens. i think we can all agree that gender-based violence is not only an affront to the principles and values of the european union, but is also a major human rights and cultural issue.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, we are here again, one more 25 november, to commemorate the international day for the elimination of violence against women. we must point out that, one more year, the victims have increased. and those who deny the existence of gender violence are also increasing. today it is necessary to say that gender violence exists because it is based on structural causes of discrimination against women. victims have gender. the victims have names. in my country, since the previous debate in this gallery, specifically on gender-based violence, there have been four more victims. let me name them: irina, 38, murdered with her 6-year-old daughter mariya; leslie, 69, murdered with more than 20 stabs; imane, 30, murdered in front of one of her children; adoration, 27, beheaded. let me tell the council that in the face of this tragedy it is a shame that you have not ratified the istanbul convention. let me say that we need to amend the treaties to introduce gender-based violence as a european crime. all women have a message to be given by this parliament today. we're with them. you can get out of the violence.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting a report on the situation of women in the european union. teresa rodriguez was a young woman of 23 years, with many dreams, with illusions and with projects. teresa lived in my city, valladolid. and he went to belgium. she went to brussels to work as a nurse, with many projects, with many illusions, with many dreams. projects, dreams and illusions that have been truncated when his ex-partner, a sexist murderer, traveled to belgium and murdered teresa. this is a reality. gender-based violence knows no borders. the murderous machistas find no barrier to their way. and there are women in europe and in the world who are killed simply for being women. teresa is not just another number. teresa's life was cut short and she has left behind a father, a brother, family and friends devastated by this terrible reality. and that family wanted us to talk about teresa rodriguez today, and that's why the commitment of all of us here has to be to accompany and follow the request of teresa's family, who tells us: don't stop working on this. let us do and end gender violence, let us end the machismo that kills and let us not allow any more theresa's in europe. it is essential to have european legislation that can determine who is a victim of gender-based violence, because teresa is as much a victim in spain as in belgium or poland. and we need european legislation that can protect all women, wherever they live, wherever they are: a european directive against gender-based violence that can prevent these situations. we must be able to work in the field of training, education, prevention... we must not allow it to stand idly by. we cannot resign ourselves to thinking that this is a reality that we cannot change, because it is in our hands to change it. we have a great responsibility. and let me end by saying that we have a great moral obligation today to name those numbers; to understand that behind each of those women are tragic realities, that we cannot allow those lives, those dreams, those projects to be cut short. teresa deserves to be kept working so that there are no more young women like her. we have a great responsibility. let's not give up. let's get to work. it's in our hands.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, colleagues, in patriarchal societies, violence against women has always been widespread. it is not only based on the belief that women matter less, it is actually based on the assumption that women are not fully equal and self—determined human beings, that they somehow need to be disciplined to be controlled. we are battered. we are raped. we are abused. our choices are being restricted because we do not matter enough. but also because patriarchy tells us that we had to, that we have to be kept in check. that includes also the denial of our right to choose over our own bodies. forcing a woman to go through with a pregnancy against her own will is a form of violence against women. that is true for the ten—year—old rape victim who had to travel from ohio to indiana to get an abortion. that is true for the 31—year—old savita, who died in ireland in 2012 after being denied abortion care when she was miscarrying. and that is also true for already six women who died in poland after not receiving very much needed abortion care because of the inhumane de facto abortion ban. whenever a woman dies because she did not receive the abortion care she needed to be saved, society sends a message to all of us that even in moments of absolute vulnerability, they will not help us because our lives do not matter enough. they will actually let us die. they will let us die because a fundamentalist ideology matters more than our lives. honestly, i do not want to live in a society like this, and definitely i do not want to get pregnant in a society like this. so, colleagues, let us end all forms of violence against women. let us end these inhumane abortion bans.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, council, ladies and gentlemen, violence is a drama we all want to end, of course. criminal laws must be effective in prosecuting crime and protecting society. on october 7th, the so-called "only yes is yes" law came into force in spain, which erases the distinction between rape and sexual abuse, altering the range of penalties and reducing their duration. this responds to the mentality of being very tough on the male in general, but very soft on the more dangerous criminals for women. it is not the first time we suffer the unjust consequences of ideological laws. if you want to protect us, you should make sure that the real aggressors are far away from their victims. i call on political groups that collaborate with gender ideology to wake up and see the perversity of the concept of 'gender violence' and its consequences by polluting the laws. they're putting us in the man and the woman game and not fighting crime. you've seen the results. let's change the strategy.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 25 november is a reminder that visible and invisible violence against women remains one of the most widespread violations of human rights in the world. the dramatic stories reported in the daily news awaken our consciousness about violent and discriminatory behaviour that has physical, psychological and economic consequences, affecting full and equal participation in society. the european union must take all the legislative, social and cultural measures necessary to enable women to defend themselves, to overcome their fear of reporting, of being judged and, above all, of being left alone. it is intolerable that some member states still refuse to ratify and implement the istanbul convention. strengthening protection and assistance for victims by prosecuting perpetrators is only one aspect of the battle to be fought. we need to stop violence before it occurs, with prevention policies that address the structural causes of the phenomenon and promote effective gender equality.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i really wanted to once again congratulate you on the work you have done, madam commissioner, on this proposal for a directive which is extremely important for all of us. in france, 118 women have died since the beginning of the year as a result of beating by their husbands or partners. it's an absolutely appalling situation. i also wanted to tell you that i will be particularly emphatic on the subject of violence against women in the workplace, since we are going to be working on it in the committee on employment and social affairs. this seems to me a major point, because how can women break through the glass ceiling if they are not safe in their workplace, where they spend hours? finally, i wanted to tell you that i had the chance last week to meet the director of programmes at the united nations, un women, on gender equality and that the world expects a lot from us, from europe, from our proposals on combating violence against women. and, mr minister, we also expect a lot from your presidency to move the subject forward.
madam president, madam commissioner, article 36 of the istanbul convention: 'parties shall take the necessary legislative or other measures to establish as a criminal offence the intentional commission of: consent must be given voluntarily as an expression of the individual's free will considered in the context of the surrounding conditions. only yes is yes. let us do our utmost to ensure that these principles are reflected in the criminal codes of all the member states. because some of them were written in a sentence that observed exultation and rejoicing in the victim of a gang rape, a context, as anyone can imagine, ideal for the expression of free will. and let us assume that, no matter how much legislation is passed, as long as stereotypes and prejudices are rampant in the consciences of many, they will continue to believe that, to their yes, there is no no. disarming these mental schemes is the first priority to end violence against women.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. one in three women in the european union experiences violence in her lifetime. i am one of them, one of 62 million women in the european union and we haven't looked at the rest of the world. the difference is that 62 million women today do not have the opportunity to speak in this parliament and to fight for action against violence against women in this place. that is why we are aware of this responsibility here today. violence against women is a structural problem; it 's a problem of patriarchy . they're not isolated cases, they're not unfortunate circumstances, they're not acts of jealousy or relationship. do you know how many women are not believed after experiencing violence? how often is there a lack of seriousness, empathy or legal framework? i'm tired of us trying to fight violence against women. i'm tired of being fed lip service. the fight against violence against women means creating legal bases that do not allow for discussion; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the european union is a party to the european convention on human rights, which is a fundamental instrument of the european union's development policy.
madam president, commissioner, mr minister, in europe, seven women die every day from the blows of their partner or ex-partner. it's a real scourge. to eradicate it, we must take as a model the spanish fight against violence against women. the future european directive we are working on must be exclusively focused on the protection of women and children who are victims. let's not scatter. let us avoid ideological positions and work together on four key areas: prevention, with large-scale awareness campaigns, especially for the youngest; support, with the creation throughout europe of a single telephone number and one-stop shops for comprehensive care of victims with trained staff, police officers and specialised magistrates; protection of women and children victims, with the rapid issuing of protection orders, high-risk telephones and restraint bracelets throughout europe; finally, harmonized penalties. what is considered rape or forced marriage in one member state must also be considered rape or forced marriage in the neighbouring state and punishable on common grounds. let's get moving, because it's an emergency.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, minister, colleagues, president zelensky's appeal is unequivocal. to keep ukraine from collapsing, it needs 3 to 4 billion euros a month. without this money, all public services, from hospitals to schools, are at risk of disappearing. it is the infrastructure destroyed by russian bombs - bridges, roads, electricity grid, sewage treatment plants - that cannot be repaired for lack of funds. in short, the whole country would be in blackout, human lives in danger, economic and administrative life blocked. ladies and gentlemen, if the ukrainians are not supported, the consequences will be serious. they will be serious not only and above all for the ukrainians, but also for the rest of europe. because an abandoned ukraine is a strengthened russia, it is a weakened european union. so i turn here to the far right, to the national assembly and its pro-putin friends. if you vote against or even abstain on this €18 billion aid, never say again that you are for the freedom of nations.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, after the failure of cop 27 on climate, mainly linked to the exorbitant and out-of-the-box demands of the european union, the major leaders will meet in canada for cop 15 on biodiversity. while the governments are telling us about the efforts needed to curb the rapid deterioration of our biodiversity, we are told that a large number of heads of state will not be present in montreal. the protection of our environment therefore ends in geopolitical disputes. but we should not worry, because the lobbies will be there, like greenpeace, for example, which is financed by the wind turbine lobby, although we know that they are inefficient and have an impact on our environment. the european union believes that our citizens must bear the burden of climate change alone. across the atlantic, the us powers put their economies first, while china and russia clearly have other priorities. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full role in the world economy. as with cop 27, the millions invested in this conference would have been much more useful to professionals in our territory.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, we have now entered what is commonly called the sixth mass extinction of species on earth. the fifth, the previous one, is the one that led to the extinction of the dinosaurs. for several years, the climate change crisis has overshadowed - if i may say so - the awareness of the ongoing biodiversity crisis. in fact, as you pointed out, mr commissioner, these two crises are linked. these two crises, climate change and biodiversity, are feeding off each other. so on climate change, i was going to say it's not complicated. when you see the difficulties we have to move forward, it's actually complicated. but we know the causes and we know the consequences. we can do something about biodiversity. it is very complicated and requires us to mobilise even more. a few years ago, at the invitation of the european commission, i attended a conference called hope. i like to call it that because it says it all: "healthy oceans" "productive ecosystems". well, i think that by thinking in this way, by putting ourselves in a win-win situation, by understanding that the development of our activities, the development of humanity can and must be done in a healthy environment, we understand that we are in a situation where we have to move forward on this issue of biodiversity. as you said, commissioner, we must also ensure that indigenous peoples, who will be the first to benefit if we make efforts, are included. this is the aarhus convention to which we are committed. we have made the bet, through mrs von der leyen, that the european union would be the territory in the world that is most advanced in this respect. well, commissioner, we are counting on you in montreal to carry this message and we have full confidence in you.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a million species are at risk of extinction, 70% of wild animals have already disappeared since 1970. we must understand that we are one with the living and to destroy it is to destroy ourselves. it is therefore absolutely imperative that we finally ratify an agreement on biodiversity. but i want to draw attention to two points. first, nature has never been protected by violating human rights. the history of europe is marked by the plundering and enslavement of peoples, who sometimes hypocritically took the protection of nature as a pretext. it must never happen again. secondly, there is an urgent need to protect the living from appropriation, from financialisation and, ultimately, from destruction. the term nature-based solutions is now used to continue this logic of hoarding and to keep open the possibility of destruction through a securitization market. we must resist this liberal logic. protecting nature means first recognising its rights and our duties towards it. let's finally take this road.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the family is in danger. it is attacked from all sides by those who wish to impose their ideological vision on us. the rights of the child are in danger, violated by the whims of these same ideologues who want to deprive children of their origins, even to the point of denying them. i am referring here to sarah, the child we are talking about, and her family. sarah was born in spain. she has a mother from gibraltar and a mother from bulgaria. bulgaria, in particular, has refused to transcribe her birth certificate for several years, despite a ruling by the court of justice of the european union. sarah is three. she has no nationality. she has never been able to leave the country where she was born and she has never been able to see her grandparents, who are too old to travel. sarah is the victim of a relentless campaign by self-proclaimed family ideologues. so here, we're not gonna have to make a mistake. it's been proven that the true defenders of the family are us. the real defenders of children's rights are us. then, commissioner, we are counting on you. don't let us down. you're gonna have to pass this bill on mutual recognition of parentage. be on the side of the family, be on the side of the children.
mr president, in fact, by means of this regulation, the commission simply wants to impose on all the member states a change which is not in any way within its competence: to decide on the definition of the family, on the recognition of parentage. no treaty has given this responsibility, no treaty has given this power to the european institutions. respect for the rule of law is perhaps first and foremost respect for our democracies and our own treaties. this would be tantamount to forcing all our countries to recognise surrogacy. because yes, ladies and gentlemen, behind all the fine words we've exchanged tonight, there is actually an industry that profits by exploiting the most vulnerable women. what strange progressive attitude is there that justifies the worst of regressions, that of making human life the subject of a commercial contract once again? yes, behind all this, as you said, there are children. and i am very surprised, colleagues, that you all here complained to sarah about not having a passport. i'm sorry sarah doesn't have a dad.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, egypt has just organised cop27 in a brilliant way. of course, the content of the discussions is subject to much political debate. but we can agree on one thing: cairo has done it perfectly. our parliament spends its time teaching the whole planet ecological lessons. we could at least have used this debate as an opportunity to congratulate egypt and its people. but the opportunity was too good. the opportunity was too good to take up the discourse of the associations which did not digest the ousting of the muslim brotherhood from power. the opportunity was too good to serve soup to the soros network, which attacks france for its privileged relationship with cairo. it is fascinating to note the difference in treatment between egypt and qatar in this parliament. qatar has been involved in destabilizing the entire middle east. he supported some of the bloodiest islamist rebellions in history. it continues to host the most fundamentalist preachers in the arab world. the european parliament will soon be presenting a resolution which forgives him for everything and congratulates him on many points. president al-sisi's egypt is making progress on religious freedom, fighting islamism on its own soil, influencing its neighbors to resist jihadists. the european parliament is presenting a resolution in terms that are as unjust as they are violent against it. once again, the arab world will read these initiatives as a model of the duplicity and hypocrisy of the european union. once again, the rest of the world will wonder how europe can be so wrong in its choice of regional partners. once again, citizens of the member states will be asking a legitimate question: why such submission to qatar in europe, when this country is funding associations and media that interfere in public life? of course, we must encourage egypt to continue its human and economic progress, to modernise its infrastructure and to continue its involvement in the fight against illegal immigration and above all to have a courageous policy against terrorism. we must be on his side.
mr president, the recovery of wolf populations in europe is posing major environmental and agricultural challenges, both to wildlife and, above all, to the cattle of farmers, which are suffering major damage. the national authorities and the european authorities must respond immediately. the conservation status of the wolf already justifies a review of its protection level. in addition, both the european commission and the governments of the member states should support those regions where coexistence between wolves and farmers is becoming increasingly difficult. in my country, spain, the main regions affected are galicia, castile and león, asturias and cantabria. unfortunately, the spanish government, far from contributing to the solution, has indiscriminately banned the extraction of wolves throughout the country. the spanish government must rectify this and allow active management of the wolf. it would also be intolerable and incomprehensible for a region like galicia, the second spanish region with the most wolves, to be excluded from the 20 million euro fund to mitigate the damage caused by wolves.
mr president, while we are very carefully weighing our words in an attempt to reconcile the irreconcilable, more and more farmers throughout europe feel cornered, ignored, misunderstood. i want to pay tribute to them for all the hard work they do and the courage they have. their deep distress should be a warning to us. can we protect the wolf and the livestock at the same time? maybe, but certainly not everywhere. whatever means are used, whatever protections and compensations are offered, there are areas where cohabitation will remain impossible. let's face it, you know? the debate in the plenary today at least shows that we are not blind to this. but we must have more political courage. in very practical terms, we must immediately give more flexibility to the regulation so that the member states can act more effectively. and action does not mean counting the carcasses of sheep and cows. action means targeted killing of predators with destructive behaviors.
mr president, the question of the coexistence of wolves and human activities is a very complex one and increasing the number of wolves killed each year is not the solution. in france, the government has authorized the killing of 174 wolves in 2022. this is huge! and with what result? france is the country that kills the most, but has the least results. instead of killing wolves, we should be accompanying the herders. experiments involving sheepdogs such as the duck have been carried out in my area and have shown very positive results, significantly reducing the number of attacks. the farmers are asking, for example, that the areas where purchases of ducks are subsidised be extended to the whole territory. so let's get out of the cartoon and really take action to live with the wolf.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, dear rapporteur martina dlabajová, the digital transition is one of the pillars of the european union's strategy for the next decade. the competitiveness of our economy will depend to a large extent on its success. this is a race we are lagging behind in some countries, like the united states. to recover we need to invest heavily in infrastructure, in the modernisation of businesses, industry and public services, in the data economy, in a strong digital internal market, in education and training, both for staff and the general population, in scientific research and innovation. the european union's assertiveness will come through its commitment to emerging technologies such as quantum computing. we must be able to create the conditions for these technologies to be developed and produced in europe. a good example of the way forward are the partnerships in the horizon europe framework programme, covering topics such as digital core technologies and integrated circuits, high performance computing and 5g and 6g networks. this script for the digital decade, with its ambitious targets, will only be realised if we meet all these conditions.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today, for the first time, we are setting out clear steps to collectively make our european digital ambition a reality. this ambition is that of a digital world built around people, which respects fundamental rights. a world of innovation, accessible to all. a world based on enhanced skills across the european territory. ladies and gentlemen, if we are to make this digital revolution a success, we must meet two imperatives. the first imperative: the digitisation of our societies must go hand in hand with our climate commitments. we need sustainable infrastructure and a greener digital world. but we also need to develop digital technologies that will reduce our emissions in agriculture, energy and transport. second imperative: we know that we will need substantial investments if we are to achieve our 2030 targets. this effort should be carried out in a fair way between the main digital actors involved. that's an important point. this is stated in the european declaration on digital rights and principles for the digital decade. we shall have the opportunity to debate this very broadly.
madam president, thank you to the rapporteur, thank you, commissioner, for being here with us. there is a blind spot in this text: for me, this is the sustainable question and this is the green question. the digital decade, it takes us to 2030. we have climate targets for 2030. and there's nothing in that text that frames what we decide to implement as the infrastructure to be able to meet those goals. when we talk about digital development, there is one question we don't ask. however, when we want to define social and environmental criteria, we do impact studies. here, for digital, impact studies are optional. the digital issue is an infrastructure issue. these infrastructures, they lead to uses. any coherent strategy for an economic powerhouse such as ours should be conditioned by the question of what the real needs are. the text stipulates that 90% of smes should be digital intensive. why would you do that? where do these figures come from? why is there not a more sober, more resilient analysis of digital design? i mean that in the world we live in, the european union must be a political power of strategy and stabilization. today, there are two dominant digital models in the world: the chinese one - we obviously don't want to look like them - and the american gafam one - and i think we shouldn't look like them either. what is the european alternative model in this area? from the beginning, we have been told that digital technology is the natural ally of the ecological transition. all the studies, all the studies that exist on the ecological impact of digital technology show just the opposite. i hope we will be clear-headed in this area. not all technology is necessarily good in itself. it is the political power that decides to ensure that technological innovation serves the common good. i hope that in the weeks, months and years to come, our institution will ensure that this is the case for digital.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not going to let you do this. a pleasure! digitalisation is increasingly taking place in our societies, in our daily lives and in our economies. but even though digitisation has already changed a lot of things in our lives, we must dare to go even further. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data interchange systems. that is why i am pleased with the ambitious objectives of the programme. if the eu is to be at the forefront of the digital transformation, and i believe that it must be, we need more digital experts, the internet for all, and more businesses and public services using digital solutions. i myself come from one of the most digitised countries in the world, and therefore i know the reverse of the medal. some people will lose their jobs when they become automated, and some people will lack the digital skills to be able to participate. that is why it is also important that we ensure that no one is left on the platform. we must not leave anyone behind in the digital age, and we must therefore make a special effort to ensure this. we need to make sure that those who lose their jobs are trained, and we need to make sure that people are given the skills to be part of the digitisation. maybe even offer you access to public services without these skills. so we need to be more digital, while protecting those who are hard to get along with. that is the precondition for our success in the european union.
madam president, dear colleagues, commissioner, as the energy and economic crisis continue to loom large, there is a growing risk that many european citizens and companies will fall behind and not reap the benefits of the digital transformation. to accelerate the pace of digital innovation and adoption, it is crucial that we match the 2030 target with a set of investments that will help close the digital divide and keep our ambitions high. first, we need to invest in people and education so that our citizens have the digital skills necessary to actively participate in the digital society. the digital decade must be inclusive and make digital technology work for people and for businesses. second, the quality, access and transparency of public services through digitalisation should be improved and modernised across the eu. the point is not to win the digital race. the point is to develop and safeguard our societies.
madam president, commissioner, i am glad that we are discussing this subject and this issue, digitisation. of course, we know the saying that goes with everything: "the road to hell is paved with good intentions". it is very important and i am glad you have spoken, commissioner, that it is not enough to invest in technology alone, but we also need to increase skills, because now that we are talking, there are entire geographical areas, especially in rural areas, where we have no infrastructure, no telephone signal, what digitalization to talk about? and the skills need to be increased along with the investment, because otherwise it would be a waste if we invest in digitization, but we don't have the skills for access. i also believe in the positive effects of digitisation, in the good effects of integrating people with disabilities, but i also believe very strongly that investments should be targeted to geographical areas, to areas where we still have problems with skills and infrastructure. that is why i believe that digitisation goes hand in hand with investment and goes hand in hand with the education and digital skills of all citizens in the internal market.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you sincerely for the very enriching debate we have had today. we are all aware of the need to act with urgency and determination to build the digital decade. you have already supported us on a number of important issues which are essential for our digital and information space on a continental scale. many others are under discussion, as you know. it is therefore essential that we, as policy-makers, do our utmost to ensure that the transformation under way meets the needs and expectations of all our citizens, and of course our businesses, large and small. it is time to overcome the inequalities between those who benefit from this transformation and the rest, as many of you have mentioned. affirming our identity and a european model that reflects our values in a digital world is indeed becoming a key challenge for us, but also on a continental and global scale. this is why the digital decade action agenda is so important. it's our roadmap to drive digital transition for our citizens, governments, businesses. it is also crucial to reduce our dependence on technology and avoid creating new ones in a world that is going to become increasingly complex, we know. the novelty of this action programme is above all that it sets - as you rightly recalled, both the parties and you, madam rapporteur, of course - quantitative objectives to be achieved and, in so doing, it commits the member states to a new governance. i would like to remind the house, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission will of course play its full part in implementing this programme as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your constructive comments, opinions and support. the road to the digital decade will not be easy. there will be bumps, and often there will be obstacles that we will have to jump over or climb over. still, i'm glad we went for it. thank you to the european commission, thank you to the member states for finding a common vision of what this path should look like. the french presidency, which laid the foundations, and the czech presidency, which followed up and successfully concluded the negotiations, deserve our thanks. thank you also to all the shadow reporters and all our teams. i would like to say once again that we have been able to agree with the commission and the council on what needs to be monitored to know whether the digital decade is succeeding or not. information and learning from past mistakes are the cornerstones of progress, and i look forward to the annual state of the digital decade report. the digital decade is a policy agenda with specific objectives and is set to lead and guide countries in how to successfully meet these objectives. it is a common strategy and it is in everyone's interest to follow it. i believe that with your help, i have found the right mix to achieve full digitization by 2030. let us not forget that all the time we are talking about 20 million ict experts, digital skills for more than 360 million europeans, the provision of millions of high-speed internet connections across the eu, the creation of 10 000 climate-neutral, highly secure edge nodes, the first quantum accelerated computer, the use of cloud services, artificial intelligence, the processing of big data by three quarters of eu businesses or the full digitalisation of public administration and healthcare. all in just eight years. now, this may still sound like science fiction or fairy tale to you, but i believe that by the year 2030, it will be proven that we did everything right. now it's up to you and your vote. thank you for your attention, and i look forward to the outcome of today's vote.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 24 november 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the 'digital decade' programme, if successfully implemented, could, according to current estimates, contribute to an additional €2.8 trillion across the union. if the implementation of digital technologies in poland is accelerated and the eu plan is implemented, an additional pln 491 billion in gdp can be achieved by 2030. although most europeans have basic digital skills, there are still significant differences between countries the percentage of the population with at least basic it skills varies from 29% to 79%. in order to achieve the programme's target of 80% of the population having basic digital skills by 2030, it is necessary to accelerate the process of digital education and infrastructure development. the overall rate of uptake of digital basic skills has only increased by 4% to 5% over the last five years, putting in question objectives such as the growth of enterprises that are highly digital cloud-based or the digitalisation of public services. i am pleased with the compromise reached by the ep and the eu council. in particular, the importance of the mechanism for managing their implementation and monitoring the results, which is designed to avoid burdens for member states' public administrations, should be emphasised. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress of the national digital roadmaps in the member states, in particular on the progress of the implementation of the national digital roadmaps.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the european year of youth 2022 legacy (2022/2953 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of my colleague, mariya gabriel, i would like to share with you the commission's final preliminary observations on the outcome of the year of youth 2022. the european year of youth had a clear objective: to put young people at the centre, to listen to what they have to say and to act accordingly, by strengthening their skills so that they can develop their ideas and, above all, by preparing them to participate in political debates. this has enabled more young people to mobilise, to get involved at political level as well, to get involved and to make their peers aware of the opportunities offered by the european union. according to the organisers of the various activities, more than 150 million european citizens have been made aware of the problem. these opportunities have opened up new channels for young people to voice their views, to engage in policy-making at different levels and thus to influence its content. but beyond this, it is now time to exchange and reflect on what has worked well and what can be developed further. the commission has thus started a process of taking stock of the results achieved and our debate today is contributing to this process. feedback will be received from the national coordinators of the european youth year, from the youth actors themselves and from young people, and will form part of the year implementation report which will then be sent to the co-legislators before the end of 2023. all these reflections will also feed into the mid-term evaluation by the end of 2023 of the union's youth strategy for 2019-2027, our long-term common plan to mobilise and connect young people by empowering them to act. we have already seen that the european year of youth has brought about a number of major achievements. first, on 28 and 29 october, the halls of the european parliament in brussels were filled with the voices of more than 1 300 young activists who took part in the 'levelup! youth boot camp' conference. these young people developed their skills through workshops and networking events. the event itself resonated, if i may say so, on social media, with almost 40 000 young people from all over europe demonstrating and communicating together. that's the ripple effect we wanted to create. moreover, more than 8 000 other activities are to be listed on the european youth portal. while the majority of these activities took place in face-to-face or hybrid formats, the mobilisation of social networks and online campaigns has enabled millions of young people across the union to be reached. the year saw new partnerships and new connections, including within the commission. for example, the new social automation initiative, known as alma, orientation, learning, mastery, success, under the european social fund plus. it aims to help disadvantaged young people to integrate into the labour market and society of their home country, for example following work or other experience in another member state. we also continued to strengthen existing initiatives with the very popular european coding week to ensure equal access to digital skills for all children, regardless of their economic background or income. two important initiatives in the field of research and innovation also deserve to be highlighted. as part of the european science cities programme, leiden hosted the 33rd european young scientists competition, bringing together 132 young, very bright minds, selected from over 65 000 participants from all over the world. we have also launched a new european research infrastructure called growing up in digital europe eurocohort, which will provide a single source of high-quality and reliable statistical data to support the development of social policies and improve the well-being of children, young people and their families across europe. the commission has also launched new initiatives that give young people opportunities and spaces to express themselves, to make their visions and ideas heard, to influence and inspire their peers and society at large. these include the youth voices platform, the pool of young european journalists, policy dialogues with commissioners and the various youth ambassadors' networks. finally, new partnerships and links have been established between the institutions of the european union, the member states and youth organisations. within the european commission we are currently considering how to continue cooperation with the group of national coordinators of the european year of youth as well as with the national contact points and stakeholders. in addition to the representatives appointed by the member states, more than 120 youth actors were part of this group. representatives of the european parliament, the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee were also part of this network. and i want to make it clear that this collaboration has been extremely valuable.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european year of youth was the right initiative at the right time, because in the corona pandemic, young people showed a special solidarity. it was only fitting that we made them our priority in 2022. but i think we could have done even better by communicating more deeply, down to the bottom. many young people did not even know that we had a european year of youth. that is something that urgently needs to be improved. we should have involved them more from the start, and not just in the brussels bubble, but also at the grassroots level. we have learned a lot from the exchanges with the young people this year: what motivates them, what their aspirations are in politics. but now it's more about what we do with it. this year cannot be a bonfire that goes out on december 31. it has to have a long-term legacy, because we need real political participation of young people, and we also owe them tangible outputs. we made a promise here last year that the european year of youth would not be just a nice to have, and now is our chance to prove that we mean it. let us take the input of young people and create structures for better participation! • issues such as youth participation and better participation for example a youth test, a structured dialogue with young people , issues such as sustainable climate and environment policy, mental health, jobs and skills and thanking the commission for next year being the european year of skills; this is another aspect that the young people have brought to the fore, and the issue of digitisation: these were the big five that we have to follow in the future. these were the issues that were brought up again and again at the eye event, but also at many, many other youth events here. let us continue to work with the younger generation in the coming years, and not over the heads of the young people. i think the most important thing we can achieve this year is to work with the young people.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, yes, it was a good idea to make 2022 the european year of youth. i defended this idea when it was put forward by president von der leyen. we were in the middle of covid. the young people had suffered greatly from the confinement in their daily lives. it's changed their lives. yes, it was a good idea, but we can't stop there. so, yes, there has been progress. the involvement of young people has increased, but we have not achieved anything concrete. and that's the worst thing in politics: broken promises, those made by the abstainers, that make citizens turn away from us. we have asked, for example, to respect the commitments made at the conference on the future of europe by consulting young people on the major policies that concern and affect them. we were expecting this announcement at ursula von der leyen's state of the union address, but it did not come. we have asked for a european framework for quality and fairly paid traineeships. we also asked for a framework for youth mental health. nothing concrete has been announced. so i am particularly proud that, with my renew group, my colleague dragoş pîslaru, we have set up a working group that puts young people at the heart of political consultation and our thinking. we're moving forward together. but at the level of the european union, the work is still to be done. that is why the european year of youth must continue for another six months, and that is what we are asking for in this resolution.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, your conception of the youth of our different nations is completely misguided. this motion for a resolution on the european year of youth is therefore an opportunity to recall a few points. you only speak to the youth of the metropolises, the one you represent, wearing the veil, while the iranian youth is desperately trying to get rid of it. the one you represent is a member of the woke, lgbt and progressive factions, when their real and immediate priority is the end of the month and a saturated labor market. for the rest of the youth, the fact is simple: you don't listen to them and they don't listen to you. the most blatant proof of this ideological manipulation is the eye days in the european parliament, the theatre of the militant far left, which coexists with feminist workshops, islamist femyso, discussion spaces on racism and places for debate on transgender identity. the truth hurts to hear, i know. european youth must know that this is how you represent their everyday concerns. for you, youth is nothing but a metaphor for the left. you systematically bring together young people from universities, ngos and federalist associations in this house, pretending that these people represent the youth of europe. the plurality of opinions is non-existent every time you give them the floor. this is particularly evident in your online survey on european values. it was a total failure, and it received only 5 000 replies out of the 88 million young people on our continent. youth is the easy argument to justify your federalist, leftist and anti-national campaign. it is to make the peoples of europe believe that the new generations are ready to ratify the united states of europe project prepared by old federalists who are disappointed with the election results. but if there is one constant since modern society has existed, it is that the young have always refused to be thought for. let us not put the young people of our 27 different nations in the same ideological basket. youth is at the forefront of the crisis, the difficulty of starting a business and international competition. the truth is that our young people are facing the same challenges every day as the rest of europe. so, for the next european year of youth, get out of your progressive delusions and go to meet them in the different countries, rather than bring the sons of the bourgeoisie from the rich metropolises of our continent.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european year of youth is coming to an end. the european year of youth. i took the test last night, went to strasbourg and asked all the young people i met if they had heard of the european year of youth. well, you can imagine that not one of them said yes to me. not one of them. still, it could have been an event. it was the european year of youth for good reason. with the explosion in the number of young people forced to start their working lives by queuing up at the restos du cœur. one in five people who are in the food aid queue are between 15 and 25 years old. this european youth year made sense, given the number of students who are navigating between scholarships and odd jobs and who are forced to settle for one meal a day because they cannot pay their bills. but we can say today that this european year of youth was a missed opportunity. the guarantee of youth. the youth guarantee could have given young people access to real, stable and quality employment. but no, it ends up putting them in a precarious situation. on the minimum income, we were waiting for a real binding directive from the european commission, a directive which gives everyone access to the minimum income, regardless of their age. this directive would have forced france to put an end to discrimination against young people under 25 in access to the rsa. but no, we got a recommendation. even the interns. the trainees were forced to come before the european parliament last week to ask us to ban the modern slavery of unpaid traineeships. so, it is true, i admit, i had a taste for the large-format posters with smiling young people who say 'european youth year' in the morning when you arrive at the european parliament. i'm really gonna miss this. but admit it, admit it, we could have done so much better.
madam president, i would just like to remind our dear friends on the far right why this event was organised. it was a peaceful action that was intended to remind one thing clear and distinct: the right to abortion will remain the right that our institution will defend relentlessly. and that was the meaning of our presence. i would just like to recall the words of simone veil, who said: 'you will have to remain vigilant throughout your life, it will take a political, economic or religious crisis for the right to abortion and women's rights to be called into question'. so ladies and gentlemen, you will always find us in your way when it comes to questioning women's rights.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us never forget that the proposal for the revision of the medical device legislation was published following the pip breast prosthesis tragedy in 2012. ten years later, we are still debating the implementation of this legislation. this does not meet our vision of an ambitious, pragmatic and above all independent europe of health. patient safety cannot be an adjustment variable. health standards are as or more important than other european legislation. we must admit that the implementation of the regulation is now in danger, because of the very small number of notified bodies, but also because of the lack of anticipation on the part of some manufacturers and the lack of specialised staff. it is true that for several months now all the actors have been sounding the alarm and it is time to respond with pragmatic solutions acceptable to all. so, we agree to adapt the regulation once again, but temporarily and on the margins, to avoid potentially dangerous supply disruptions, but not to call into question this ambitious regulation which is absolutely necessary for the safety of european patients.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, while president macron at the apec forum asks us which side we are on china or the usa and declares that we need a single world order, or that at the g20 the strengthening of global health governance is announced with the leading role of the who, europe is dying under the brussels bureaucracy. france, on the other hand, has recorded deaths in its emergency rooms due to lack of care. today, you should not get sick because there are no more hospital beds. you have cancer? you'll have to wait until there's a vacancy or you have a friend in a hospital with a good standing. private jet forums will never have these problems. we would have in france half as many scanners per capita as greece or denmark. our french hospitals lack nurses and scanners. we see the same failures with this 2017 regulation that established a new framework for in vitro diagnostic medical devices, such as hiv, covid tests or pregnancy tests. this is about medical devices that hospitals in the european union can keep, but you should know that macron's france closed 4,400 hospital beds and suspended 15,000 healthcare workers during the covid crisis. instead of improving, patient care has deteriorated in europe and france. in poissy this summer, a woman died after 28 hours in the emergency room on a stretcher. hospitals are unable to supply themselves with medical devices, and european companies are bogged down in bureaucracy and have to stop producing products that have been used for generations. in all areas, the commission is setting up a system of private companies responsible for certifying products. a market worth €140 billion by 2022. but let's go back to our topic with some real-life examples. how can the german private certifier tüv rheinland still practice after being involved in the pip breast prosthesis case? tüv certified these prostheses before they were marketed, then carried out thirteen inspections in thirteen years without ever finding anything. i'll certify everything, but i won't verify anything. 400,000 victims, 30,000 of whom were in france. ten years of waiting and legal battles. for covid vaccines, we're not talking about 1,000 deaths in 30 years, but 11,000 in one year in europe, according to the latest figures from the ema. other pharmaceutical scandals: pfizer was fined $2.3 billion in 2009 for filing false claims with the authorities for the anti-inflammatory drug bextra; johnson & johnson, to $775 million in 2019 for minimizing the risk of fatal complications from its anticoagulant xarelto. private jet forums tend to forget this sad reality. the bali g20 statement posted on the white house website clearly has the answers to your questions.
president of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all express, on behalf of my group, my full support and gratitude to the belgian police and judiciary, which are also the backbone of our democracy. when i see the tweets written just now by mr orbán, who is already exploiting this story, i have a thought for the hungarian people, who are deprived of an independent judiciary capable of carrying out such anti-corruption operations. my friends, i am proud to work in a country where such investigations are possible. perhaps, as i said, our institution must first of all reaffirm without reservation - and you do so, madam president - its full support for the judiciary and its cooperation with it. nor does it mean that we should simply wait for the outcome of this procedure, quite the contrary. my group will propose actions which will need to be the subject of a broad consensus among pro-european groups. first, on the people concerned: we will vote, like all the groups, to remove ms kaïli from the post of vice-president, and i think it is important to do so within a short time to send a strong signal. if the facts are established, we will also ask her to resign. as regards qatar, madam president, we are asking for the suspension - and you have announced this - of the new agenda on the questions which have been voted on in committees or which have been the subject of a separate vote. in view of the current investigation, my group obviously supports the return of these debates to committee. as regards the question of the transparency of political life in our assembly, we will support the strengthening of transparency registers. it is a long debate in this house, but we must also have rules of procedure on this matter. as you know, since 2019, my political group has been calling for the creation of an interinstitutional ethics body, which must have investigative powers to better monitor the rules, not only of meps, but also of former parliamentarians and of all the people who work in the european institutions. finally, as regards the interference - you also mentioned it, madam president - my group is in favour of a committee of inquiry, but only after the judicial inquiry has shed light on this matter. i will conclude by saying that my group will be with the institution: you will always find renew europe at your side in the democratic fight for transparency, against corruption. we will not allow our work to be soiled, we will not allow this parliament to be soiled, we will not allow europe to be soiled. no one can betray the confidence of the people with impunity, and certainly not that of our peoples in europe. ladies and gentlemen, let us show our fellow citizens that the european parliament has no shaky hands.
co-chair of the left. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is quite clear that our european parliament is probably caught up in the most serious corruption scandal in its history. qatar bought votes from this assembly to cover the exploitation of migrant workers to death on the world cup construction sites. as we said, the facts are shocking: more than €1 million has already been seized from the suspects' homes, and the vice-president of parliament is behind bars. it is obviously the integrity of our institutions that is being affected, but i want to send a very clear message to qatar from the european parliament: we do not buy members of parliament the way we buy football clubs. it is shocking, of course, but i must say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that i am not really surprised, since qatar's interference was so palpable. it must be said that for over a year our group has been calling for a debate and a resolution on the human rights violations at the world cup in qatar, but some groups have consistently opposed this. when we finally succeeded in getting it, i was able to see, having participated in the negotiations on behalf of our group, how some groups took advantage of the closed doors of the negotiations to euphemise criticism of qatar, the newly emerging champion of workers' rights - let us not doubt it - and to defend qatar's interests at all costs, to the point of inserting things that had absolutely nothing to do with the resolution in question. of course, the investigation is currently affecting one political group, the socialist group, but money has no smell, and corruption has no party. this is especially known in france, with former right-wing president nicolas sarkozy being the target of a corruption investigation by qatar. i should also like to mention the ostentatious and repeated praise of commissioner margaritis schinas for qatar, which can ask questions. every institution has to sweep in front of its doors. this is the tip of the iceberg. of course the vice-president of the european parliament must resign. but what kind of world do we live in, to ask us to resign? what kind of world does she live in, that she doesn't resign of her own accord? secondly, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is clear that we will need a committee of inquiry from this parliament to analyse the permeability of the european institutions to corruption and conflicts of interest. finally, to prevent this type of issue and this type of problem in the future, clearly, we will have to put back on the table the things that have been buried by the european commission, as an independent ethical authority, to clean up our european institutions once and for all. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, our condemnation and our reaction must be unanimous. let us shout it loud and clear from the european parliament: our democracy is not for sale.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, i will not be long, we have had the opportunity here to touch on the heart of the matter that concerns us. i think it would be strange, in this last plenary session of the year, just after this scandal broke, if we did not have a debate in which each and every one of the parliamentarians here, shocked and certainly angry, could express themselves. the aim is to have an opportunity for a debate between us, perhaps a quiet one, but in any case one which allows us to draw certain conclusions about the next steps for our european institutions, because things cannot continue in the same way. i would point out that we are proposing a debate and a separate vote to have a resolution. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we cannot hide behind our little finger and that we must collectively draw political conclusions from this - i was talking about an independent ethics authority, for example, to remind the commission of its commitment, which it has put under the carpet - and find together the way forward after this scandal so that all the lobby groups, external authorities and external countries no longer come to the european parliament to buy our votes, as if it were a supermarket.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, to be very clear about our position, which i think is shared by the groups likely to vote against this resolution at the moment, we are not hostile to a resolution. we are, on the contrary, in favour of the lessons to be drawn from this case, but only over time. we propose to review this question in january, hoping that the legal procedure will have been completed and that it will allow us to draw some conclusions. we are in the middle of a judicial case, with judges who are still in the european parliament in brussels at the moment. i am not sure that adopting a resolution now is the best way for parliament to do this. i am therefore in favour of a resolution, but my group will vote against it later.
i'm the reporter. (speaker speaking in sign language)
i'm the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is what people with disabilities experience. you've been through what they go through every day. you misunderstood what i said: i simply said that in europe - and i could not finish my speech in french sign language, since it is not a recognised language in the european union - many people with disabilities were discriminated against and that in this europe, access to work and fundamental rights was still far from being achieved. this report was made with great enthusiasm, because i wanted to put the individual back at the centre. how do we put the individual at the centre? just by listening to him and listening to his needs. this report was based on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and i have based my report, mrs dalli, on your strategy. while it is still too early to have a real impact assessment, these objectives are ambitious and we can go further. i would like to congratulate certain member states on their commitment to the deinstitutionalization of people with disabilities. i won't have my four minutes, because i took more than two minutes to speak in sign language. so i will be brief: we must go further and call for genuine anti-discrimination legislation in the union. there is a directive, but it has been blocked in the council since 2008. fourteen years ago parliament took a stand, and since then nothing. he always has better things to do than tend to the most vulnerable. didn't you hear us? we're going to shout louder. we are going to change our approach, and instead of asking for unblocking, we are asking the commission to update the european equal treatment directive. i am asking here, as my colleague younous omarjee has already done, that the international sign language and the 'easy to read and understand' language be put in place. if we really want to talk about the inclusion of people with disabilities in public and political life, then here in the european parliament we must put the means to it. what more can i say? call for an end to forced sterilisation, an end to institutionalisation and an end to eu funding of these institutions. a person with a disability must be able to decide for himself/herself where he/she wants to live and what support he/she wants to receive. speaking of support, the union must also put in place community aid so that every disabled person is no longer left on the side of the road and that every disabled child can have transport to school. i thank mr cañas for being in the chamber today. every disabled person must be able to work. here in parliament, in the commission or in our institutions, how many people with disabilities, visible or invisible, are employed? let's talk about family caregivers, these people who devote their time, their lives and their love to accompany their loved ones with disabilities. let us think of them and give them our full support. we must think of a triangular policy which can take into account both people with disabilities, social and educational staff and caring parents. let me think, in this context, of a disabled woman named odile maurin who did not have access to justice. there too, fundamental rights are violated, trampled upon, trampled upon every day. i could not say everything i wanted to say, but i said it differently, as a number of disabled people do, and i am proud that i said it differently, less proud that i was stopped in the middle of the road. i would be delighted to hear what my colleagues and the commission have to say about this report. i would like to thank a woman named céline boussié who has been denouncing for ten years the abuse of children with disabilities in medical and educational institutions.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i would first like to show mrs dalli how much this parliament is asking her to move things forward and clearly asking her to have a directive on the european disability card before the end of this term so that equality can at least win that victory during this parliamentary term. it is time to say thank you, and i would like to thank all my fictitious rapporteurs, as well as the colleagues on the peti, empl and cult committees, who have given us a lot of good opinions and comments, which were important to us. it's since i came here in 2019 that i said to myself: i will have a report on people with disabilities, because in a not so long ago, i was taking care of people with disabilities. i think that we are all different, that we are all unique, and that ultimately it is from the difference that diversity is born, and it is from the diversity that society is born. it is therefore important that we here in parliament speak out loudly for genuine equality of fundamental rights for people with disabilities. i would like to reiterate to you, mrs dalli, our demands and our ambitions that there should never again be any inequality between citizens in any member state. there is validity, and today we realize that this validity makes us think for people with disabilities, that we act for people with disabilities, and that too often we leave them a voice, the voice of the forgotten. so i hope that with this report, here in this parliament, i have succeeded in giving a voice to people with disabilities, a voice to those who have been forgotten.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too was disappointed with sharm el-sheikh: 1.5 degrees is on paper. but there has been no progress towards 1.5 degrees, and in terms of loss and damage, i think it's really terrible that we haven't been able to bring china on board. china must be involved, it must be held accountable. i think there are two important consequences of this unsatisfactory result. first, we need to do better with our climate diplomacy. we do a lot of good at home. i hate to say this to you personally, but i think we need to do better. we all have a role to play here, and perhaps parliament too. but we must invest more together in preparing these cops. second, we should not back down on ambition. of course we have a crisis now, and in the short term we need to use more coal in some countries. but in the medium and long term, there is only one answer to all three crises - high prices, dependence on russia and climate change - and that is more renewable energy and more energy efficiency. that's why i'm saying, "fit for 55", sharpen, not weaken.
madam president, cop 27 is a painful failure. some, like you, mr vice-president, have blamed china, india or the united states for hindering climate action, and sometimes rightly so. but how can we claim to be exemplary ourselves, when we persist in investing in fossil fuels? i would like to welcome the proposal on loss and damage which has been tabled. but how can we not deplore the ambiguity of the european approach? europe is therefore asking developing countries to move away from fossil fuels, so as to earn the money of the west. but the reality is that as europe, we have barely reduced our carbon footprint since 1990, and that to the repair of our climate debt of the past is now added that of current climate inaction. the reality is that member states and their companies, sometimes unfortunately supported by the commission, signed new oil and gas contracts during cop 27 with senegal, egypt and qatar, to the detriment of human rights, corruption and the climate change agenda, which wants fossil fuels to remain underground. the reality is that despite repeated calls from the united nations to criminalise those who damage the climate, we have not yet done so here. so, mr vice-president, we have no more time to waste. we must now, ladies and gentlemen, take action.
madam president, dear friends and colleagues, on arriving at the european parliament today, i was shocked by the weight of the lobbies, which have managed to corrupt some of our colleagues. shame on them! however, as i left the climate summit, i was shocked by the weight of the oil lobbies, who had gotten to the point where there was not a word, not a line about the end of new oil drilling. frans timmermans said: the only important development of this cop is a new fund to help the countries most affected by climate disasters. this is a very important step forward, and europe has made a lot of progress in this direction. but there is a risk of a deep rift between the countries of the north and the countries of the south if this remains a new promise and if there is no money. vulnerable countries can no longer afford promises, they want action. the good news is that our parliament has been proposing solutions for the last three years, including a small tax on speculation of 0.1%, which could bring in €57 billion a year. immediately after the cop, i was able to meet antónio guterres, the un secretary-general, and maría fernanda espinosa, the former president of the un general assembly, who told me: "this tax is not a financing solution, it is a solution for reconciliation between the north and the south. yes, a solution of reconciliation. so to avoid chaos, it is urgent to create this tax and have an agreement before the next cop.
madam president, commissioner, while you were in sharm el-sheikh, i decided to go back to sea and crossed the atlantic in a solo race, with the ambition of bringing the oceans' issues to light. i have also seen the effects of climate change on weather patterns - we can talk about that. i co-founded the ocean and climate platform and i see the ocean's place growing in the various climate negotiations. unfortunately, it's a long way from where it should be. i believe that the european union, which has the world's largest maritime area, should not only catch up, but should be even more ambitious in integrating the ocean and marine and coastal ecosystems into the response to climate change. we know how to map blue carbon ecosystems and we know how to develop blue finance. i was told that dubai had decided that cop 28 would be a "blue cop". so i ask: will the european union join this initiative, and will you finally be able to integrate the ocean a little more in the european union's response to the objectives of the paris agreement and, more generally, in public policies?
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, far from the issues that are strongly affecting our parliament, rural areas represent more than 80% of european territory. areas that often feel, rightly or wrongly, a little forgotten. i am proud that parliament is sending them a serious, comprehensive, informed and well-worked message with this report. i hope above all that the commission will hear us and transform the text of its communication of june 2021. i hope that we will make progress on the observatory and the definition of functional rural areas, that we will apply the principle of the 'rural reflex' to all european policies and that we will make our funds and financial support more effective. we need to give our countryside visibility, make it more attractive and stop the demographic decline in agriculture, of course, but also beyond. there are also encouraging signs in some european regions, which we could increase by working more closely with the actors on the ground. brussels will not be the only one to shape the future of rural areas. we must provide comprehensive and appropriate care and support for these areas which play so many roles, starting with providing almost all of our food. i hope that the member states, but also the regions, will be able to continue to act, coordinate and implement their respective programmes: this is a major challenge for the balance of our europe. i would like to thank our rapporteur, isabel carvalhais, again. i think we should approve the whole text, including the paragraph on predators.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you and first of all congratulations to isabel carvalhais and all the fictitious rapporteurs for the quality of this report. i have the happy countryside and i have the winning countryside, because i believe that rural areas are where we have the solutions for the green deal for europe, including through the digital transition and the long-term vision for rural areas, which allows us to have the roadmap to build a stronger, better connected and more resilient rural europe. rural europe is also the environment in which virtuous initiatives such as the leader programme are developed. it is through this programme that we are achieving a 'europe of proximity' and a 'europe of engaged citizens'. rural areas are the environment for social innovation: different actors come together, new ideas are stimulated and new partnerships are created, with a participatory approach that engages the local population. the participatory nature of leader and its brilliant results have been the basis for this new impetus for rural life. it is therefore essential to strengthen the leader programme, to ensure that rural areas receive an adequate percentage of european funds, given that they represent 80% of the union's territory, and to develop a rural reflex which leads policy-makers like us to integrate the rural dimension in a transversal way in all european and national public policies.
madam president, for decades the european union has been working to establish and promote free trade and globalisation. to this end, it has multiplied free trade agreements, which have continually impoverished our agriculture and dismantled our industry. the impoverishment of our countryside, which has been abandoned in favour of the 'start-up nation', in the words of our french president, is the direct consequence. french and european agricultural and industrial products are no longer competitive on the world market. that is why our countryside has been abandoned in favour of the big cities. the findings are: desertification of rural areas, catastrophic demography, closure of public services and persistence of white areas. these are realities which are largely attributable to the policy of the european union. and what does she suggest to remedy that? a rural pact, a rural test and a european observatory on rural life. but what are these terms? the rural europeans are not laboratory rats to be tested and observed. the cap and the eafrd are also there for that purpose. i therefore conclude that they do not work, since the commission is proposing a new pact. moreover, as mr macron contemplates 'settling whole populations of migrants in our so neglected countryside', the commission is seriously considering basing its policy on, i quote, 'inclusive communities of intergenerational solidarity, equity and renewal, open to newcomers and promoting equal opportunities for all'. they're just wishful thinking. to develop a sound vision of rural areas, the european union should question its characteristic ultra-liberalism and globalism in favour of smart protectionism and the relocation of activities to rural areas.
madam president, in january 2021, france closed many of its border crossing points with spain, including the banyuls pass, due to the threat of terrorism, uncontrolled immigration and health risks due to the covid-19 outbreak. three large boulders were laid across the road from the pass. of course, this does not prevent the epidemic, illegal immigration or terrorism. the situation is absurd and surreal. it defies common sense. many local actors have mobilised, because this closure only affects one category of people: honest people. in addition, the closure prevents any rescue aid from crossing, for example to fight fires, and it also prevents many seasonal workers, especially for the vineyard, from coming and going to these territories. to secure the borders of a country is not to put three stones in the middle of a road. i therefore ask france to re-establish effective control at this level of the border, without this negatively affecting a whole local life which is already in great difficulty. the president of the french republic, on a visit to perthus, had promised to provide reinforcements of police to guard our borders. there were no policemen, but rocks instead. we want real controls that do not hinder local life in any way. it's entirely possible. it is enough that in paris this little piece of the catalan pyrenees is finally considered.
madam president, we are all destroying a country with the best of consciences. i was in lebanon last week with a delegation of french members of parliament. all parties, all denominations and all actors have given us the same message, whether they are shia, sunni or christian. today, there are nearly 2 million syrian refugees in a country of 6 million people. it's an intolerable burden. imagine tomorrow that in france we receive 22 million refugees. today in lebanon, schools are exploding, hospitals are failing and all this is made worse by the economic crisis. we must act quickly and according to a very simple road map. today, we just have to accept that syrian refugees return to their country. the european union and the west refuse to admit their failure in syria, and we make a country keep a third of its population on its territory when it cannot afford it. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a few months it will be too late: no more schools and hospitals in a country that we are, i repeat, murdering. it is simply enough to allow ngos to accompany refugees to syria, for their own sake and to save lebanon.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if you will excuse my somewhat wintery dress, in this age of contemporary lies i believe only in the energy shield i represent. so i dress accordingly. the only question i would like to ask in the minute i have is: what is behind this energy crisis? other we didn't talk about it much before, and suddenly, we started asking questions from all sides. renewable energy is becoming the renewal of humanity, while we are moving towards the exploitation of rare earths, which are subjecting us to china. i have no choice, but i have my concern, and i ask again: in the troubled times we are living in, in the worrying times this parliament is living in, what is behind this sudden energy crisis, which is taking us back to the age of the candle, without us having the slightest candle?
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, since may slovenia has impressed with its new commitment to europe. it has also become a model to follow, including in integration, as you said, mr prime minister. we are proud to have you as part of our political family at renew. the ecological transformation and the new economic attractiveness are at the heart of your action and that of your government, in full accordance with the european climate and sovereignty objectives. you have put slovenia back in the heart of the european union. your institutional record is unanimously welcomed by civil society and civil rights organizations. the illiberal and authoritarian drift in slovenia has finally come to an end. the public television is becoming independent again. the judiciary can rule in a much calmer climate, since these few months of governance. the slovenians, vote after vote, have confirmed that the populist experiment of your predecessor, janez janša, was a political, social and economic failure. mr rangel, what you have just said in your statements is not surprising. it is in line with the few slanders the epp has been able to make about slovenia since the defeat in may. your epp meps, although officially pro-european, have often supported and excused all the insults mr janša has made on social media against our partners and parliamentarians - we have taken advantage of them to a great extent. you also implied that the election was under foreign influence. during this election, you also defended the harassment of a number of journalists, who were vilified by the current government. mr prime minister, i would just like to assure you, on behalf of my group, of the support of the vast majority of members of parliament here in your determination to support and encourage the peaceful democratic debate in your country. my group and many others hope that slovenia will be at the heart of europe and that the path chosen by the slovenes will inspire other peoples - i am thinking in particular of the poles and the hungarians. thank you for your intervention. you will always have the support of renew europe.
prime minister of slovenia. – madam president, dear members of the parliament, i’m glad to be here again now. i have a bigger audience now. you obviously enjoyed my previous speech so much, you came to listen, all of you. let me reiterate certain things that are so important that i don’t want you to miss. first, let me pledge our full, not just support, but commitment to implementation of the rule of law in slovenia, but also our support for the rule of law within the other member states of the european union. and the rule of law is not subject to interpretation by political partisans. it is something that you either have or you don’t. because it’s not just a political system. it is our responsibility to implement, but it’s being lived by other subsystems such as the media, the judicial system and so forth. the other commitment that i would like to pledge fully is our commitment to support the ukrainian people. we’ve done everything possible and everything that we could or even did not plan to do under the previous government. we are supporting ukraine in all possible ways, and we do it promptly. we are not just promising aid; we are delivering aid promptly. and that’s something that’s easy, very easy to prove. we are also very committed to supporting the enlargement of the european union in the western balkans. this is one of the first topics on our government agenda when it comes to foreign policy. we want to see the region stable and the only way to stabilise the region is by bringing it closer to integrate it into the european union. it’s not a matter of which mechanism is being used. it’s about integration, and as fast as possible and as strong as possible. that’s the only way we can transform the region at its core. and third, we come to energy. i believe that no single nation can face the energy crisis alone. it doesn’t matter how big you are. it doesn’t matter how rich you are. the cost you will pay if you want to tackle it alone is going to be exorbitant and you will not be able to take it. maybe for a year, yes, but not in the longer run. the only way forward is through a united and coordinated effort. and for this particular reason i urge again, not just you, but my colleagues: forget about national egotistical moves, thinking that you can solve your problems and leave the others behind. it’s not doable. the only way forward is by being united and decisive. it is truly the only way forward. and that is also the only possible message that the speculative traders who are ruling the energy markets of europe right now will understand. and let’s leave the floor with that.
thank you very much prime minister. that concludes the debate. (the sitting was suspended briefly.)
(the sitting resumed at 12:14) president. – i understand there is a point of order to be made by hynek blaško. please state the rule under which you are making it.
we will now proceed to the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
first of all, we will vote on a proposal from the conference of presidents, for the early termination of the office of our vice-president of the european parliament, ms eva kaili. in accordance with rule 21, the proposal requires for adoption a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast, constituting a majority of parliament’s component members. only votes for and against constitute votes cast for the purposes of calculating whether the necessary two-thirds majority has been obtained, in accordance with rule 187(3). please note that the total displayed at the top of the screen will include abstentions and that the votes taken into account are only the votes for and against.
now colleagues, before we go to the last two votes, i wanted to take this opportunity to thank klaus welle, who after nearly 14 years will retire as secretary-general in the new year. klaus, i am sure you would have preferred a smoother last few weeks but i wanted to thank you on behalf of this house, on behalf of myself, my predecessors and those who come after me, for all you have done for this european project. your vision, your steady hand on the wheel meant that this parliament was able to get ever closer to the people it represents and is a position to stand up for the values we all cherish, and you have given us the tools to put parliament on the map. from the bottom of my heart, and, as you have seen, from the bottom of all our colleagues’ hearts, thank you. (the house rose and accorded mr welle a standing ovation.)
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended briefly.)
the next item is the report by mrs salima yenbou, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the implementation of the new european agenda for culture and the eu strategy on international cultural relations (2022/2047 (ini)) (a9-0279/2022).
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen: if i had to do it all over again, i would start with culture. this apocryphal phrase by jean monnet perfectly sums up the spirit of my report. culture is, and must continue to be, at the heart of our european project. culture allows us to communicate, express ourselves and understand others. it is a vehicle for genuine emotions and a way of getting to know each other and celebrating our differences together, both within and beyond our borders. after six years, it was high time to assess the success of the union's cultural policies, to assess the implementation of two pillars that constitute the pillar of these policies. this is a long process, which has now resulted not only in an evaluation of what has been done so far, but also in strong and ambitious recommendations to relaunch and support european cultural policies, and above all to respond concretely to the needs of cultural actors. it is essential that we pay much more attention to the needs of the beneficiaries of our policies. it is no longer the time for the implementation of a cultural policy of emergency, crisis response or crisis management. the situation is best summed up by one example: the working conditions and status of employees in the cultural sector, which remain deeply precarious. how many times do we have to be reminded that the creative and cultural sectors have suffered unbearably from the covid-19 crisis? what do we have to do to convince you ? i am particularly pleased to see the members of the council here today. the pandemic has only made more visible the problems in the cultural sector that have already existed, and that we have all known about for years. artists and workers in the sector have waited too long for member states to take concrete and legislative measures to regulate their working conditions. through my vote, parliament is only reiterating its call for the creation of a true and dignified status for artists. it is also an opportunity to highlight the fact that the cultural sector is not just about citizens of the european union, and this is very important to remember. we are constantly talking about the need for coherence between our internal and external policies. this is good, but cultural policies should not be an exception. it is clear that approaches based on culture and intercultural communication are unparalleled in their effectiveness in forging links and strengthening our international relations and cooperation. this is why cultural relations must be at the heart of our diplomatic efforts. whether it is the undeniable links with environmental sustainability, the protection of monuments and cultural heritage in conflict zones, or the fight against the illegal trafficking of art objects, the international dimension of culture and its role on the global stage should not be underestimated, quite the contrary. at the beginning of these links, it is essential to emphasise and accelerate the restitution of looted works. we have to. moreover, madam commissioner, we are still awaiting the commission's proposal for the european union action plan on trafficking in cultural goods, which is due before the end of this year, i.e. in eighteen days. a final word on the council's work plan for 2023-2026: we have worked closely with the czech presidency, and i am pleased to see that the themes and priorities identified in my report are mentioned in the work plan. but i'm still starving, sorry about that. you do recommend steps to tackle the problem - exchange of good practice, sharing of experience, development of existing initiatives, etc. - but when will action be taken? when's the real one? i would like to conclude by stressing once again the importance of this report, which defines and reinforces the philosophy and overall approach of the european union and its member states to cultural policies. this approach requires strong political involvement and coordination between all the actors involved, in our institutions, and especially with our partners on the ground: artists, sector workers, cultural institutes, civil society, communities and local populations. let's invest more in that direction. let us invest in more specialised and qualified financial and human resources. above all, let us commit ourselves politically! the legacy of the last commission term is still strongly felt in the cultural relations of the union. i am sure, commissioner, that i can count on you to convey this message to mr borrell as well. the cultural and creative sectors deserve nothing less than what the commission, the eeas, the member states and we in parliament know and can do, if and only if we really want to. it's our move.
mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the european cultural agenda, based on the promotion of diversity and inclusiveness, is a claimed means of educating the european masses, if not a means of europeanising certain populations inhabiting our continent. on the diversity side, i find that netflix has an impact infinitely greater than anything the commission can produce, even if it includes an inclusive meal. at least with gafam, it's aesthetic. the rapporteur is careful to make it clear that she does not subscribe to the theory of the culture war. yet here we are. it is a cultural war being waged by the commission and its vigilant friends against the peoples of europe, to force a certain world view on them. the real aim is not to celebrate european cultural genius, but to make europe the best pupil of the globalised culture and ideology it promotes. far from valuing our cultural exceptionalism, the agenda degrades us to the status of a sponge of other cultures, as illustrated by the explanatory statement, which quotes george floyd and the re-evaluation of cultural and power relations between the north and the south. the commission's cultural vision underlying the european cultural agenda is as hollow and wordy as a disney series. i am guadeloupean, caribbean, overseas and rooted in a caribbean culture, but also a european who claims her multiple and cultural heritages and who defends her specificities, i do not share your vision in any way.
mr president, commissioner, minister, allow me to thank the rapporteur, mrs adinolfi, and the other rapporteurs for this owninitiative report, which makes it clear that the european parliament supports culture and sees it as a very important and indispensable part of our lives. as we say in our report, culture helps improve mental health, culture helps improve educational outcomes. we were able to appreciate with minister balash last week how culture connects. the european parliament and 700 participants in the european youth year conference applauded the musical performance of the pupils from the primary art schools. culture is a bond. already during covid-19, the european parliament called on member states to invest at least two percent of their investment plan in culture. and i'm glad that the czech republic is among the 16 countries that will actually invest more than 2 percent. the european union does not have to manage culture. culture needs freedom and support. but the european union must protect its cultural roots and safeguard its cultural heritage. that is why we have cohesion policy, why we have creative europe, and why we also have the european cultural heritage label, and i believe we will continue to develop it together.
mr president, it is a very good report of salima yenbou, it highlights the last couple of years have been full of crisis and challenges. the eu is going through a period of uncertainty and instability. illiberal and authoritarian regimes attempt to redefine international rules and values while violating artistic and academic freedom. there is a competition between cultures in order to influence public opinion at the global level. we can send the right messages by developing, promoting, projecting european culture. therefore, this report is both timely and appropriate. international cultural cooperation and cultural diplomacy can play a strategic role in promoting eu’s democratic values, in conflict prevention, in countering disinformation and foreign interference. the eu should therefore mainstream culture as a strategic pillar through all eu’s external action policy areas. finally, it is also important that the eu, we ourselves, try to speak with one voice on issues that have an impact on international cultural relations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's great mistake is to think that people are united by a currency, forgetting that the only glue that can forge them is identity. if we have a common destiny to pursue, it is not simply a common market, but the ancient european civilization created by our ancestors, which has been a beacon for the whole world. to revive this destiny, we need a european programme to promote our historical and cultural heritage, involving monuments and works of art, as well as local languages, customs and traditions. the european institutions have ignored this source of identity and have even obstructed it in recent years, preferring to import pseudo-cultures from abroad which have done nothing but destroy it piece by piece. the new european agenda for culture is an opportunity to correct the course. that's why, rather than flooding it with gender, lgbt or woke ideology, we need to make room for the saints, kings, heroes, battles, arts and philosophies that have carved our tradition. a priceless heritage, adored and imitated all over the world, which the left wants to incinerate with a barrage of culture, well aware that the solidity of our roots is the basis for the imposition of its ideology.
mr president, this text on culture is an opportunity to talk about a threat which, i believe, through a purely technical regulation, could directly affect europe's heritage, because the commission is about to publish a revision of the reach and clp regulations on chemicals. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. take lavender, for example. unlikely, but true: the commission could treat the extract of this plant, a provençal wonder with which men have perfumed and treated since the roman empire, as a chemical to be banned. i am also thinking of lead, which is explicitly under threat. if lead were involved tomorrow, it would be impossible to work on glass, for example. when it takes tens of thousands of euros of files for a simple temporary permit, which craftsman will be able to continue working? some crafts have already disappeared, not because of a lack of work, but because of excessive standards. "two thousand years", wrote péguy in his prayer in chartres cathedral, "two thousand years of toil have made this land an endless reservoir for the new generations". a thousand years of your grace have made this work an endless resting place for the lonely soul. after centuries of effort, we will threaten the restoration of notre-dame-de-paris with administrative forms, as well as the maintenance of every village chapel. the pride of our predecessors, what made europe, was the greatness of the works they left behind. we cannot undo it today by the high administrative walls we erect against all those who are desperately trying to create, transmit and maintain what we have received. the same subject, dear friends and colleagues, is at the heart of this: we cannot save nature by weakening culture. with our group, madam commissioner, we are tabled an amendment to re-establish this simple principle: the commission must provide for an exemption - taking account, of course, of health and the environment - whenever a new standard would endanger a cultural or heritage sector. we're counting on you.
mr president, culture is a very important element of the european union's foreign policy. i am glad that the resolution we are voting on tomorrow recognises the role of the council of europe's cultural routes programme, which has enormous potential in strengthening our relations with the rest of the continent and also with our neighbourhood. i particularly welcome the fact that the resolution asks the european commission, on the basis of the success of the discovereu free interrail for young people initiative, to consider the creation of an action under the erasmus+ programme for young europeans to obtain a travel voucher to visit and discover the camino de santiago and other european cultural routes. as chairman of the intergroup on european cultural heritage, the camino de santiago and other cultural routes, i would also like the commission and the member states to continue the work of identifying and mapping these routes, also in digital format. in particular, and lastly, the routes to santiago which run through the whole of the european continent should be marked using the symbols suggested by the council of europe, such as the yellow shell.
member of the commission. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i would like to begin by thanking you. thank you for sharing your thoughts and ideas again, not only on how to achieve the new european agenda for culture and progress, but also on what lies ahead. thank you again for highlighting key issues, on which i hope we will continue to work closely together. the status of artists is a priority, i can confirm that. again, you can really count on my efforts to try and get it to the top of the european agenda. now that the analysis requested by the european commission has been done, and knowing that such practices exist only in some member states, i think we can join forces and try to bring this issue to the top of the european agenda. thank you very much for also drawing attention to the cultural and creative sectors' ecosystem, but also and above all for proposing measures that target its fragmentation. it is true that today there is a huge potential here, which we must allow to develop. next year we will also take targeted measures. thank you for emphasising the social dimension and the inclusion that culture provides, including the inclusion of marginalised groups. i would also like to thank you for drawing attention to young people. it is true that today we need more cultural measures to encourage our young people to get involved in this sector. this is through innovation, so that we can preserve the diversity of their talents, but also allow them to have great opportunities. attention needs to be drawn to mobility and to be able to support young people to make contacts, participate in projects and reach new audiences. thank you also for bringing the cultureu platform to the attention of the public again. i remind you that in just three clicks you can find more than 75 sources of funding. however, the challenge of synergies persists, because when we talk about the culture budget, i remind you, it is not just the creative europe programme; it is also the new culture strand in the horizon europe programme, with a subject more or less similar to that of the creative europe programme, and the new innovation community. we have also fought alongside you to get the 2% in the recovery plans, which are now here. i would like to end by thanking you for drawing my attention to one of the regulations that is being prepared which could harm the cultural sector. i think we all have this noble cause at heart: to support and not hinder, to provide opportunities and not create obstacles later, if good words do not lead to good deeds. thank you, because, again, you have emphasized the progress. i would like to say that we have achieved these advances because we have acted together. it is the result of a collective effort involving the commission, the european external action service, the member states, stakeholders and, of course, the european parliament. the world has changed since 2018, and the brutal invasion of ukraine brought war back to europe. this is a daily reminder of the importance of culture as an expression of our european values. as such, i will finish with the next job that is coming up. at the time of our council meeting a resolution was adopted on a new work plan for culture 2023-2026. the council called on the commission to propose an even more coherent european approach to culture. of course, i'm counting on you, but i'm also counting on you to rise to this challenge together.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, madam commissioner, honourable members, thank you for a very important debate on this topic. definitely, culture is a source of inspiration and innovation to all of us and is a reflection of humanity and aesthetics. it is our shared language and heritage and it is a fundamental part of our identities and communities. and of course, it’s also a central part of our educational system and vice versa, our education and educational system are also part of our culture. a number of you have underlined that the recent global challenges such as covid—19 pandemic, but also the russian war of aggression against ukraine and the energy crisis, hit the sector hard. and these challenges only highlight how important culture is for individuals and the whole community, and hence adaptation and new policy measures at all levels are required. culture is also an integral element of sustainable development and an excellent vehicle to transmit and promote our shared european values, including freedom of expression and creation. and the culture sector makes a significant contribution to employment, to the sustainable growth of the european economy, and to the education and wellbeing of all citizens. and yes, i very much agree that culture, and in particular cultural diplomacy, when based on the partnership approach, is indeed a very effective instrument in external relations. we must enhance its role in our relations and cooperation with other countries and international bodies. that is why we should really provide the whole cultural sector in its diversity, our versatile support. and it also includes some financing. so i’m quite glad that i heard from madam commissioner that the european commission is ready to deal with it and to support also culture. and i also am quite glad that madam commissioner mentioned also culture and science. and it’s also quite an interesting contribution to education and to science. so it’s really quite important. so now thank you very much once again and for your attention.
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, of course we will stand by you, as you know. we will be with you to encourage, to work, but also to give constructive criticism, as you know, and to ensure that concrete actions are followed up. so you can count on us. to return to the question, it is clear that we are concerned about the protection of cultural heritage. instruments are not prohibited, they are subject to authorization because of their potentially dangerous nature. i think health is worth a few forms. we want beautiful stained glass, but at the same time, we also want to fight cancer. the renew amendment serves two purposes, mr bellamy. it is responsible for the protection and promotion of cultural heritage on the one hand, but also for the protection of human health and the environment on the other. these two sides are not in conflict. we can have both, so why deprive ourselves? our roots, anthropology and history say, are in mesopotamia. in ancient times, the greeks and romans built their culture through trade and cultural exchanges with the phoenicians. is that the roots the right is talking about? i ask him the question, of course. i would also like to point out that inclusion is no longer a matter for discussion, it is a non-negotiable european value and does not belong to any party or political group. it makes me smile, because no one in the ecr group has ever participated in meetings or sent comments, and today their concerns remain empty words without action - just a little video to use... you are only criticizing those who have been working for nine months on this report to advance and make the cultural question exist. so i think that says it all in that comment. finally, i would like to thank all those who have taken part in this good, comprehensive and ambitious work: all the non-existent rapporteurs, all the staff, all the stakeholders, all the colleagues from dg eac and the eeas, and the czech presidency.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear minister, one out of four children in the eu is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. and this means children going to school without a breakfast, lacking proper health care or even a safe roof above their heads, which also leads to much stress, often not performing very well at school. and there we are missing opportunities for these children and facing lifelong disadvantages. with the rising inflation, with the energy crisis and the war on our continent, it will even get worse and therefore, we as social democrats, the european parliament, have demanded over and over again that the council and the commission have to act and create a dedicated budget of at least 20 million to eradicate child poverty by establishing the child guarantee. it’s now time to act.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, a quarter of our young people live below the poverty line or are at risk of exclusion. the number is colossal, and the reality is staggering. yet our governments are slow to submit their action plans to combat child poverty. parliament must strengthen the controls on this implementation. growing up in poverty is a lifelong mark on all children. refugee children should also benefit from the funds - ukrainian children, of course, but also afghan, syrian and sudanese children. we cannot discriminate against children based on the wars they flee. with the child guarantee, the european union is introducing a minimum package for children's rights: housing, health, food and education. however, this is not a magic wand and childcare is facing a crisis. that is why we are asking for an additional €20 billion. we also call for structural reforms and renewal of public policies on issues such as access to education and childcare, as well as real security measures for their parents: minimum income, minimum wage, dignity in short. we are one of the richest areas in the world. but what do we do? it's time to prioritize our choices for our children.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, the religion of human rights ends where the suitcases of money begin. while the european union has established itself as a model of virtue, a moral teacher and judge of all the world's regimes, it is now allegedly corrupted at its highest level by the money of an islamic state. the democratic scandal which is now hitting the european parliament, one of whose vice-presidents has just been beaten, has the merit of putting an end to a charade: the charade of those who wear the banners of europe's values, the charade of those who shout the loudest in defence of democracy, the charade of the socialists suspected here in the european parliament of having received money from qatar. qatar is, let us remember, an islamist dictatorship. freedom of expression does not apply, gender equality and workers' rights do not exist, and homosexuality is punishable by death. qatar is the state where 6,500 slave workers died on the world cup construction sites, for which our modern democracies turn a blind eye. qatar is the state that withdraws its women's teams from international sports events, on the grounds that its players cannot play matches wearing the islamic veil. qatar is the state that finances islamism in france and sponsors the jihadists of al-nusra in syria. according to french journalists christian chesnot and georges malbrunot, qatari proselytism and, with it, the influence of the muslim brotherhood in france have poured over 25 million euros in ten years into the construction of schools, radical mosques and separatist associations. how many other elected representatives of this parliament are prepared to sell their public views to the highest bidder? how many others have shown the same moral flexibility, if not the same moral degradation? we refuse to have our nations sold to the chopping block. it is time to bring the corruption to light and to shed light on the dealings of certain elected officials here with qatar. i'm sure there are more bodies in the closet, and we're not out of our misery. on the subject of qatar, as on many others, we will have alerted before anyone else. so please respect the real europe in the face of those who trade in it and in our interests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question we did not dare to ask ourselves now is: is there a fifth column of corruption in the european union? i know. what can i do? first, to combat the deception of certain ngos. "no peace without justice" was the name of one of them. 'fighting impunity' was the name of another of them. the judges, perhaps, will remember that we must fight impunity, fight the system of human rights fraud - panzeri is the former chairman of the subcommittee on human rights - and finally fight the lobby system and get ms von der leyen's sms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the judicial aspect of the judiciary, the qatar scandal raises a political issue which this house cannot ignore: the doors of the european institutions are now wide open to external lobbying and they are equipped with enormous instruments of influence, whether they are foreign countries, multinationals or ngos. and qatargate itself shows that the ngo case is one that deserves special attention. it is enough to read most of the proposals that come to committees to discover the pressure to give certain pseudo-humanitarian organisations a prominent role in the decision-making process of our institutions, creating situations of great ambiguity, as, for example, in the case of the conflict of interest between ngos and the european court of human rights, where many judges are a direct expression of these realities. these are facts which have a legal significance for european democratic life, but which have no democratic mandate to do so, and it is not known to whom they are answerable or what interests they actually protect. that is why i believe that the qatargate inquiry is necessary but not sufficient. if we want the european institutions to regain their transparency and credibility in the eyes of the citizens, we must free them from the grip of opaque lobbies, and let only those who have the popular mandate to do so be the ones to lead the action.
the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. your resolution on the qatar leak was passed without even a roll call vote. european union, people's party and social democrats, on the graves of thousands of dead workers in the qatari camps, you discovered exemplary labour reforms advocated by the head of the 'working fathers' of the ituc, who was also persecuted. the capitalists of qatar, until yesterday strategic partners for the european union's alternative energy efficiency and visa-free travel, have now become an authoritarian regime that attacks european democracy. those who pretend to have now discovered the lobbies that are at the forefront of this mess, alongside shady ngos and customized resolutions of the subcommittee on human rights, are now creating new "myths" about lack of transparency, "bad" lobbies and codes of conduct. let the people draw their own conclusions. no trust in the european union and the rotten capitalist system it serves! they are not corrected; they are only overturned by the struggle of the peoples.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the investigations are revealing an aberrant situation which must bring the whole of the european parliament together on what needs to be done. i am shocked and disappointed but above all furious at the possible involvement in a criminal affair of members of parliament, former members and assistants who have for years attended these institutions as colleagues. the courts will take their course to establish responsibility, but i want to make it clear that any attempt to influence my party, the democratic party, has failed and we will make sure it continues to do so. our delegation, including those in our own political group, unanimously voted in favour of the left group's amendments to the resolution on human rights and labour rights in the resolution on qatar, which were rejected by the right wing, and also put tough questions to high representative borrell in recent months on the world cup. we will take whatever action is necessary to bring the truth to light and to ensure the honour of our work and our struggles. in addition to the commissioner's announcement of a new anti-corruption law, an important initiative is the creation of an independent european body on ethical issues. we have always voted for it and now we expect those political groups which opposed it to change their minds. it is time to go all the way and save our democracy from those who want to destroy it for their own interests or those of other states.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our parliament is the target of interference. in november, russia launched a cyberattack after being branded a state sponsor of terrorism. today we find that others, here in qatar, are bribing our members in order to receive favors from their votes and networks. it is nothing more or less than corruption. in the pursuit of profit, some here have denied the moral imperative of our mandate. yes, the judiciary must do its job, and the european parliament will be transparent about this matter. ladies and gentlemen, however pernicious the acts of interference we are suffering from, the actions of a few individuals or states cannot harm our europe and our institutions. corruption has no place in our institutions. that is why i will not shake hands if we have to lift immunities. as you will understand, in the face of corruption, our renew group will be uncompromising, as it will be uncompromising in the reforms it will bring so that these acts never happen again. let's create this high authority for transparency that my group has been carrying since 2019. commissioner, that was a promise made by president ursula von der leyen. we're ready to go.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. mr president, i thought i could put the question to valérie hayer, who refuses it. so i'm going to ask my question, and it's going to stay with a question mark; i hope she will have the capacity to raise that question mark. i also wanted to say that i share his outrage at this biggest corruption scandal, which is unprecedented, but i had two questions. the first is how to explain that emmanuel macron said in this context, just a few weeks ago, that this world cup was evidence of concrete changes at work, and that qatar had committed itself to this path, had to continue and could count on our support? that was the exact text of one of his tweets. second question: how can we accept that emmanuel macron goes to qatar, not boycott and support in this way a government that is corrupting our institution? i'm sorry i don't have an answer.
mr president, colleagues, some have already pointed out that stricter ethics rules would not have prevented the kind of serious criminal acts that we have now seen. but i want to convince you that lax rules, on the other hand, can create opportunities for corruption. an organisational culture that turns a blind eye to smaller indiscretions of members only serves to enable more serious abuses of office. parliament has been, until now, light-handed in dealing with dodgy friendship groups, false electoral observation missions and questionable use of members’ allowances. the free mandate of an mep is not an excuse to act against the core values of our union. the proposed committee of inquiry must have a strong mandate for far-reaching reforms to protect this house from undue foreign influence and other abuses of power. importantly, new rules on members’ conduct must include enforcement and sanctions. until now, they are just symbolic. and back in 2021, may i remind you, i wrote a letter to president sassoli, together with colleague mr glucksmann, and made concrete proposals on undue foreign influence. we received no reply. the threat of foreign influence must now, finally, be taken seriously. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – thank you for your question, ms melchior. first of all, the simple thing that we could have done on that day we could still do today: we obliged foreign embassies and diplomats and other foreign actors to be registered in the transparency register. and then, of course, this question of wild unauthorised election observation should be tackled because we have in our rules the protection of the dignity of the parliament. so members should not be allowed in activities that damage the reputation of the parliament, and we should give a broad interpretation to this, including electoral observation missions that only are in favour of strengthening autocrats that we as an institution do not want to defend.
mr president, there is a political culture in europe and in certain countries of the union which consists of increasing leniency towards human rights violations – a strategic increase. qatar-friendly europe is an example of this political culture, as is the lucrative relationship between spain and the regime of saudi arabia. one only needs to see the sympathy and praise of commissioner schinas every time he has met with qatari representatives to understand what the official narrative is. when economic interests water down the demand for respect for human rights, the door to corruption opens a little more. maybe we should try to be less friendly and more demanding.
mr president, first of all, congratulations to the belgian authorities for having uncovered this scandal, unlike others who cover up scandals. the european parliament has a right to be respected, and it has a right to be respected. we have a duty to be guardians of transparency and democracy and not examples to be avoided. that is why, from the first moment i heard of this shocking case, i immediately proceeded to expunge mrs. kylie from our party. it's not enough to say we're all the same. we must prove it by our actions. so it's time to act. i therefore propose, firstly, that any european official be prohibited from becoming a lobbyist after his term of office. secondly, just as we have set up the special service for the monitoring of meps' and their associates' mobile phones against malicious software in order to protect our republic, we must set up a special body to carry out a thorough check on all meps' assets and the way in which they have been acquired, starting tomorrow morning. it is a two-pronged approach which will help to bring the light and remove any shadow from this democratic assembly. we owe it to the citizens we represent, we owe it to the vision of a united europe.
mr president, my first words are of gratitude and support to the belgian judiciary and the belgian police for having uncovered this very serious case of corruption. obviously, the main ones to blame are those who have been corrupted and those who have corrupted. both of you equally. and i must also say that we cannot think that this is just an isolated case that does not affect the institution; it is affecting the image of the institution, at a time, moreover, very difficult, in which many people are having a bad time. this only increases the dissatisfaction between the citizens and the european institutions. so, what i want to do here today is to issue a warning to all of us. be careful not to close this crisis on false pretences. to close this crisis in false would simply mean replacing mrs kaili as vice-president and doing nothing else. that would be a huge mistake. we need to respond to this crisis with a thorough reform of transparency rules. because parliament cannot continue to be the weak point in the integrity system of the european union. we need to fundamentally reform the way we operate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must act quickly, as we are ashamed and angry, and we must be aware that the people of europe demand that we be firm and uncompromising. "today is the day to get rid of old burdens that have become cumbersome": these words of altiero spinelli should serve as a compass. it is now time to get rid of the old burdens of recklessness, laziness, the culture of impunity and the ethos of compromise. today is the day to decide. we need a commission of inquiry. we need a high authority on transparency in public life at european level and a european rule on the capture of elites by foreign regimes. however, imposing new rules will not be enough. what we need today is courage, courage to confront the lobbies that penetrate our institutions, courage to counter these foreign regimes - qatari, russian or chinese - that are doing their business here. for two years now, i have been trying to raise awareness of the interference and corruption with the members of the inge special committee, which i chair. well, the time has come to send a message to the world: european democracies are not for sale.
mr president, the political rise of kailasi, whom we have removed from her vice-president position, has been aided by powerful interests in greece which control the media and by the lobbies which are developing in the european institutions. its course and fall are a lesson and a motivation to impose rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis. the influence of foreign powers, such as qatar, which thinks it can buy everything, must also be drastically curtailed. it is being called for self-criticism by the italian socialists who gave it so many opportunities, by the evaluators who always found its scientific proposals for funding excellent and by those who have shown the products of the multinational digital giants in the european parliament under the auspices of the european commission. make no mistake, colleagues, it is not just qatar.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the corruption scandal that is affecting our institution today is the worst of all, because this corruption sought to silence our institution on human rights. many authoritarian regimes interfere in the democratic life of parliament, seek to promote their aims and try to redeem their image. today it is qatar, which built its world cup on the corpses of exploited workers. for years the environmental group has been sounding the alarm about corruption and we are calling for action. we demand an independent european ethics authority and a competent commission of inquiry. today we are faced with what happens when there is no transparency and those in charge have not taken the necessary deterrent measures. there will always be corrupt people and corrupters if we do not put in place a real anti-corruption mechanism. i say to the corrupt regimes: 'you will only buy your image back by respecting the law, human rights, freedom and equality between women and men, not by buying up the deputies. other
mr president, more than €1.5 million in cash, that's 94 years at smic. in other words, a couple who work all their lives will not earn as much money as qatar has spent to bribe european elected officials. and again, we're only at the beginning of the investigation. most of us have not been offered briefcases of tickets. but most of us have been scammed. it's the name given to a technique that makes us look like fish that are being baited with bait. we all got those baits. just last week i received an invitation from the embassy of qatar to one of the most luxurious hotels in brussels, sent to my e-mail address in parliament. two weeks before, it was an invitation to go to qatar, visit stadiums, meet with trade unions and see how qatar had put in place a set of measures to strengthen social protection and working conditions. ladies and gentlemen, we must tackle the roots of this scandal and legislate so that unbridled lobbying and corruption are no longer a fish in the sea in the european parliament.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, after the qatargate affair, the european parliament is not in a position to be credible on this issue. qatar regularly takes hostile positions against israel in international institutions. this was the case again on 21 september last, on the occasion of the 77th general assembly of the united nations. neither israel, nor palestine, nor any other country can take our debate seriously in this matter. our european parliament and especially its subcommittee on human rights have been under the influence of qatar. there is no reason to say that this is no longer the case. to continue this debate is to continue the humiliation of an institution that has not been able to protect itself from the obvious interference of a state sponsor of islamism. i would like france to be at the forefront of a new dynamic in favour of two viable states. it is the only solution, we know, for peace to come between israel and palestine. but it has nothing to gain by doing so through the european union, which has neither the will nor the credibility to support such an initiative.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i reiterate my support for a solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict based on the coexistence of two states - that is the meaning of this resolution. violence can only lead to violence and i condemn it, wherever it comes from. i strongly believe that international law must be respected, particularly un security council resolution 2334, which condemns the expansion of settlements in palestine by the state of israel. i am absolutely convinced that the european union can and must play an active and major role in achieving lasting peace. this international peace conference really needs to be organized quickly. another forum for action is the parliamentary assembly of the union for the mediterranean, of which i am a member. the 'global gateway' strategy is also important. the european funds we give are also evaluated, so it is absolutely essential that we maintain this aid.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, in syria, the european union is only contributing to the deterioration of the situation. after denying the powerful islamist involvement in the syrian rebellion, the european union has poured into a vindictive policy that is draining the entire region. so by refusing to organise the repatriation of syrian refugees in lebanon, you are destroying the balance of the whole country. our insane policy of sanctions against the syrian people is both a resounding political failure and a historic humanitarian scandal. the mafia galaxy of qatargate, which is shaking up the european parliament, had obviously multiplied initiatives in support of the syrian rebellion. moreover, for the past ten years, our policy towards syria has been perfectly aligned with doha's interests in the area. today, whether we like it or not, the syrian people have given victory to bashar al-assad. syria's worst enemy for a decade, erdoğan, is now multiplying the signals to reconnect with damascus. you know that when erdoğan advances a pawn in the levant, it is because nato may well want it. to put it plainly: instead of supporting syria's territorial unity and politics, our foreign policy has charted the path to an inevitable bloodbath. as always in history, the united states eventually abandoned the kurds. and as always in history, the turks are absolutely opposed to kurdish factions organizing on the border. to sum up this aberrant situation: turkey is now succeeding in getting closer to damascus, while supporting the illegal occupation of the idlib region by islamists and has supported all enemies of the syrian government. as for the europeans, who have suffered from islamist attacks directly organised from the strongholds of the syrian revolution, why should they not be able to re-establish a balanced relationship with syria? yes, the clash between the kurds and erdoğan can only move us. we have to be hypocritical, though, to deny that we're angry, but we're not doing anything else.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, this commemorative eu-asean summit is based on, i quote, common values and principles, effective multilateralism and free trade. the european union could have settled for the latter term, because in reality its action is motivated only by and for the market - a market which, unfortunately, caught in the savagery of free trade, is destroying our industries and agriculture in favour of a logic of low costs and immediate gains. the only common value is that of the container ship, on the opposite track to your environmental vows. of course, you are promoting your purely commercial trade by claiming cooperative work on human rights. the truth is that they are mocked in many of the countries with which we trade and who ignore your shy and often hypocritical, pedantic manner. business first. it is nevertheless imperative that we have balanced diplomatic relations with the asean countries in order to break the face-off between the chinese bloc and the us bloc. but does the european union even exist as a balancing power? not only do you not have a mandate to exercise it, but our national sovereignty, which is the basis of it, has been degraded and replaced by european impotence, as is shown by our feudalism in washington, which also degrades the diplomatic relations we could develop with other countries in the world, including those in south-east asia.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of this european council is less full than expected, and that is a good thing. the agreements of yesterday and the day before yesterday are excellent news. i would like to stress that this european parliament and our group, renew europe, in particular, have a lot to do with this. hungary is historic. the conditionality mechanism was a request from my group. the commission's activation and the council's adoption of the directive were made possible by the pressure exerted by this european parliament. mr weber, you said that this mechanism of solidarity and conditionality was the baby of this european parliament. it was the brainchild of a number of political groups who pushed this forward, but we are happy to share it with the whole of this parliament today. the minimum tax rate on multinationals, like the border carbon tax, will soon be a reality, in line with the wishes of this house too. we should be very happy about that. of course, the last few weeks have also shown that vetoes are rotting democratic life in europe. the absurd decision to delay the entry of romania and bulgaria into schengen, the incomprehensible wait for measures on gas prices and the very worrying delays on russian sanctions... all this should make the council decide to listen to what we have been calling for for months and months: put an end to unanimity, switch to qualified majority voting, listen to what the citizens said at the conference on the future of europe. these are words which you have heard many times in this house, madam president, and i think we should go further on this matter. it is a question of efficiency and modernisation of our institutions, all the more necessary as the gigantic challenges we face are enormous. the decisions of our american friends and our chinese adversaries are putting our economic fabric at risk. this is a major sovereignty issue. without healthy productive fabric, the green deal for europe is threatened and social cohesion is in danger. it is also a question of unity. as you said, madam president, quite rightly: the asymmetries in the national responses pose a real risk of fragmentation. this is a danger to the single market. i ask the commission - you have made some announcements - and especially the heads of state or government to support these three ideas. first, the european fund - you mentioned it - so that we can produce more on our own soil, for example renewable and clean energy and essential goods. a test of sovereignty to ensure that no european legislation will undermine our objectives in this area. this is what we are already doing, in the environmental field and in the field of the green deal for europe. a law of sovereignty to free the energies and our continent. our rules are a hindrance to our businesses and smes, like the permitting deadlines and the endless and unnecessarily complex procedures we experience in our respective countries. three years for a european hydrogen project: it would take three months at most. businesses only want to produce and create jobs. they are the lifeblood of our continent and we need them to be the economic powerhouse of tomorrow. madam president, mr minister, i know that one crisis chases another. after covid-19, war and energy, it is now industry that is at the top of our priority pile. we have no time to put off our decisions. we must innovate politically to negotiate this economic turnaround of 'made in europe'. i also wish you all a very merry christmas. we hope that this council will be productive for our economy and our citizens, and for protecting our european citizens from these crises.
on behalf of the id group. madam president of the european parliament, madam president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the council, ladies and gentlemen, it is not good at this time to be a european company. not only are our companies suffering from the infamous rise in energy prices, for which you offer no lasting solution, but they are now facing an american protectionism which is taking on a false image. as the european council approaches, here is a new concern for our companies: the law on reducing inflation, decided by us president joe biden. under the guise of combating climate change, this law favours american companies with large subsidies and tax credits, whether in the fields of photovoltaic panels, electric cars or batteries. the european elites, who still believed in the liberal religious texts and the world trade organization's brief, were stunned! with arms outstretched, eyes wide open, you seem to finally discover that all the great powers of the world promote their businesses, protect their workers and defend their interests. all except one, the european union, which is always the best student of free trade, and always at its expense. we are the only continent that opens its public markets to this extent without reciprocity, where americans buy american and chinese buy chinese. we are the only ones to open our borders to products that do not meet any of our standards, whether social or environmental. rather than being the eternal naïve of global trade, what are we europeans waiting for to buy european? what are we waiting for to protect the social standards that have been born of our democracies, avoiding any competition with countries that do not care much about workers' rights? what are we waiting for to define and defend our strategic interests, to build an ambitious growth policy and to protect our producers, our consumers and our employees? europeans did not create europe to suffer, but to act. let's wake up now! i thank you and wish you all, my dear colleagues, a very merry christmas.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam president of the commission, in the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe there is one which coincides with a longstanding aspiration of the socialist group in this european parliament: to do away with the vetoes of unanimity in any decision which does not concern constitutional aspects, common values, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and enlargement. does unanimity on energy make sense? does unanimity make sense on taxation? and above all, does unanimity make sense in vetoing the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area? we welcome croatia's accession, but it is an injustice that bulgaria and romania are still prevented from fully enjoying article 45 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union: freedom of movement. and that injustice requires political action. and this parliament wants to support any political and judicial action that seeks to redress it because otherwise we are only fuelling euroscepticism and anti-european attitudes in two member states. it is not possible that two member states out of 27 have vetoed two member states which have long since fulfilled the technical and political criteria which have been required of them. it is therefore time to redress this injustice by any political and judicial action at the commission's disposal.
madam president, the appreciation of the czech presidency has been expressed here on several occasions from various quarters, and i would like to join in. it was sincere and i am glad that the czech republic helped to carry the burden of the european union during this difficult time. it is clear that in all of these negotiations today and tomorrow, we are looking at the impact of russian aggression against ukraine. what we see every day, the russians continuing to attack, confirms that we made the right choice and that this is the only way for us, even if it costs us a lot today. but in the future, it would cost us a lot more if we didn't respond in a very clear way. of the many tasks that await you tomorrow, you will have to choose only a few, the essential ones that the citizens will understand. if we want to improve security, we need to admit romania and bulgaria to schengen and help them to defend the external borders, to fix the price of imported gas to improve the energy situation and to support ukraine not only with words but mainly with weapons. i wish you strength for the years ahead.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's topic: the energy crisis and its effects, war, security, transatlantic relations, all have an impact on the citizen. but i admit that i am surprised that the council's agenda for 15 december does not include this issue which has been on the agenda for 11 years, namely the discussion of the absolutely aberrant and legally unenforceable vote of austria, in fact of the chancellor, not of the citizens of austria. that is why i ask you, commissioner, and you, the czech presidency, to insist that this vote, which is not legally covered, be resumed, and i thank my colleagues and the president of the libe committee and all those colleagues who signed a letter that we wanted to send to the european commission as a signal that you must speed up the procedures for amending the treaty, to get rid of this unanimity that blocks everything we do here in the european parliament. i hope that romania and bulgaria will join schengen as soon as possible, and that means as soon as we start next year, because it is their right and the single market is not a single market, it is a fragmented market and in this context we cannot have competitiveness.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it has been a very interesting debate. i think it has been comforting for everyone listening to hear the very, very sharp condemnation of the corruption. and i think it’s really important that that is being said. as speakers have said today, as a first sentence, showing the willingness to take action. because people should know that this house is not a corrupt house, that the european institutions are not corrupt institutions. i think that is absolutely essential. also for voters, for citizens as such, to appreciate the results that have been achieved. it is really, really impressive how this house has answered the calls from all of europe in order to pass legislation that will change reality on the ground. so i want to congratulate you on these results in these last weeks and days before christmas that the house shows we listen and we deliver. i also hear and feel the disappointment over the discussions over schengen and the decisions taken there. as you will know from the commission side, we were ready with a full recommendation, having followed very closely the preparation, the changes, the reforms in the countries that were ready to join. of course, we will keep working for a full result for a full schengen area that can serve european citizens as the schengen area should serve our citizens. and maybe what i hope and what the president also presented in her speech, the focus on where we are as europeans, because a lot of work this year has been dealing with the question of the energy crisis. and i do appreciate and share the empathy shown by so many speakers of the difficulties in some families to heat their homes. the thing is that in everything we do to tackle the urgency, we need to make sure that we keep a direction for a europe that is truly decarbonised, for a europe that is truly competitive, for a europe that is truly inclusive. and part of that is indeed the single market. i’m really appreciative of the mention of that. we are now celebrating 30 years first thing in the new year. that single market needs to be continuously nurtured, tendered, cleaned-up, in order to make sure that every business, every citizen can make the most of it. the paradox, of course, is that even in crisis, even with our emergency measures, we need the fundamentals to work and the single market is part of our fundamentals. and the second of our fundamentals is that europe is the most preferred trading partner for 74 countries on this planet. and that openness has created prosperity for europeans to build welfare states all over europe for decades with no end. things are changing, but we should not let go of the fundamentals, our ambitions when it comes to cleaning-up europe, for the green deal to be our growth strategy, for the single market to help us out, for europe to be a continent that work with others. the changes that we are presenting, they are changes that build on those fundamentals but take, you know, the context into consideration because new measures are needed. we should make the most, and we will discuss that shortly, of the interpretation of the inflation reduction act in order for european businesses not to be discriminated. we must make sure that businesses in the green sector that they can be supported in order to compete fair and square with the same sector in the us. but since state aid depends on member state discussions and member state pockets and the depth of those pockets, it is really important that we press on for the third element, which is to have a truly european fund in order to support european industry for every member state and every part of these supply chains, when it comes to green, to feel included. and last but not least, to accelerate the green transition, because the only real promise that we can give to european industry is the promise of affordable, stable, decarbonised energy to be provided on this wonderful continent, and for that repowereu has just been agreed upon. for that, i want to thank you. this is a major step forward.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, vice—president of the commission, honourable members, thank you for your remarks and comments. i will convey them to the president of the european council. to conclude, leaders will be addressing key challenges facing us this winter with regard to our safety and security, our continued access to affordable energy supply, and the strength and resilience of our economy. some of you have expressed your frustration regarding the lack of agreement regarding the full application of schengen to romania and bulgaria, mentioning the impact of national vetoes. we will have the opportunity to discuss the issue of vetoes later today, and i look forward to what will certainly be an interesting debate. regarding schengen, i should reiterate that completing the schengen area with all member states who fulfil the conditions was a priority of our presidency and we are very pleased that croatia was able to take this important step. bulgaria and romania fulfil the conditions for the full application of the schengen acquis, and we commend both countries for all their achievements. the council will continue to work hard to ensure that we can welcome them into the schengen family soon. regarding the price cap, let me assure you that the czech presidency is working literally day and night, and we are confident that we will achieve results in the course of the next week. as regards the need to support ukraine with weapons, let me underline that europe is doing its homework. a number of member states have been providing military equipment to ukraine since the very outset of the war, including my own country, which literally emptied its own stocks, and czech factories are churning out ammunition for ukraine at an exceptional rate. on sanctions: the eu adopted the biggest and most ambitious ever set of sanctions today and will continue to work on more sanctions, as needed and as long as necessary. beyond the sanctions, the eu will continue to support ukraine with economic and military equipment. on this aspect, i should highlight again the important agreement reached at the foreign affairs council on the reinforcement of the european peace facility, which will provide greater sustainability to this crucial instrument for supporting ukraine’s war effort. on the international front in general, maintaining strong ties with our allies will be crucial, whether that is in our southern neighbourhood, across the atlantic or in the western balkans. here, i once again recall yesterday’s council’s recommendation to the european council to approve the candidate status of bosnia and herzegovina. madam president, vice-president vestager, honourable members, today is the last day that i have the privilege to address this plenary in my capacity as the representative of the presidency of the council of the european union, and i would like to thank president von der leyen, mr weber, mr lamberts and others for your words of appreciation. the czech presidency is not over yet and, indeed, we will continue together working hard until the very last moment to make it a success, and thereafter. i would like to take this opportunity already now to thank you very much for the cooperation between our institutions. we have together achieved a lot, and it has been an honour and a pleasure indeed. as from next year, i will pass on the relay baton to my swedish colleague, jessika roswall, whom i wish all the best. meanwhile, i wish you all a merry christmas and look forward to our other exchanges, which we will have today. thank you very much, once again, for your attention.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i am pleased that the european council plans to reaffirm its strong condemnation of russia's war of aggression against ukraine and its full support for its independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. the eu will provide €18 billion in aid to ukraine in 2023 and will step up humanitarian assistance and the reconstruction of the country's critical infrastructure. it is also essential to ensure the effective implementation of restrictive measures, to prevent their circumvention and to reiterate our call on all countries to join us. in the context of addressing the energy crisis, solidarity needs to be strengthened through better coordination of gas purchases, cross-border exchanges and reliable reference prices. in order to gradually end the eu's dependence on fossil fuels from russia and accelerate the green transition, it is crucial to increase investment in innovation, infrastructure and connectivity, and in energy efficiency projects.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the eu's reaction to the american law to reduce inflation (2022/2997 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, vice-president of the commission, the topic of possible repercussions of the us inflation reduction act on the eu has been high on our political agendas in recent weeks and months. there are concerns in the council that the discriminatory elements of the inflation reduction act, which are designed to benefit us-based manufacturers without guaranteeing a level playing field, may have a negative impact on european companies. the new us legislation, even if not in place yet, is already having an impact on the investment plans of our companies, and there is a clear potential for a more systemic impact on eu industry, in particular in sectors which are of crucial importance for our green transition. we are encouraged by recent positive statements of president biden himself and the ongoing talks with the us administration. we will support any credible solutions that emerge out of these talks. but there is not much time left before the inflation reduction act enters into force. while the cooperation with our us partners in addressing the most concerning aspects of the inflation reduction act will remain important, we will also need to consider in parallel what we can do at european level to support the competitiveness and resilience of our companies, the attractiveness of the eu as an investment location and reinforce our ability to step up our green transition in this crucial moment. we will collectively need to consider the appropriate measures. for instance, regarding efficiency of state aid and industrial policy to decisively address the distortions created by the inflation reduction act or any other future measures that put our companies and the european economy at a competitive disadvantage. the us programme comes at a moment where high energy prices are already having a considerable negative impact on our industries and our competitiveness. the eu should be proactive and double the efforts already under way to extend trade opportunities for our companies and improve access to raw materials, in particular those which are of essential importance for the green transition. europe has been very active on this front with key agreements under way or just concluded, like the very recent modernisation of the free trade agreement with chile, thus showing europe’s continued engagement with partners on this positive agenda. europe needs to act swiftly and the upcoming european council will bring a timely opportunity to hold a dedicated debate on our transatlantic relations. finally, let me underline that while we are continuing engaging with the us on the inflation reduction act, our strategic partnership remains stronger than ever as russia’s ongoing war of aggression against ukraine shows the crucial importance of the transatlantic bond for our as well as global security. thank you very much for your attention.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to present the commission’s engagement with the us on the inflation reduction act. the competitiveness of european industry faces a double challenge. first, russia’s war and the weaponisation of energy supply has led to an extraordinary increase in energy prices in europe. as we just discussed, this is also hitting many households very hard. and also because of that the dramatic increase in the price differences between europe and the us in particular. second, the us inflation reduction act provides generous incentives for investing in the us, including in some ways that are discriminatory against european companies and other companies as well. the eu has encouraged the us for a very long time to increase its climate action, to do more. the inflation reduction act is an important initiative to deliver on this and the commission is fully supportive of the climate goals that the us is trying to achieve with the inflation reduction act. so far for the good news. because the inflation reduction act discriminates against eu producers and exports. many of the green subsidies come with local content, assembly, manufacturing requirements. the effect will be felt not only by eu manufacturers of key final products to enable the green transition, but also their suppliers of upstream components within the european union, including highly specialised small and medium-sized businesses. the inflation reduction act is therefore a very strong pull factor to move investment and jobs to the us at the cost of partners and allies like the eu. this is counterproductive in terms of climate and sustainability outcomes. it’s also a violation of international trade rules. but in a wider sense, it goes against the spirit of our transatlantic partnership. and we have made this clear with the biden administration. executive vice-president dombrovskis and i discussed this in clear terms during the trenton technology council meeting with our counterparts, secretary blinken, secretary raimondo and trade representative tai. it is fair to say that the inflation reduction act was prominent in our discussions in maryland last week. and as a result, we heard a clear statement from secretary blinken committing to address eu concerns, building on the comments by president biden given a few days later. but they also contended that any legislative changes would be difficult. so what we need to see now is that these political commitments made by the us, that they translate into concrete solutions in the implementation of the act to limit the damage as much as possible. this is the aim of the task force which has been set up between the european commission and the white house. it will continue working hard with the aim of seeing results by the end of this year, because that is also the timing for guidance of the us treasury to implement the inflation reduction act. we already have war in europe, the last thing we need is a trade war on top. through the trade and technology council, and in particular when you look at the work that we’ve been doing on semiconductors, well, we have shown that a collaborative transatlantic approach to industrial subsidies, that is possible. and this should be the guiding principles for these sectors, the green sectors, the clean—tech sectors that we are discussing as well. while we keep working with our us partners to avoid negative consequences for europe of the us inflation reduction act, we need to continue pushing for europe to become a decarbonised, low—energy—price continent. and for that to happen as soon as possible. the attainment of the green deal’s objective for europe to become a climate—neutral continent by 2050, that should not be put at risk. the green deal is the european growth strategy, and we need to accompany our industries in meeting the ambitious targets. it is therefore of fundamental importance that the european union stays an attractive place for innovation, for investment in sectors that are strategic to the green transition. those are not all sectors. those are specific sectors. to facilitate this, just to face the energy crisis, as you well know, in march this year we put in place a temporary crisis framework. this enables member states to help businesses that face extraordinary increases in energy prices, and we have been reviewing it constantly to ensure that it remains adapted to the needs of the business community. but in the current context, in the combination of huge price differences, the effects of the inflation reduction act, we need to make sure that it is even simpler, even faster, even more targeted, while not losing sight of the need to preserve a level playing field to keep the single market together. and in this context, yesterday we launched a consultation of member states in particular to seek their views on the following three issues. first, how to further simplify the granting of aid for the rollout of renewable energy. second, how to further simplify the granting of aid to decarbonise production processes of industry. and thirdly, whether it is necessary to support certain types of productive investment in strategic sectors for the green transition. if supported by the result of the consultation of member states, targeted adaptations of our temporary framework could serve as a bridge to real european solutions in the medium term. the whole of the eu, and not only the richest regions and member states, should be able to preserve a strong industrial base. and that is why we need a european fund to complement existing instruments and to help ensure a fair green transition in all of europe. finally, public support cannot do it all. europe urgently needs to become a decarbonised, low—energy—price continent. state aid can be a short-term solution to the current challenges, but to be competitive on the world stage, we must make further efforts to remove single market barriers – barriers that unfortunately still exist. with the repowereu plan we have together given a new impetus to the rollout of renewables. but more work is ahead of us to make the decarbonisation of our energy system happen fast and to bring the benefits of a high share of renewables in the energy mix to consumers in a lasting way.
before we come to the list of the group speakers, i just would like to ask colleagues the following: we need to be very disciplined concerning speaking time; the next point on our agenda is the sakharov prize ceremony and everybody should speak in this round, otherwise we have some problems with the catch-the-eye, so really stick to your speaking time, please.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, three years ago in this room the green deal was compared to putting a man on the moon. and indeed at the time we were afraid that others would wreck our launchpad through unfair competition. now the us, with the inflation reduction act, is building its own launchpad. and if we’re not careful, they’re beating us at our own game, with our approach, but better tools in their toolbox. and we shouldn’t sit here and take it just because it’s our friends, the americans. that’s why the epp welcomes the ideas put on the table by the commission this morning. but we should do more. rather than the immediate more—subsidies reflex, we should first redirect money remaining in existing funds to strategic infrastructure for key sectors. and this should be done cross-border – because let’s be fair, this is what’s lacking in the current funds. our state aid and competition rules, it has been said, should become more strategic and more flexible, as should the upside process. and our budget, which is set in concrete for seven years, is of course not helping – there we need change and we urgently need own resources to address these new challenges. and finally, if the talks that are ongoing and that are good with the us do not lead to results, we should not be afraid of standing up for more ‘made in europe’. and on that note, madam president, in time, i wish you all a very merry christmas and i am sure we will revisit this topic after the break.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, madam executive vice— president margrethe, i guess, there’s no doubt about it, we need a partnership with the united states in this time of trouble all round, on the green transition, on the war in ukraine, as margrethe said. but, of course, partnerships need also trust. and my feeling at the moment, and i’m really sad about that, that the behaviour of the united states in the last two months is really a push away from a real good partnership. ‘might makes it right’ might be the principle of some people in the united states, and this is really undermining our cooperation. margrethe mentioned the very good cooperation at the ttc, but we need also good cooperation on the green transition and it should not lead to a substitute race. we should really stick to the international trading rules and we should defend this. we have a lot of tools in our toolbox to defend the rules-based trading system, and we should use them if the united states is not able to cooperate in a proper way.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, dear executive vice-president vestager, ladies and gentlemen, the law on reducing inflation imposes an irrevocable finding: the wto is at a standstill; our trading partners are giving priority to their economies. we need a european awakening. successive crises have shown us our dependence on drugs, materials or gases. in this context, our partners are investing heavily to protect their economies and their jobs. we have said it many times in this house: we must reindustrialise, digitise and decarbonise our economy to regain our european sovereignty and end our dependencies. it must not remain a wish. our european citizens and our european companies are not less valuable than others. with the digital markets act, the dma and the foreign subsidy regulation, we have laid the foundations for the end of this naive europe. it is time to give ourselves the means to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves democratically. ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the present situation and the responses of some of our foreign partners, we too must protect our economy, our jobs and our households. far from turning in on ourselves, let us give the european union its place back on the stage of the great powers! europe, the market of 460 million citizens that responded unitedly and in a timely manner to the covid-19 crisis and the invasion of ukraine, is not an adjustment variable. this is my wish for christmas: let us act together as a matter of urgency. merry christmas to you!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the us inflation reduction act has caught the eu unprepared and has also exposed the limitations of our economic policy. times are changing and we know that the building—up of a new green and social contract will require greater involvement of public authorities in investment and market intervention. but, on the other hand, we need to size well the risks that the us measures pose for the eu in terms of competitiveness. the us wants to accelerate the green transition and this is most welcome, but we should also urge the us to respect fair economic cooperation. unless we react, this package can make the us out—compete european players in the new economy. the eu should reflect, then, firstly on how to build its own industrial push through a genuine european package. that should include, as has been mentioned this morning: a reform of state—aid rules – we are very much looking for that; the establishment of new investment instruments – and that is why we want to reiterate our call for a new eu sovereignty fund to accelerate the green transition; and also a swift adoption of the reform of our fiscal rules with a view to establishing a permanent fiscal capacity. the eu, however, should also have the ambition of pushing this package in cooperation, not competition, with our global partners. that is why we believe that the eu should engage in the framework of the g20 in a coordinated investment push that would avoid – because this is also important – an endless round of wto disputes.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already made a number of proposals. unlike many opinions here or in european industry, which see an economic war looming and are somehow deeply disappointed by the us government, i think we should give credit to the industrial policy renewal package adopted in september 2022, even if i find the principle 'america first' more than questionable. what's the matter? the democrats have finally managed to get a big investment package for more climate protection and renewable energy through congress. to achieve this, the biden/harris administration had to balance job creation and climate action - a core demand of the global left, by the way. the great american consumer organization publiccitizen, the unions and many others applaud. anyone who has seen the industrial vacuum in the united states understands that the whole country needs a sustainable reindustrialization. it is now to be pushed forward, with enormous resources and in precisely those areas of technology which we in europe also need for the sustainable transformation of our economy and society. we must therefore raise money and invest even in the eu, instead of complaining and demanding that european companies also have free access to subsidies from american taxpayers' money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. greening economies good work, so just green transition. it is right and necessary to link climate policy with industrial policy. the 430 billion seems like a good investment and should give the us a chance to lead the way in developing crucial technologies. china is investing in the same way. we should follow their example and therefore also immediately invest some 100 billion euros in the development of technologies and finally in europe in their market maturity and production.
madam president, executive vice-president, minister, the inflation reduction act could have the unintended consequence of increasing our dependency on china as our companies might turn to less reliable alternatives if they are cut out of the american supply chains. this is a reality that president biden and his administration also needs to acknowledge. but we have alternatives to a subsidy race to shore up the competitiveness of our industry and ensure access to critical raw materials needed for the green transition in europe. we need to deliver – and we need to deliver now – on free trade agreements that are ready to go, and work on strategic partnerships quicker than ever. the most efficient way to react to the inflation reduction act is to conclude and to ratify, during this legislative term, the agreements with mexico, chile, australia, new zealand, and not forgetting about mercosur. a trade war or a harmful race to the bottom in subsidies, picking winners or losers, is a recipe that has never worked before and is not the way forward. it would weaken our alliances and make our enemies only rejoice.
madam president, dear commissioner and minister bek, it’s overwhelmingly positive that finally the usa is also investing in climate change and engaging for these actions in the inflation reduction act, just as we debated with the colleagues ten days ago in the congress. also we see that the third ttc ministerial was also positive on its concrete outcomes, on digital infrastructure and charging point standardisation among others, and also the new labour dialogue. however, the unintended consequences of this act, the inflation reduction act, undermine this good work. the inflation reduction act design seriously risks drawing investments away from europe to the usa, and it violates us international trade commitments. if there is no satisfactory solution very soon, the eu response must be swift and it must at the same time respect the principles of our single market, the most powerful tool for our economy and global standing, with the right balance and targeted support for future—proof industries, we should establish retail and supply chains with like—minded allies and lay down the foundation of our own strategic autonomy, alongside – and not against – transatlantic allies.
madam president, madam executive vice-president, while the us and europe are like-minded partners, both as democracies, but also economically, the inflation reduction act threatens to undermine this partnership. even if we don’t have a trade agreement with the us, which i wish we had, we have many national and sectoral agreements. european vehicles must be seen as equivalent to american assembled vehicles. but the inflation reduction act has larger consequences. it’s a protectionist step which will launch a subsidy spiral between nations. less than 30 years ago, we created the wto to ensure disputes were settled by discussions instead of trade wars. yet here we go. however frustrated we are in this moment, it should not blind us to the value that free trade brings to europe, that free trade brings to the european citizens. let us not join the race to the bottom without thinking first.
madam president, executive vice-president, minister, the protectionist way in which the united states is pushing the dearly-needed green transition of their own economy hurts our interests. our friends and partners in the united states are deviating important investment from the european to the us markets, thus effectively promoting european deindustrialisation somewhat, even if unintended. that runs counter to our shared interest, also to their own. and it has effects beyond just the economic dimension because it contributes to a creeping crisis of trust. of course, i wish you well, executive vice-president, with the talks that you have ahead of you, but i will still reserve judgment as to what can effectively be done in the negotiations. so we have to focus on what we can do ourselves. i certainly support the reform of state aid rules. i think we should invest together, as ernest urtasun has emphasised, in a smart, fair and wto-compatible way. and we should also go back to looking at the fragmentation that still exists in the single market and try to overcome that. one thing we should not do: we should not retaliate against protectionism with our own protectionism.
madam president! i agree that american companies in europe should be treated the same as european companies in the united states. competition should be fair, but is fair competition also guaranteed within the union itself? the us has a problem with 370 billion in state aid, germany has a problem with 200 billion, and olaf scholz's "doppelwums" are no longer a problem. is this not a breach of the principle of equal competition within the union? the concern about the deindustrialization of europe is well founded. but is this danger the result of the us's anti-inflationary act alone, or of the eu's long-standing policy, its misguided energy policy and the fact that the entire economy has been subjected to overly stringent climate targets?
madam president, in this house, where the word protectionism is banned to the point of being considered rude, it is surprising that a country, the united states in this case, can protect its industry, its jobs and its people. this is the primary mission of a state. as always, the european union idealises the transatlantic relationship, while the us approach is primarily pragmatic. french president emmanuel macron went to the united states to tell joe biden how bad he thought the law was for reducing inflation. naivety or acting? a failure, in any case. once again, we are being treated without consideration. the european union, the ayatollah of unbridled free trade, is thus exposing our companies to unbalanced competition, weakening our economic fabric, our jobs and the living standards of our citizens. the european sovereignty fund which thierry breton wants to set up is a decoy which will not sufficiently protect our national economies. it is time to put an end to this dogma of uncontrolled free trade. let's protect our savings. let us return to the path of protectionism, which we are the only economic area on the planet to have abandoned.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european economy is facing enormous challenges. in the short term, of course, it's the high cost of energy and the disrupted supply chains, in the long term, it's the transformation to a zero-carbon economic model. so we in europe would have enough to do without the us anti-inflation legislation. we cannot therefore accept that the foundations of our european economy are being undermined by heavy subsidies and a buy america clause. what can we do? i think we can all agree that we don't need a trade war right now. that is why, madam vice-president, a negotiated solution should be sought as soon as possible. we should not rule out a wto action or punitive tariffs. all options must also be brought to the table. but one thing is clear: the answer to the us anti-inflation law cannot be a new eu sovereign wealth fund. what appears so innocent is nothing but a new pot of debt, even if the commission may not see it that way. new debt will not make us more sovereign.
madam president, madam executive vice-president, it took only three letters to shake europe: ira [inflation reduction act]. three letters to our continent to lose its markers; three letters for the green deal continent to condemn, as a first step, the ambitious ecological transition plan of one of the world's most polluting economies; three letters to europe to panic, to be alarmed and to cry, even going to ask the united states to change their plan. excuse me, but let's have some respect for each other. first of all, instead of whining, let us rejoice that the united states wants to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2030. in fact, if we panic, it is because we finally realise that the european union was founded on a pseudo-economic software which is dying of its own accord, and that, of course, we must have a policy of defence against competition, but that, in order to make industrial policy and the ecological transition, we need subsidies, we need planning, we need strong public authorities and sometimes we must protect these industries. so europe has to mourn, but it must do so quickly, because industrial policy and the ecological transition cannot wait.
author. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have the pleasure today of introducing, on behalf of our left group in the european parliament, our initiative for a debate on inflation and its consequences for the most vulnerable in europe. this choice has political significance for us. in this parliament we talk a lot about theoretical matters, but we rarely talk about people's daily lives, the problems they face and their daily lives. this is precisely the reality we want to bring to the european parliament today. i personally will never be able to accept the coldness of the figures and economic aggregates that we read in the newspapers. moreover, we should not say that inflation has reached 10% on average in the euro area, nor that pasta and oil have risen by 20%. we should not say that real wages fell by 2.4% in the first half of the year in the european union. we should be cutting out the long list of children who don't eat enough. we should describe the distress of students or precarious workers who skip meals and struggle to keep warm. the number of lives upended, dreams shattered, projects not realised - that is the reality we should be talking about in this parliament. however, while some were struggling, others were prospering. we also need to talk about the other side of this failed economic model. for the past two years, record profits and dividends paid to shareholders have been falling one after the other: almost 30% increase in one year in dividends for large european companies, and the year that is ending looks even more fruitful. the same goes for the salaries of the big bosses, who are constantly pushing the boundaries of indecency. in short, the rich are getting richer, the poor are getting poorer, and this is the direct consequence of political choices. indeed, this shock of inflation would be much less severe if wages were indexed throughout europe. you should be aware of this, mr gentiloni, but perhaps the european commissioners and ministers are too much in the open, in the warmth of their lavish salaries, to notice that people all over the european union are struggling and failing to make ends meet. we are told that wage increases will feed inflation. it's not true. even the imf, which our left-wing group is not in the habit of mentioning here in this forum, proves the contrary. it is speculation and the appetite of shareholders that artificially inflate prices, not workers' wages. and what do you do about it? so yes, there is a micro-tax on super profits, and promises never kept of price freezes. your choices have consequences: everything you don't take from the richest or from the multinationals, you will take from the poorest, who will pay the price, who are already paying the price, with vat increases and the abandonment of public services. as if that were not enough, the european central bank is running amok: it is simultaneously sharply raising its key interest rates, at the risk of provoking a general recession and an explosion of unemployment in europe. there were obvious solutions, however, which were systematically ignored by you, mr gentiloni, and by the european commission as a whole. there will be no mention of targeted price controls, let alone liberal taboos. tax the wealth of the richest to redistribute it? a heresy, that's what it is! all these measures would be far more effective than any increase in the key rates and far more sustainable than any premium or any energy cheque. in the same way, to take some public goods out of the market, again: chut! let's not talk about it. instead, the commission and its liberal allies are organising the great return of austerity. instead of taxing the rich, you prefer to purge public services, methodically dismantle social protection and attack pension systems, like emmanuel macron in france. so, in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, in this temple of consensus which is the european parliament, it is fashionable to drown political differences in the culture of compromise. nevertheless, i say to all those who bear responsibility for the current disaster, including certain political groups here and to you, commissioner gentiloni: stop hiding behind your liberal, educated pontiffs to justify your war against the poorest, because behind the numbers, lives are at stake. don't be the expert-accountants of the people's misery.
madam president, the successive increases in consumer prices, particularly for products such as fuel and food, are contributing to the increase in the rate of inflation. do you know how much eggs, potatoes, milk, fish, meat and electricity cost? basic necessities are a luxury for many families, for large families, for single-parent families, for students, for people on low incomes. we have a social emergency. the workers earn less and live worse, the wages do not rise. the self-employed and the producers? the vulnerable households? overloaded and the commission wants to go back to austerity. in my country, galicia, poverty has increased. the price crisis is having an unprecedented impact on the lower classes, aggravated by the dependence on the productive, fishing and agricultural sectors and aggravated by the lack of support from governments. this is again a great fraud against the populations. the rich get richer and the multinationals get richer and richer. this has to stop, because a lot of people get in the way. now the commission should lower interest rates. we need structural changes in the economy. whoever has more, pay more. on sunday, in the streets of santiago de compostela, the demonstration for the price crisis will again say that we need alternatives.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the crisis, let us first establish responsibilities. in the immediate future, we are talking about the war in ukraine and also about the brainwashed energy sanctions, which everyone knew would cause economic disaster. in the past, it was neoliberalism, free trade, globalism and its cortege of offshoring and financial inflation. but all this, ladies and gentlemen, was the policy of the european union long before 2022. the first solution is, contrary to what ursula von der leyen is doing, to stop supporting the dramatic conflict in ukraine. the sooner peace is found, the better. it is also urgent to correct an absurd sanctions regime which only harms europe and europeans. then we'll talk about the pay. through mass immigration, like the massive regularization bill that is emerging in france, european governments are deliberately maintaining a downward pressure on wages. we have to stop this. the national rally has long proposed a 10% increase in real wages in exchange for a tax exemption. it also proposes to help households in need by lowering vat on energy to 5.5% and removing it from 100 basic products. if speculation must finally be stopped, then yes, let us attack the speculators who play on commodity prices, but also those who, like george soros, become multi-billionaires by speculating on the value of currencies, leading countries to austerity and people to poverty. it is true that soros and his networks infest the european institutions, whose current events show us that corruption is rampant. so let's raise wages, but also stop mass immigration and hunt down the profiteers of the crisis!
mr president, the cost of living is skyrocketing. inflation is widespread in the economy. now they're demanding higher wages and benefits. to pay for that, many are here to shout: let's save the little guy by taxing corporations! you still don't realize that the tax on business is ultimately paid by the customer, at the checkout a kind of hidden sales tax. additional government support, such as price caps, is also a hopeless solution. that will only increase demand, keeping prices high. just let the energy market do its job and finally invest in additional supply of reliable and affordable energy. where can the eu and the member states help? cut into your own flesh. choose a smaller government, a smaller eu. because more eu is not the solution to our problems, but the cause of our problems.
a uachtaráin, putin's unjustified invasion of ukraine continues and, consequently, europe is grappling with the unprecedented increase in the cost of living. households across all member states are struggling to stay warm this winter and to pay their bills. we are at a crisis point and the reality is that without immediate action, the situation will continue to worsen. the eu must ensure that concrete measures and supports are put in place to protect businesses and households from inflation. we cannot allow putin to weaponise our energy supply. it is imperative that we are pragmatic in our approach to tackling the crisis. i previously expressed my support for the introduction of windfall policies, but we should keep emergency interventions such as price caps separate from the overall market design. we can provide investor certainty and protect consumers by incentivising long term contracts such as contracts for difference and power purchase agreements. this both removes the risk for investments and also protects consumers from price spikes. of course, in the long term we must prioritise our transition away from fossil fuels and the swift deployment of renewable energy.
madam president, commissioner, 2.4%, according to the international labour organisation, is the decline in real wages in europe in the first half of 2022. behind this figure are lives, thousands of families, and of course it is the poorest and most vulnerable who, from a social and environmental point of view, are the most affected. this is the reality. logically, we should recommend wage increases, but this time it is not based on fear, but on a theory called the "price-wage loop", which would cause a surge in inflation. yet even the international monetary fund tells us that such a loop does not exist. it even tells us that it has never existed in such a context. so today we must recommend raising wages, but also, as paul tang has so well said, finding money to provide better support, with generous budgetary policies. i know that the european commission, and you in particular, mr gentiloni, are very open about this. perhaps we can leave the ftt aside if it doesn't work and move to a tax on financial products, and tax especially wealth and the richest. why not do what the americans do, tax stock buybacks?
madam president, the price increases we are experiencing are particularly cruel, because they affect first and foremost basic necessities: energy and food. energy prices are exploding because of the absurd rules of the european electricity market and the deliberate sabotage of the nuclear sector, which guaranteed us cheap energy. the global rush, which has led us to renounce the production of our own food, makes our food supply dependent on foreign supplies and exposes us to external conflict, such as the one that has broken out in ukraine. in the face of this dramatic situation, the european union is showing its impotence. for more than a year now, the reform of the european electricity market has been a dream that will never come true. the commission's proposal to cap gas at a stratospheric price is an affront to our fellow citizens, who will suffer from the cold this winter. this exceptional situation calls for urgent measures at the level of each state, not endless conciliations in brussels. countries that have chosen to act on their own are succeeding in protecting their people. spain and portugal pay three times less for electricity than the other eu countries. the italians, the dutch, the germans and the poles can breathe a little easier, thanks to the reduction in vat on energy. there are immediate and effective solutions. they only require a little political courage. we must lower taxes on energy and basic foodstuffs. we must end wage stagnation by offering a win-win pact to companies, which must be exempted from charges when they increase their employees. all these measures are financed by taxing the superprofits which result directly from the price explosion. it is not acceptable that a few people should enrich themselves through widespread speculation in vital commodities, while proper food and warmth become a luxury for many.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the veto on the establishment of a common european debt; the veto on the gas price ceiling; the veto of the entry of certain countries into the schengen area; the european parliament has been a party to the european parliament's resolution on the situation in ukraine. a european union that is prey to nationalism and selfishness in turn does not work. that is why, in order to put an end to the iron fist between brussels and the member states and between them, we must finally abolish the right of veto and build a genuine supranational democracy. the citizens of europe are asking us today to make decisions quickly on the most important issues, namely completing the energy union, increasing social security and wages, defending the rule of law, and creating a common european defence. the conference on the future of europe and the resolution adopted by this parliament last june point the way forward in this respect: the european council in madrid in december last year stressed the need to strengthen the european union's relations with the countries of central and eastern europe. i also say by building different levels of integration, allowing those who want to do more to do more without preventing those who want to do less together. the countries which want to go forward must be able to do so, a united europe can do more, better and faster. we listen to the demands of the european citizens and we do not veto the future of the new generations.
mr president, commissioner, the europe of vetoes is the europe of inaction, delays, blackmail and disappointment. this is ridiculous. at the recent conference on the future of europe, citizens called for european defence, an energy union and global power. all this is now denied by the vetoes of some and the hypocrisy of others. orbán's hungary is the most glaring example of this, of course, but it is not the only one. the problem is much deeper, because the practice of veto pollutes minds and disrupts systems. this drift is particularly apparent in the european council, which absorbs all the important decisions and extends the practice of consensus, and thus the veto, well beyond the letter of the treaties. immigration is a prime example. we could make a lot of decisions by majority vote, but we've been in a stalemate for years. less efficiency, less democracy and less transparency. if you read the treaties, ladies and gentlemen, the role of the ministers is considerable. if you look at the practice, since the president of the european council is permanent, it is the 'sherpacracy' that has the power. it's the sherpas, not the ministers. so this should also be a problem for the council of ministers. this year we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the single market. well, if we had kept the vetoes, we would still be waiting for the first decision on freedom of movement. i told the council you don't know what we're asking. you do not know the application on the european electoral law; you do not know the request for treaty amendment; you do not know the request for the activation of the gateway clauses; you are not aware of the request for a revision of the principle of european political parties. you must learn to respect the european parliament a little more and have the courage to say yes or no to our demands.
the intervention requested by the blue card draw. so, my dear colleague, you would defend the european union against the member states? well, the european union is made up of member states, without member states there is no european union. and your colleague said in the introduction that the european parliament is the only democratically elected body. so what about the council? so there are representatives of legally elected, democratically elected national governments, and this in an election that has twice as many people voting as the european parliament election. so they have twice the democratic potential of this house. so you are not defending the european union, but you are defending your positions and policies that you want to impose on people who do not want those policies.
blue-card reply. – i am not sure i have seen a question here, but i will try to give an answer. i never said that the council, the european council or the council of ministers is less legitimate than the european parliament, i said the european parliament plays a role, but no, i didn’t say that. but i don’t understand why we should not apply the treaty. and at the moment we are not applying the treaty because this shift, that push towards the european council, prevents the council of ministers and the european parliament from doing their job according to the letter of the treaty. that is the first question. the second question i mean, who did say that deciding by majority is less democratic than deciding by unanimity? who said the opposite?
mr president, dear smaller member states, by size or by population, i know you have always fought fiercely for national vetoes and i simply do not understand it. we have all witnessed recently how national vetoes have dramatically been to the advantage of the few bad guys in the room. national vetoes have been used in bad faith against european interests. they have been an instrument to pressure you against your own will when you were deciding on essential european policies together. they have made your efforts to find common ground more fragile and all of this has threatened our security. it has also allowed the misuse of the money of european citizens. and some important files became simple pawns in a cynical gambling game. and why? smaller member states should not fear the end of unanimity, europe has grown and changed. you can protect your interests through qualified majority, and you have proven that you are good at finding these majorities when needed. throughout this term, i have had the most respect for the czech presidency, the finnish presidency, the portuguese presidency. you were the ones that brought everyone around the table to talk about difficult topics and try to make progress. and you were the ones that engaged sincerely with parliament. do not fear the end of unanimity. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card speech. – so you said ‘bad guys’ use the veto. well recently two countries – austria and netherlands – stopped, vetoed bulgaria and romania, for 11 years now, for their own reasons: because of the economy, because of transportation, because of their economical reasons. so please tell me, are these countries bad guys, netherlands and austria? please, i want to hear you.
blue-card reply. – no they’re not because they did it with good faith. i’m serious! i’m serious! when vetoes are used when the country is not interested in the real content of the policies and it’s just using it to have deals on another topic, that is very problematic. that’s why i think that those that are using it in good faith are weakening their own work, and that’s why i’m saying that they are good enough now to find majorities and they would not need it. they could do without it because they can find majorities.
blue-card reply. – ok, he’s from belgium. if you want to discuss geography, we can of course. but still, mr verhofstadt is very patient to defend brussels, not the national states. that’s why we are political opponents. but geography is geography, yes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, representative of the council, the european union needs real leaders or, in their absence, good governance. unfortunately, there are those who use unanimity for blackmail and for other cases, such as the veto of romania's entry into the schengen area, for purely internal reasons, for populist reasons. the problem is not therefore one of unanimity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is noted that the own resources decision had to be amended in order to constitute nextgenerationeu. this implied a double unanimity, that is, unanimity in the council and also in the national parliaments. and that unanimity was achieved. in addition to the unanimous vote in certain cases, which is justified, there is also a need to speed up the procedures. speed is essential. if we are now discussing unanimity, which then passes to a qualified majority, we must not forget that if one or two people are voting against today, in the future we may well have more than two or three or four who can form that qualified majority. what the citizens of the european union should be demanding is quality governance that does not tamper with the existing rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not know whether you are familiar with the film with bill murray, which often takes place around christmas time and is called a day without end or groundhog day, in which a character lives and relives the same day over and over again. i have to admit that when we have a debate on the veto and unanimity, that's kind of how i feel. i have the impression that we are going to have the same debate again, with the same conclusions and the same demands. i even wonder sometimes what i'm going to try to say again, because i try to say new things every now and then, and i say to myself, "but what can i say again?" other unfortunately, i have to admit that today there is a lot to be said, because parliament specifically asked you, dear council and dear commission, not to compromise on the rule of law and not to give in to the blackmail of the hungarian government on the taxation of multinationals. what do we see? a package of measures and above all a faustian pact. i wonder how we will get out of this, because this time it is not blackmailing a directive on taxation, it is much more serious, it is about aid to ukraine. so that's another precedent. actually, this time, i think you've heard enough. we need to hear you, because you have to give an account to us.
mr president, you said earlier - and i thank you very much for that - that the principle of the veto was contrary to democratic principles. you were right to recall this, because the principle of the veto goes back a long way in our history. it was often in the hands of monarchs, who tried to oppose the power of parliaments and the expression of the general will. i would simply like to turn to the council. i am not asking you to agree with me, mr bek, because your position forbids you to do so, but simply to reflect on what we have learned about the separation of powers. we have all learned that the legislative and the executive cannot be confused in the same hands. the problem we have in this emerging european democracy is that the council acts both as a co-legislator, that is to say, it allows itself to vote laws by majority, and at the same time, as a branch of the executive that has the capacity to block the votes of the general expression of the european parliament. it's not possible. no democracy in the world can function with a veto power in the hands of one state, when the majority of states want to intervene as co-legislators, like parliament. you're either a legislator or an executive. if you are the representative of the executive of parliament, then you must respect the votes of parliament. what i am asking for, and this is really the conclusion, is that the council acts as a true legislator and votes by majority when it disagrees, like all legislators in all parliaments in the world.
mr president, in the founding treaty of the european union, the member states freely decided on the areas in which competence was transferred, which competence they shared and which they retained. as the texts currently stand, the use of the right of veto in certain areas is therefore legitimate, for the protection of vital interests, but not as a bargaining chip or a pretext. as a final example, i would remind you that hungary first signed the oecd agreement on the taxation of multinationals, before going back on its word and blocking the process for several months, on a very important issue, in order to obtain a currency of exchange. unanimity or qualified majority voting is not a technical measure. it was recalled before me. it is a decision which is highly political and which, in essence, reveals our idea of the european union. the world is changing, and we must change to keep up. in the face of the challenges facing the world, our union must speak with one voice and act or react swiftly. we must give up unanimity, which pits the member states against each other, when we must stand up to each other.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission would like to thank the european parliament for this intense debate, which confirms the strong wish of a majority of this parliament to move away from unanimity and to take decisions faster on some important topics in a union with 27 member states. i hope that the three institutions can continue engaging with each other on this issue, to improve the way we jointly take decisions. the commission stands ready to fully play its role in this process.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, judging from most interventions at today’s debate, it is clear that the issue of unanimity in council decision—making is a passionate topic for this parliament, but also far from consensual. to those who spoke so fervently in favour of abolishing unanimity as the solution for the stalemate in eu decision—making, let me tell you that the reality is a lot more nuanced. i have got quite a lot of experience in that field over the last semester. although qualified majority voting is the rule, the eu remains an institution that favours unity, consensus and compromise over division and isolation. when the willingness to work together is present, unanimity requirements are not an issue, as many decisions taken this year in reaction to the war in ukraine have shown. conversely, the fact that the qualified majority voting applies to a certain policy area is not a synonym for progress. mr verhofstadt spoke of the asylum reform as an example of blockage and vetoes. but migration and asylum is a policy area where the council decides by qualified majority, on asylum policy, and yet progress has been painstakingly slow, so even qualified majority does not necessarily bring speed. some of you have also mentioned taxation policy. let me remind you that the council has achieved much in recent years. examples of these achievements are numerous in all areas of tax policy: the anti-tax avoidance directive; a number of significant improvements in administrative cooperation in the field of direct and indirect taxation; and numerous amendments to the vat directive. we should also not assume that it is only small or medium—sized member states that use the veto. big member states do as well, as we have seen on a number of occasions in the past. therefore, honourable members, allow me to conclude on a positive note. while the risk of blockage in our decision—making is a reality, one should nevertheless look at the global picture. the eu finds a way to take decisions in the great majority of files. the eu is highly present and relevant on the international scene, bringing responses and relief where it’s needed and leading by example in most areas of global action. we managed to achieve all this by overcoming our national divergences. thank you very much once again for your attention.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the defence of democracy against foreign influence, by raphaël glucksmann, on behalf of the special committee on foreign influence on all democratic processes in the european union, including disinformation (inge 2) (o-000048/2022 b9-0032/22) (2022/2910 ((rsp)).
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. will we be able to draw on our strength to defend democracy and the construction of europe? or are we going to let corruption and laziness lead our cities to ruin? corruption is not just a bag of bills. it is more broadly the obliteration of the general interest before the particular interests, the triumph of comfort over virtue, the victory of habits over courage. lulling by the myth of the end of history, convinced that they no longer have any enemies, certain of the inevitability of liberal democracy, our elites have let their guard down for too long. when the city guards were asleep, the corrupt ones sold the keys to the house and the enemy took it. we have been sounding the alarm for over two years with the special committee on foreign interference. the time has come today to take our collective broom and clean the stables of augia. ladies and gentlemen, in one month and two plenary sessions you have seen the materialization of everything we have denounced and analysed since the beginning of our work. at the end of november, our parliament was targeted by russian hackers. now these are the suitcases of qatar tickets. we must show that our political scene is not a market where doha, baku, moscow or beijing can come and shop. these men and women who have been in power in the union and have put themselves at the service of foreign tyrannies are traitors. how could we tolerate this? how could it be tolerated, for example, that those who decided on germany's energy policy, which was so favourable to russia, then sold themselves to gazprom? how could we accept that so many of our heads of state or government, our ministers and parliamentarians, from all countries and all parties, have their pensions paid for by the putin regime? what about all those former european politicians who now serve chinese interests? what about all those high-paying conferences in doha, or those consulting activities in baku? this is not a question of morality, but of politics. i'm not talking about high principles, but about sovereignty being trampled on. mr commissioner, our oral question was written before the scandal that has shocked us, but it resonates terribly with the present. on 14 september, the president of the commission announced the adoption of a pact for the defence of democracy. the aim, she said, was to highlight foreign influence and shady financing. i continue to quote mrs von der leyen: 'we will not allow the trojan horses of the autocracies to attack our democracies from within.' that is the heart of the matter. the european trojan horses of the autocracies must be put out of harm's way. we therefore want to know more about the content of this initiative and its timing. in the hybrid war being waged against the european union, how will this pact provide us with effective weapons to protect our democracies against all forms of foreign interference, from the financing of political activities to information manipulation campaigns or hostile investments in our strategic sectors? in her speech, the president of the commission made a solemn promise to eradicate corruption within the union. how will the announced strengthening of anti-corruption rules be linked to this pact for the defence of democracy? will the new rules that have been promised take account of all those european leaders who have gone to serve the interests of foreign powers? as you know, on 16 september 2021, this parliament adopted a resolution calling for the establishment of an independent european body for ethics. what about this request? we're running out of time. we all know that in the fight against corruption and foreign interference, we have no right to be weak or to procrastinate. so any bold move will find here a definite support. any break with past or present indolence will find fervent support. together we must show that democracy, when it wakes up and stops sleeping, is beautiful and powerful.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, this house is caught in the crosswind of qatargate, but there is more to it than that. for years we have been appalled by the pro-russian speeches on the far right and the far left of this house. since 24 february, these speeches have been a pseudo-pacifism, which only helps the aggressor and calls for the surrender of the aggressed. however, russian interference is not the only thing our house is exposed to. since the beginning of my mandate, i have been amazed to discover the enthusiasm of islamist associations close to the gulf and turkey, but also of american evangelicals, hostile to women's rights, who are nevertheless received with great pomp in this building. the fact is that foreign interests are trying to manipulate us and, in the last few days, we have learned that they are sometimes prepared to pay the price. so i invite us to sweep our front door, and to shed light on all the manipulators and all the manipulated. let us ask ourselves: those who describe qatar as a beacon of human rights, those who refuse to see that russia supports terrorism, do they have only convictions, or do they have bank accounts? we must act to find the answer to this question, act not to suffer, investigate not just to denounce. it is a war that is being waged against our democracies to influence and weaken them. in this war, we must learn to strike back, no matter who or what the instrument of manipulation is. in the face of misinformation, it is more than time to act and more than just lament the harm that is done to us. it is time for the european union to develop a strategic communication worthy of the name. in the face of the exorbitant power of social media - if twitter, for example, becomes the open sewer of hate and fake news - let's not tremble and enforce our rules. let's learn to get respect. we have been renters of democracy and the rule of law. it's time we became the warriors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the serious suspicions of corruption by qatar concerning members and assistants of the european parliament have made the vulnerability of the european institutions to foreign interference even more evident. we urgently need countermeasures to protect our democracy from outside interference. the granting of money and benefits from foreign actors is a widespread practice to buy the benevolence of individuals, groups or entire political forces and to interfere in democratic and decision-making processes. as the 5 star movement we have always denounced the phenomena of elite capture and cooptation by foreign entities who recruit those who have or have had political positions and top institutional roles, in order to take advantage of them to the detriment of the interests of eu citizens and member states. the european commission will then present a package of proposals as soon as possible, following the recommendations of the final report of the inge committee; the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i thank commissioner hahn for the clear words with which he has introduced this debate. never before has this year been more clear about how dangerous misinformation can be and how vulnerable an advanced civilization like ours is when misinformation is brought into our society from outside. we must also admit that no other week has shown as much as this week that the political system in particular is a platform for foreign influence, disinformation, destabilisation of our societies, and even the questioning of democracy and the rule of law, the questioning of our values. i therefore agree with our president, mrs roberta metsola, and with our first vice-president, mr othmar karas, that the lack of character which has been expressed here must be rejected, that it needs legal consequences, that it needs political consequences, and that it needs, of course, what is the true measure of a democracy, namely consequences in the decision of the citizens about their representation in elections. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the word 'responsibility' also has the word 'answer' and we must all be able to answer that.
mr. chairman, please. corruption and corruption. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: elected officials who have failed to live up to the trust that the voters have placed in them. yes, that is part of what we have seen this week in the biggest scandal ever in this parliament. that's not part of a democracy. it does not belong in the european union and it certainly does not belong in this parliament. for too long, autocratic regimes have attacked our democracy, but they are now arming it further, including on social media, with disinformation and corruption in our parliament. but also in other areas. but to see bags of money in exchange for supporting the vile interests of hostile powers is so problematic. we have to do something about it. there's a lot of things we have to do. first, we must ensure that we, the elected representatives, live up to the trust of the electorate. it requires a new set of rules in the house, but it also requires a change in our culture. secondly, we must, among other things, tackle the disinformation we see taking place online, which is solely aimed at destabilising our societies. we have taken a big step in the fight against disinformation online with the digital services regulation, and that is very good, but i think more is needed. we must take a hard line against both the powers that try to destroy our democracy from outside and the elected representatives who try to destroy our democracy from within through corruption. our democracy is under attack, and that requires us to take a whole range of initiatives, not just against disinformation, but also in relation to cybersecurity and so on. we still have a long way to go, but we have to do it. there is only one way to ensure our own interests, and that is to have a proper democracy.
mr president, whatever significant progress we make as humanity, our human nature will not change. so for those who say the problem with foreign interference is the poor, bad, moral or ethical judgment of some individuals, i advise them to re—read the book of genesis. it was mankind eating the apple, and mankind will continue to be tempted. the real problem is, of course, that a permissive security environment exists in brussels and in strasbourg, where our adversaries operate in the heart of our democracy in order to interfere with it. until recently, we had a china friendship group with a secretary—general from china who acted, paid by this house, and was authorised to work here. similar groups exist for qatar and other states. russian interns walked the floors of this house. we still allow meps to travel to third countries, irrespective of who pays the bills. our it systems are vulnerable for espionage, and therefore external pressure on members. our security organisation is under—equipped, commissioner, and hardly staffed to the level we need. yes, justice must have its way with individuals and corrupt individuals must be punished, but this house urgently needs to create a non—permissive counter intelligence environment so that our adversaries don’t even dare to interfere with us.
mr president, we already knew about the terrible influence of china in our universities. a senate report in france has clearly documented it. chinese student spies or some officials are monitoring research to impose their narrative on the issues of the uyghurs or taiwan. some researchers were even pressured by the heads of the universities to delete criticism towards the chinese government and to use alternative wording in certain publications or conferences. but now we know that even worse is happening. there is proof that there is a far—reaching network of overseas chinese police stations established in many of our member states – in france, in spain, in greece. chinese citizens who found refuge in these countries are tracked by the chinese police and forced into returning back to china. this is also happening in the netherlands and ireland, which have launched investigations, and this is happening in hungary and serbia. but both of these countries are denying these allegations and are not preventing this from happening. that is how bad the level of foreign interference has become in the european union and in neighbour countries.
mr president, for years this parliament has been running amok with impunity against our political group, forcing the foreign interference discourse without providing any tangible evidence. the only weapons at the disposal of the glucksmann and loiseau associates were to string together accusations that bordered on defamation, forgetting that if voters have been plebisciting our party for fifty years, it is precisely because it defends only one nation, france. unfortunately for them, when serious institutions like the judiciary decide to take matters into their own hands, they turn to your socialist group. to drown your responsibilities and include us in a scandal which concerns only you, you call this a foreign attack on democracy and this european parliament. in reality, it is simply a corruption scandal involving the socialist group. i therefore ask that the ing2 committee, which has preferred to attack our group at every meeting, without seeing the corruption that was taking place in those same offices, be suspended immediately, that its chairman be held accountable and that all the members who have made false accusations finally clear their door.
mr president, while a serious scandal is exposing foreign interference through corruption in the bureau of the european parliament, restraint and decency are definitely not the hallmarks of this house. while the commission stands as the guardian of an order that is beyond criticism and spends its time reprimanding member states that refuse to align, its scandalous interference in the internal affairs of the member states has been silenced. in the series on the rule of law in hungary, it has just confirmed the financial withholding on the hungarian cohesion funds, under the rule of law conditionality. without a direct electoral mandate, without consulting the people, it alone defines the good and pushes ever further its federalist and destructive programme of nations and identities. philippe muray, in his essay l'empire du bien, denounced the establishment of a soft, sweet and gentle totalitarianism, of which this assembly is the perfect example. he wrote: "the good grows fast, gradually closing all the exits and barring the escapes". the commission, as an axiom, wields its conception of the rule of law to impose its overall vision and its economic and societal conceptions. it is these illegitimate interferences, which also endanger the democratic process, that we should be discussing today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the international federation of journalists has already documented 59 murders of media professionals in 2022, 12 more than in 2021. and even more disturbing, nine out of every ten murders of journalists still go unpunished. these are alarming figures, especially when they are also associated with the many incidents of violence and intimidation against those who choose to tell the truth, thereby protecting and strengthening our democracy. freedom of expression, freedom of the media and pluralism are enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the union as well as in the european convention on human rights. it is clear that there is a link between press freedom and the rule of law, because promoting and defending the rule of law also means promoting and defending the freedom of the press and all those who work for it. one thing is certain from today's discussion: the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the fact that the european union is a political force, a political force which is not only a political force but also a political force. freedom of the press is one of the cornerstones of our rule of law and as such must be promoted and defended because there can be no democracy without freedom and pluralism of the media. an attack on the media is an attack on our democracy.
the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. pressure on the media is usually the first symptom of a government's shift toward authoritarianism. the case of the mitsotakis government is typical, which, according to the evaluation of reporters without borders, has imposed the greatest restrictions on media freedom among the 27 states of the european union and greater restrictions than those in the western balkans. mitsotakis, of course, questions the validity of reporters without borders, but this ngo is a partner of the european parliament. i am a member of the european parliament whose phones are being monitored on the orders of mr mitsotakis, as is also the case with my colleague mr androulakis of the socialist group. first, the surveillance of journalists began, and then it was extended to politicians. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the media are not restricted, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we must all react together.
madam president, freedom of the press and media pluralism, without which there is simply no democracy, are no longer protected in many member states. european provisions are therefore needed. let's take a look around. hungary, 85th out of 180 in the reporters without borders ranking for 2022. the kesma foundation brings together 500 national and local media in the blind service of the government, in total opacity on public funds. the european commission says there is nothing it can do. maybe we can prevent this from happening elsewhere: oligarchs who buy media and donate it to a government. greece, 108th in the rankings. a journalist shot dead outside his home, a stalled investigation and known police violence against journalists covering refugees, protest and corruption. malta, the 78th. little progress was made in the investigation into the murder of daphne caruana galizia, whereas in slovakia justice was effective in the case of ján kuciak and was no longer hampered by politics after a while. specificity of the maltese law: relatives inherit lawsuits against journalists. france, the 26th. here, it is the private sector that is the problem: extreme concentration of the media, ten shareholders own 81% of the national daily newspapers and 95% of the weekly newspapers. the bolloré group censors, bans publications, accumulates lawsuits and insults certain politicians.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the current challenges require concrete measures – including, of course, the revision and upscaling of the multiannual financial framework. we need a budget that offers solutions to the current needs that enables us to manage the different crises, including inflation, the energy crises and social and regional disparities. we call, of course, for more flexibility in the annual eu budgeting, new own resources, but also to become more efficient in the use of available funds. we have to make sure that the current eu programmes are functioning properly, so therefore beneficiaries of eu funds from programmes like erasmus+, the active europe programme or the european solidarity corps, but also from structural funds, are waiting for us to provide the solutions to continue to implement their projects. today, it is more difficult than ever for students to go on erasmus mobility. it is complicated for an artist to implement a cultural programme or for ngos, social partners and local authorities to co-finance their projects. we must also focus resources on the actions that directly help eu citizens to deal with the increases of living costs, to upskill and to get access to quality education and health services. we need to be fair and open about what needs to happen. transparency and fighting against corruption are key elements. no more ‘frugals’ versus ‘cohesion countries’. it is about all of us getting through the current crisis together and not leaving anyone behind. i am glad the european parliament thinks ahead and plans for the mff revision.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the revision of the multiannual budget is an urgent matter, it is a matter of record. the european commission, with its proposals for repowereu, for secure connectivity, for semiconductors, the proposal for a sovereign fund to strengthen strategic autonomy, has shown that it is changing the multiannual financial framework, is cutting some programmes and is making reallocation. it is therefore clear to everyone that the multiannual financial framework must be changed, revised and strengthened. evidence that is an emergency, as i said. what needs to be done is to strengthen european programmes in the areas of health, digital, energy, security, defence. if we don't, we're going to pay dearly. we are seeing what the european union is paying for not having an energy union. for all this we also need our own resources, new revenue which does not harm and which helps to provide new resources.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one lesson we have learned from the russian war in ukraine, it is that our dependencies are our weaknesses. energy is one of them. other products include chips, batteries, raw materials, photovoltaic panels and chemicals. but these addictions cost us a little more every day. the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that the swedish battery group northvolt, spain's iberdrola, one of the world's largest energy companies, france's safran, one of the main suppliers of aircraft engines, and the german chemical giant basf are all announcing in a cascade that they are going to redirect their investments to the united states. the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that our industrial fabric is being torn apart. it is being torn apart by energy prices, which are of course the result of our energy naivete, which has led to our dependence on hydrocarbons from the urals. our industrial fabric is also being torn apart by our inability to match the big players in this world: the united states, which is launching a big subsidy scheme, and china, which is overprotecting its companies. so i have a question for everyone in this chamber: when will we ever get out of our naiveté? when will we realise that it is not by applying again and again the same old recipes which have led to our addiction that we will make europe stronger, more able to grow its businesses, but above all more able to keep its businesses at home? commissioner, do you propose an ambitious revision of this multiannual financial framework? offer us this sovereign fund; but i beg you, give it real means, because with such redispatchments no one will be fooled, neither our contractors nor our investors.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, two years ago, when the member states agreed on the budget, it was before the war in ukraine. this was before the humanitarian, social, economic, migration and energy crises that followed. that was before the terrible inflation. today, crises are here. they combine and they are part of the duration. they represent a real challenge in terms of giving ourselves the budgetary capacity to cope better with the accidents of history, while keeping pace with the strategic ambitions of cohesion, reindustrialisation, energy transition and the fight against poverty. the solution, in fact, is well known: a large european budget, with large own tax resources and greater autonomy vis-à-vis the states. the financial transaction tax alone is an additional €50 billion. we must put it in place today, without delay.
madam president, please. the report aims to review the financial framework 2021-2027, but its substantive implementation has not yet started. the new cap will only start in 2023, with nothing from the new cohesion funds yet and only €136 billion from the recovery funds paid out by the union. in this situation, where there are no results yet to be evaluated, there is no justification to request a review. take cohesion tools, for example. it's almost 2023, and yet we're still making payments from the previous period, 2014-20. the conclusion of new partnership agreements has been very slow and we can look forward to at least the payment of the advances in the first half of next year. the question arises, then, why are member states not getting the eu funds they are entitled to? the answer is unnecessary administrative burdens, politically motivated rule of law blackmail, excessive conditionality that makes payments difficult. we should be working on dismantling these. we don't have time to waste. in the face of the new economic crisis, it is essential that member states have access to their funds as soon as possible.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, when we adopted the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, we adopted it together with next generation eu. next generation eu and the budget together allow for more spending, more investments than ever at the level of the european union. but these two together are bigger than previous budgets. but, because of next generation eu, we decided to cut the budget narrower than before, and there are areas in the budget where the funding is insufficient simply because the budget, the headings, the lines are smaller than before. of course, it would be wrong to always ask for bigger budgets, like it is also wrong to always ask for smaller budgets. the right thing to do for us now in the context of the revision of the multiannual financial framework is to look concretely where we can improve things, where we can do better. and one proposal is the following: in the budget we have included the repayment of the interest rate for next generation eu. we do not know exactly how much interest rate we will have to pay in each year, and including that inside the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework means that we have an amount there which can grow and, if it grows, it becomes a risk for priorities of the budget and it also becomes a risk for our capacity to react in situations of crisis. the more we spend for interest rates inside the budget, the more we have for our real priorities, for our real policies and for helping people in need in times of crisis. and this is why i would like to reiterate what already is an official position of the parliament to have the repayment of next generation eu interest payments outside the ceilings of the budget. other than that, of course, we have to make sure that we allow for more flexibility in the context of this revision and that we really look at those lines in which we had unexpected crises, foreign policy, migration, borders, where the money that we provided is not enough,concrete solutions for concrete problems, this is what we demand.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing two crises which can have catastrophic consequences if our policies and our budget, our mff, do not measure up. the first crisis is the price spike linked to the war in ukraine. tonight, millions of citizens will be cold on their way home. millions of our friends will be cold. millions of women and men have to choose every day between heating their homes normally and going to the grocery store normally to feed their families. if the price of energy remains too high for too long, we risk catastrophic relocations. the other crisis is climate change. in 2022, heat waves, wildfires, wildfires and floods have killed tens of thousands of people around the world. the common denominator in both crises is the need for money and budget. to deal with the consequences of the war in ukraine, the united states has put 400 billion dollars in subsidies on the table for the law on reducing inflation. and could we not do the same, to help all the families and businesses that need it and to finance europe's strategic autonomy? many countries disagree with a european plan and block it, saying they don't know how to pay back next generation, the plan we adopted to deal with covid-19. the good news is that the european parliament is proposing solutions to the three problems: if the tax on speculation, which parliament has been calling for for years, is finally introduced, we could have 57 billion a year. now, if we have 57 billion every year, we can pay back next generation 12 billion every year for 30 years. we can fund an anti-inflation plan and a climate plan for 37 billion every year. my friends, the speculation tax is urgently needed. (the president cut the speaker off)
i keep saying: my friends, it is not necessary to have unanimity, it is enough to have a stronger cooperation to create the tax on speculation, which would give 57 billion every year and allow us to avoid social chaos and climate chaos. so i don't know what we're waiting for.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. only yesterday, mr david leger of the epp led the negotiations, the very harmonious and consensual negotiations on the resolution on which we are going to vote tomorrow. i'm sorry he can't be here today as a co-author. let's get down to business. i believe that the nationwide protests in china against the so-called zero-covid policy of the chinese leadership represent an event of historical significance. there has been a change in the relationship between the oppressive regime and the oppressed people. for decades, there had been no nationwide protest. for decades, people from all walks of life had not been able to protest together. and for decades, there had been no such demands made directly to the central officials in beijing. the beijing leadership itself has made this great protest happen. and the prospect of chinese freedom, which at the moment seems so far away, has been strengthened and brought closer by these protests.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, in the light of the ongoing criminal investigations into a corrupt network of some individual members, former meps and assistants in the european parliament, the epp group is extremely concerned about the integrity of the foreign policy positions of the european parliament, as expressed in the urgency resolutions and procedures as foreseen in rule 144 of the house. before we can establish with certainty that the integrity of the procedure and the network does not remain compromised by third countries like qatar, we should stop all work on the urgency resolutions. we simply cannot continue with our business as usual. we must take bold and radical decisions to stop the damage of this corrupt network of individual members, former meps, and assistants from spreading further into our parliamentary work. the epp group has therefore decided that it will not sign any urgency resolution, not take part in any preparation, negotiations or plenary debates in the context of the urgency resolutions.
madam president, i would like to raise a point of order. my point of order is the request that ms zovko should be sanctioned because first, she misused a china debate to enact a hypocritical theatre, charging everybody else as culprits in a criminal gang system. and i also want to have her criticised for not even having the respect for her colleagues to wait until the question to her has been asked. i think that is completely objectionable behaviour. she should be sanctioned.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. my notes are there, but after the speaker, you can't just stop your speech for one minute. because what has been said here is outrageous. because we are talking about a dramatic violation of human rights. we have a resolution which is clear in its wording that what we have seen in china, the suppression of freedom of expression, the suppression of women in particular, is strongly condemned. it is our duty, our noble duty as the european parliament, to say this with force. the problem with the scandals we have seen here in the last few days is that we have not fulfilled this duty because we have watered down things. that's exactly what we're not doing here, and that's why this is a different situation. this is where the house has to stand together and say clearly that we are in solidarity with the women and men who are taking to the streets here, who are standing up for their freedom of expression, where we see what happens when you don't have a proper vaccination quota, because you lock people up and take away their freedoms, where there is no freedom of the press, no freedom of expression. the european parliament must have a united position and show solidarity. that is our only competence in foreign policy. let us use them responsibly and not mix things up!
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are testing the courage of a people in the face of a totalitarian regime. for several weeks, the chinese government has seen its youth and population rise up against its zero covid-19 policy. let us not be mistaken: through it, they are turning against the dictatorial regime. the party responded by closing public spaces, closing neighborhoods, removing signage and electronic tracking. always shut up to rule. but their courage has borne fruit. for more than a month, the government announced a relaxation of its anti-covid-19 policy and the suspension of travel enforcement. these advertisements are misleading, however. europe must stand firm and stand with the chinese people as they demonstrate for their most fundamental rights and their quest for freedom. this debate should also encourage us to be more firm in our trade policy in the face of this systemic rival and to work towards greater autonomy in our supply chains. ladies and gentlemen, it is time for all european leaders to take a unanimous stand in favour of the chinese.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as early as may, the world health organization stated that china's zero-tolerance policy on covid-19 is not sustainable. the virus cannot be eradicated by forcibly confining people and nailing down their homes. however, the apartment fire in the city of urumqi in xinjiang province, which tragically killed ten people, has inspired courageous protests across china. peaceful protesters hold up empty sheets of white paper as a symbol of the censorship and political repression that the chinese people are suffering. instead of punishing the people, the authorities should listen to their appeals, allow people to freely express their opinions and protest peacefully without fear of reprisals. the violation of fundamental freedoms and rights in china must be placed at the centre of eu relations with china and be raised openly and transparently at the highest political level, as must the forced abortions and sterilisations of uyghur girls and women, which also constitute a crime against humanity, as we have previously stated.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, yes, the greatest gift that we can do to autocrats all over the world is to stop doing our job in here defending human rights. i will continue in my mother tongue, dutch. heel china gingen ze door, de beelden van de gruwelijke brand in het oeigoerse ürümqi. de chinese bevolking ging de straat op, verenigd tegen het bewind van xi jinping. dit had het moment moeten zijn voor china’s democratisering. maar natuurlijk was het dat niet. natuurlijk draaide beijing de duimschroeven van onderdrukking net nog wat meer aan. die onderdrukking is niet beperkt tot china, hongkong en macau. zelfs in onze europese unie intimideert beijing de diaspora met illegale politiebureaus. krankzinnig. natuurlijk moeten die politiebureaus onmiddellijk op slot. natuurlijk moeten we onze diaspora beschermen. en natuurlijk moeten we de chinese bevolking steunen. hun hang naar vrijheid is zelfs sterker dan xi jinpings onderdrukking. wij hebben hen gehoord, luid en duidelijk. (de spreker aanvaardt een “blauwe kaart”-reactie)
(blue-card reply). – thank you for that question dear colleague. i think it’s of great importance that we continue to do our work despite what’s happening and despite the terrible circumstances that we find ourselves here in this house. and my colleague, mr repasi, already referred to that, we need to stand together as parliament as a whole, together to defend our values in the european union and to support everyone who’s fighting to get the same freedom and the same liberties that we have strived for, for decades. we need to help them. we need to stand by them.
madam president, "we will ease covid-19 restrictions" is a very nice promise from the chinese government, which in reality hides the intensification of repression against all forms of dissent. we have now been witnessing three weeks of historic events. historic in their mass: thousands upon thousands of protesters, who we support, taking to the streets in at least 27 cities in china. historic in content: we haven't seen such a political demonstration in china since tiananmen, with their white banners against censorship and their demands, xi jinping, resign! or we want freedom. other in this war that china says it is waging against covid-19, the weapons and repression are aimed at chinese citizens. we know this well: the biggest enemy of xi jinping's authoritarian regime is not the virus, but his own people. how many other peoples want to be free from chinese rule? i think of the uighurs, the hong kongers, the taiwanese, the tibetans. the list is way too long. let us put an end to this intolerable totalitarianism. the european union has the diplomatic means to do so. unfortunately, we lack the political will.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, freedom has no nationality and no continent. in the heart of the world's greatest dictatorship, thousands of citizens have stood up for their basic and universal rights. in this first great outpouring of han chinese solidarity towards the uighurs, martyred by the regime, we can read what the czech philosopher patočka called "solidarity of the shaken". that's what courage is. that's what love of freedom is. what are we doing? we accept the police stations of the chinese regime on our territory. we accept that the products of slavery are pouring into our markets. we accept that our multinationals make a lot of money with the chinese communist regime. we bow our heads when we speak to xi jinping. so we must learn from the courage of those who took to the streets of shanghai. and now i will continue in english to conclude, to say that it is not because corrupt regimes, autocratic regimes, are corrupting some members and are trying to destabilize our institutions that we should stop having resolutions condemning corrupt and authoritarian regimes. on the contrary, the more qatar, russia and china will start corrupting us, the more we will criticize them. and that is our response to them. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
(blue-card reply) – the fact is that today we are – if we want it or if we don’t want it – connected to this crackdown. how? through the value chain of our companies. through the export of the goods produced by forced labour. for instance, if you take things that we need most of all now for the green deal, which are solar panels, yes? how are they produced? they are produced by uyghur slaves. and why? because we don’t produce them ourselves. so that’s why it’s so important to change, to change the rules of the game so that we can have a market that is free from these goods. if we don’t do it, it means we are collaborating with the repression and the crackdown. that is also why we need these resolutions to point the finger when it hurts, where it hurts, and when we want them to be hurt.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, after the collapse of libya, after the withdrawal of france and the soldiers from operation barkhane, the european union is now taking steps to contribute to the destabilisation of chad. chad hosts a french air base at fort lamy. in n'djamena, he coordinates with the french military forces to fight mafias, jihadist groups and human traffickers. it is true that the european union is not embarrassed by these considerations. she says an african country deserves to be condemned. in my opinion, the european parliament is currently in a very bad position to lecture a government that is negotiating with its opposition, under the auspices of - guess what - qatar. yes, the events of 20 october are a very hard test for all chadians. yes, all victims are to be lamented and regretted. yes, the transformation of these demonstrations into what the chadian authorities consider an insurrection has been the occasion of bloody clashes. i note, however, that the african union has refused to sanction chad. it is urgent that we renew our alliances with african partners who have a tradition of trust with france. while chad declared a food emergency last summer, faced many security challenges in the north and south, and faced the worst floods in its history, this new debate, in my view, is deplorable. open your eyes, ladies and gentlemen: our ideological policy in africa is erasing our friendships and destroying our interests. vote for this resolution, but tomorrow you may not be surprised to see that void filled by other countries in africa.
madam president, the protection of all minorities, whether ethnic, national, religious or linguistic, is fundamental. i do note, however, that there are minorities that are more in the majority than others in the media-political agenda. this hierarchy is unacceptable. there is a lot of talk about the uighurs or the rohingya, and rightly so. but why, then, are the christian minorities, whose members are the most persecuted in the world, systematically ignored? the expulsion of afghan christians by the taliban, the attempted murder of christian refugees by muslims on migrant boats, the purge of serbian christians in kosovo, and the repression of armenians. the list is long, alas! sixteen christians are killed every day. here's the report. meanwhile, the european parliament is preventing a debate on the massacre of a nigerian woman killed a few months ago, while the commission has taken over a year to appoint a special envoy for religious freedom. when we say we want to protect minorities, it is imperative that we remain impartial and not make a deal based on the political interests of the moment.
madam president, please. i am one of the many hungarian fathers. secondly, he is a european citizen and, moreover, a social democratic politician. but in all three of my capacities, i share the same opinion that in the european union - and in modern times too - the question of the nation, or the protection of national minorities, is of particular importance to us. i am proud to speak my beautiful and special hungarian language in this house. this is thanks to the millennial struggle of the hungarian people for survival, and now to our membership in the european community. but what happens in the future depends largely on our respect for national issues. european values often seem abstract, interpreted by each individual according to his or her own taste. one thing is certain, respect and acceptance should be a fundamental issue for each other's culture, religion, sexual orientation, gender. but this list is incomplete without the national affiliation. that is why i must stress that we cannot allow national issues to be trapped in populist nationalism. a patriot is someone who defends the national interest and does not exploit it for political ends.
madam president, this year marks the 30th anniversary of the united nations declaration on the rights of persons belonging to national, ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities. this is an opportunity to reiterate my longstanding commitment to make the voices of all minorities heard, in order to protect and strengthen their most fundamental rights. let us not hide our faces, for the road is still long. today too many minorities are still discriminated against, excluded, subjected to violence and deprived of their rights. i have always been committed to being the voice of the 'voiceless' and minorities around the world (uighurs, tibetans, roma, and any other ethnic minorities), and i will always continue to protect and defend diversity. let us work to end the violations of the rights of all minorities. to this end, i am a strong advocate for the systematic integration of minorities, involving representatives in every dialogue and decision-making at all levels. the full integration of minorities into our societies is the only way to guarantee democratic and societal progress. let us work together to make this declaration a reality, because, even if it is not to the liking of some, we are all equal in rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, well-ordered charity begins with oneself. how can we talk about a human rights anniversary with 6,500 workers dead on the construction sites of qatar and the resulting scandal that shakes our institution? although he did not hesitate to sell his services to a foreign power, one of us stands as a lesson-giver, even though he saw nothing coming for his comrades from the socialist group, now behind bars for corruption. our colleague would like to launch an operation with his hands clean, but what explanation did he give when his ex-wife was arrested with several million dollars in her suitcases? always quick to put the enemy to shame, what did he say to mrs. zurabishvili, the president of the country whose wife was the interior minister, who asked him if, as a husband, he was completely unaware of the excesses of the police, the torture in prisons and the human rights situation there? you said, madam president, that you wanted to shake up parliament. so please ensure that mr glucksmann can no longer chair the ing2 committee.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, in ukraine, vladimir putin is waging a war of cowards. while he was unable to take kiev or kharkiv and had to withdraw from kherson, he is trying to terrorize the population by depriving them of electricity, water and heating. but he knows nothing about ukraine. ukraine, i'm coming back and i'll be going back again. i can testify that the ukrainian people are not discouraged by the russian aggression, but rather angry. the more ukraine is hit, the more it is welded; the more vladimir putin tries to destroy this country, the more he strengthens the determination of his people to resist and push back. nevertheless, it is easy for me to say these words here, in the warmth, in the comfort of a country at peace. we must not just feel sorry for ukraine or admire its people. we must all, each one of us, help him to win the winter before we win the war. even the most pacifist of europeans will not be able to deny ukraine the generators it needs and the help it needs to limit the effects of russian strikes. the most realistic among us know that the most effective thing is still to provide kiev with the defence systems that will repel the strikes. those of us who really want peace, a just and lasting peace, know that it will be achieved through a military victory for ukraine and a defeat for russia. ukraine does not need courage, it has to sell courage. she doesn't need advice. she's the one who fights and endures. she needs friends in the bad times, who can help her heal her wounded country and make sure that she will never be attacked again in the future.
mr president, together with several colleagues, i visited kyiv two weeks ago. horrific numbers we hear about victims, destroyed objects and missiles targeted at civilian targets become truly real once you see it first—hand. russia did not succeed with its military plans, so it is now targeting critical and civilian infrastructure. over 65 000 destroyed objects and 17 000 airstrikes ukraine endured since 24 february. six million people are without electricity. at a certain moment, kyiv did not have electricity, water, heating or internet. the situation two weeks ago was alarming and now with even lower temperatures, it’s becoming critical. ukrainians are fighting bravely and we need to do everything we can to help them win this fight with more humanitarian, financial and military assistance. a significant concrete step would be eur 18 billion in macro—financial assistance. we committed and approved it. now we need to deliver it urgently.
dear chairman, dear commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have entered the tenth month of the illegal russian aggression against friendly and sovereign ukraine. in the meantime, he has been involved in the illegal 'separatist' activities of the so-called 'government of the donetsk people's republic'. their latest tactic is targeting missile attacks on key infrastructure in ukraine, with a particular focus on their energy grid. in addition, schools, hospitals, roads, and other critical infrastructure are also being targeted. in this way, the russian military is trying to undermine industrial production, disrupt logistics lines, affect morale, and deny civilians access to sources of hot water, electricity. in a world facing winter, this kind of action is creating the conditions for an unprecedented humanitarian crisis, which is causing great concern. we are facing difficult times and in these the european parliament must continue to provide unequivocal and uncompromising support to the heroic ukrainian people, as they are fighting not only for their country but for the values we share. ladies and gentlemen, the peace of europe has been shattered. the evil of war, unfortunately, my country croatia knows very well. graveyards, horrors, the destruction of entire cities, violence against women, countless childhoods destroyed. so we have no moral and human doubt. in the spirit of christian solidarity, it is our duty and responsibility to provide them with all possible assistance in these efforts. glory to ukraine.
mr president, the main target of putin’s torture are civilians, the innocent and the most vulnerable. recently, torture chambers for children were found in a kherson region. there have been over 700 attacks on health facilities since the war began, and a russian army has destroyed most of the energy system of ukraine. people have to get by with a maximum of two hours of electricity a day, living in cold houses and temperatures below zero. so what are these solutions? we must organise and lead a major public and private international humanitarian effort to help ukrainian people make it through the winter. we must prevent blackouts, send portable generators. but above all, we must stop the flow of deadly weapons to russia.
mr. chairman, i want to thank you all for being a unified voice in support of ukraine against the great russian might. we are all watching live the planned systematic destruction of infrastructure in order to humiliate the ukrainian people and i am convinced that this is genocide, because they do not even shy away from kidnapping children, re-educating children, forcibly adopting these children into russian families. the european parliament voted yesterday by a large majority to support ukraine with 18 billion euros. it's a lot, but it's still not enough. the ukrainian president appreciates and thanks for this help and at the same time asks and asks for more, including weapons, including humanitarian aid, but also asks us to establish a tribunal for the crimes of russian aggression against ukraine. we are also being asked to do so by nobel prize winner oleksandra matvichukova. justice must be done and those who organize this violence must be condemned. and let me conclude with a personal appeal and request. we have the vice-president of the european parliament. i ask the leadership of this parliament to consider saving money by heating the two great parliaments in strasbourg and brussels. i think that during the winter months, up until may, we could save millions of euros by not having to cross.
mr president, since 10 october, russia has been targeting air and missile attacks on critical infrastructure in ukraine on a nearly weekly basis. these attacks have caused significant damage to ukraine’s power grid and energy stations, resulting in countrywide blackouts, telephone and internet outages, and loss of water supplies. ukrainians are facing those attacks in sub-zero temperatures, with families freezing in their homes. so increased humanitarian aid is needed. and, of course, many of those families are also displaced. such attacks have also severely affected healthcare in ukraine. and as of last week, the world health organization had documented 715 attacks on healthcare facilities since the beginning of this war. doctors and medics are unable to treat patients, again worsening the humanitarian situation. indeed, attacks on transport and energy infrastructure have restricted patients and mobility, and their access to these vital healthcare services. so they need support. we need more humanitarian aid to ukraine, to those brave people of ukraine, who i am sure sometimes cannot be brave all the time in these difficult, horrendous situations that have been caused by russia’s horrendous attack on their country, their critical infrastructure in civilian areas. and that’s evidence that mr putin is unwilling to engage in meaningful diplomacy. we must do everything we can to support ukraine now and into the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have all seen the unbearable images of a terrorist claiming responsibility for the acts of terror committed by his army with a glass of champagne in his hand. vladimir putin is a terrorist, and he pushes the cynicism of isis's communication style to an unprecedented degree. unable to defeat the heroic resistance of the ukrainian people militarily, he decided to destroy the country's civilian infrastructure, terrorize its population and freeze it. in the face of this, we must stop procrastinating. we knew from the beginning that the ukrainians would need high-performance air defense systems. we knew from the beginning that we would end up giving away these defense systems. so let's not waste any more time. the time we waste here is paid for in human lives in the ukraine. our objective must be clear: to defeat the russian terrorist machine and to give ukraine the victory it deserves, which is also the victory of europe. slava ukraini, slava evropi! - what are you doing?
