madam president, mr president of the french republic, we wish you good luck, because the challenges facing the french presidency at this crucial juncture for europe, and indeed for the whole world, are unprecedented, multi-dimensional and important. the migration problem, which concerns the countries of the south and particularly my country, greece, as well as the need to shield and strengthen the external borders of the european union, are key objectives of the french presidency and we will all work together over the next six months to achieve this. and i want to emphasize that today we have also received the rafale to defend and protect the borders of europe. the priorities of the french presidency are therefore identical to the constant demands of the european construction. the challenge for the community is to translate these demands into collective european policies which will stand the test of time and through which europe can claim its rightful place. the changes envisaged by the french presidency are also a clear message to those who seek to destabilise the situation... (the president interrupts)
madam president, the wishes to protect 'consumer rights' do not hide the real aims of the regulation, namely to create more favourable conditions for european technology groups to make profits in conditions of fierce competition with the united states of america, china and other powerful capitalist countries. under the regulation, "providers" can broadcast even the most hateful content, as long as it is not "radical", that is, does not affect the capitalist system, because then they censor, delete content, lower bills. under the guidance of the european union, the city states are also provocatively evading the sub-standard control of the 'providers', handing over to the groups the data, the privacy of each person for commercial use and targeted advertising, in order to shield the profitability subsidized by the 'green digital transition'. it turns out that as long as the groups have ownership, there can be no protection from the collection and processing of data, nor its exploitation for the benefit of the people. the struggle for digital technologies that serve modern people's needs and rights is therefore linked to the struggle to overthrow the exploitative system.
mr president, digital platforms have transformed not only our lives, but also the way we communicate, read the news and consume. but they have also created a number of challenges, such as illegal content online and misinformation. the report on digital services demonstrates first and foremost the european parliament's readiness to help tackle these digital challenges. on the one hand, it updates the e-commerce directive, a text which has made a decisive contribution to the creation of a genuine single market, with all its extraordinary benefits for businesses and for the citizens of the union. on the other hand, it imposes obligations on the very large platforms to act in a timely manner against illegal content, with respect for the fundamental rights of users. it also takes account of the disproportionate burden on smes by exempting them from a number of obligations. i am particularly pleased that, through the persistence of my political group, we have managed to ensure a framework which does not overwhelm them with intolerable bureaucracy. and finally, the report includes a fundamental concept, that of algorithmic transparency. as a society, we need to better understand how social media algorithms work, and platforms should provide researchers with access to data in order to examine potential risks and the socioeconomic harm they may cause. we know that everything will be judged by the proper supervision and implementation of this regulation, but today we are taking another important step towards an institutional framework that will better protect citizens, while promoting innovation and the competitiveness of digital services in europe.
madam president, we are fighting many battles together to defend the principles and values of the european union, european culture and democracy. europe is a greek word and the myth of europe is a symbol of european civilization. democracy was born in greece and the acropolis monument is a worldwide symbol of democracy. i stand before you as a greek and a european citizen with the deepest sense that my speech today is the least of my duties in the long and agonizing battle that my country is waging to reunite the parthenon sculptures. the greek right to life is gaining new momentum in british public opinion, and internationally, following the return of the parthenon fragment from italy. the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the european council, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the commission, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the commission, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the commission, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the council of ministers, the european parliament, the commission and the european parliament, all of course.
the european union's cancer campaigns are a blank slate, as the situation of cancer patients is becoming more and more dire. early diagnosis becomes impossible when an appointment with a doctor for an imaging test is delayed for up to four months or is forced to pay high fees to individuals; when important diagnostic tests, such as the pap test, are not covered by insurance funds and because of under-treatment, major biopsies take months to complete. the necessary treatment is not even provided in specialized hospitals. during the pandemic, cancer surgeries were stopped. chemotherapy is delayed because of the cost. radiation is delayed due to lack of personnel and equipment. the commission's plan is dictated by the european union's strategy for the commercialisation and degradation of public health, which was implemented in our country by the governments of the new democracy, syriza and kinal. to prevent, diagnose and treat cancer patients early, there is a need to step up the fight for the shielding of the public health system, for permanent staffing, for free primary health care with responsibility for prevention, for the remedying of shortages of medicines and equipment by the state, for a public-only and free health system based on modern needs and modern capabilities.
madam president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur of this report, véronique trillet-lenoir, for her difficult work. in this last debate on the european union's cancer strategy, i would like to underline the importance of this resolution, as it covers major issues for all stages of cancer, such as prevention, screening and detection of the disease, without exclusion, equal access to cancer care, providing strong support to cancer patients, survivors and their carers, but also the challenges of cancer in children, adolescents and young adults. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a demand first of all from all the citizens whom we represent in this fight against cancer that we should be united without differences. we can't leave anyone behind.
madam president, i’m reflecting on the common security and defence policy (csdp) report by madame loiseau, and it states – rightly so – that europe is spending nearly eur 400 billion on defence and military equipment. we’re the second-biggest global spender, and this spending is not reflected in our position on the negotiating table at all! the report even calls for extended expenditure of 2% of gdp to all states, which even goes beyond what nato is asking. for what? for a non—efficient and non—effective military capability with duplications and a lack of interoperability. it is even asking for an increase of spending from the european defence fund, and the same question comes here: to what shall that lead if we are not going out with a unified voice and all sticking together for one strategic goal? lastly, the report calls migrants ‘cyberattack weapons’. sorry, migrants are human beings looking for a better life, and they are not a military threat, and not a weapon that we have to defend ourselves against. last but not least: the call for a release of vat on military spending is, i would say, really going too far.
madam president, speaking of common defence policy, there is the 2008 european joint resolution 944 against the export of arms to states for internal repression, regional conflicts and attacks. in the two-year report of operation peace, six cargo ships bound for libya refused to be inspected; all six were turkish. turkey invaded cyprus and was condemned by the un with decisions to be enforced by europe. after varosha, the european parliament called for severe sanctions, but we never saw them. on the other hand, italy and spain accounted for 43% of turkish arms imports over the last decade. the culmination, of course, is the recent spanish-turkish agreement. germany, in 2018 alone, exported 240 million euros worth of weapons to turkey, which is also expecting five italian anti-submarine warfare aircraft, a spanish amphibious assault ship and six german submarines. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how ironic, then, is it to talk about common european defence and to deal with the ukrainian issue when it is proved that many here are complicit in turkish crimes?
madam president, in our resolution we reiterate our deep concern about the foreign policy of the erdogan government. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that it is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have also witnessed a new act of desecration and religious distortion of another historic orthodox church, the monastery of our lady of sumela. i read in the press that after the commercial in the monastery's courtyard, the turkish authorities have now given permission for a hollywood movie to be filmed, this time inside the monastery. so i wonder, mr borrell, what is the red line? the european union is not prepared to accept the turkish government's decision to withdraw from the european union, and we are not prepared to accept the turkish government's decision to withdraw from the european union.
mr president, we are living in 2022. our president is a woman and yet we still do not have full gender equality. we are speaking in this parliament as one of the symbols of democracy. but still, there are countries with authoritarian regimes suppressing their own people – countries such as turkey, which withdrew from the istanbul convention, or others which have revoked measures aiming to combat the virus and address women. it is our duty to fight for women’s rights, especially in regard to their learning situations in third countries, such as the situation in afghanistan. my country, greece, has assumed its responsibilities and provided a safe haven for several afghan women who fled afghanistan. other (inaudible) are also under threat, such as in azerbaijan where the government is systematically destroying monuments and churches of armenian christian heritage. that is the only way that you can live (inaudible) expectation and prevent (inaudible) from being undermined.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, it must be particularly striking that our basic plan and financial programme for recovery and the pandemic, despite being called 'next generation eu', has no strategic position for youth. also, 57% of the recovery mechanism corresponds to the green and digital transition. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. so if we really want a real recovery, we need concrete policies and funding that focus on young people in the long term. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, as a young mep i am particularly pleased that this resolution seeks to respond to important challenges facing young people. unfortunately, however, many of the indicators are not on our side. youth unemployment and social exclusion rates across the european union remain high. i therefore call on the commission and the council to make the fight against them a top priority. we must focus on bridging the gap between education and the labour market, but also give special weight to young people living in remote villages and islands. it is time to move from words to action, making full use of existing programmes but also of new initiatives aimed at developing entrepreneurship and social investment for young people. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european audiovisual industry, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. it's our duty not to turn our backs on them. let us therefore seize the opportunity of the european youth year and design policies for young people with their needs at the centre.
madam president, a few hours ago the court of justice of the european union rejected the appeals of hungary and poland against the mechanism of selectivity. this is a very interesting development. let this decision be an opportunity to make it clear to every woman, every man, to everyone, to all, to all, in poland and hungary, to every european citizen, that the rule of law, the core of democracy, will be protected at all costs, no matter how many battles we have to fight. it must be clear today that the mechanism linking the union budget to respect for the rule of law is not there to punish or blackmail, as the political leaders in warsaw and budapest believe. it exists to protect, where political leaders themselves fail to protect their own citizens; to protect basic human rights, freedoms, justice, the functioning of the judiciary, judges, prosecutors, the functioning of the press, journalists and their media; to make the separation of powers, the rule of law and democracy itself clear. i think it's a very interesting beginning. i hope the message gets through to the capitals.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, we naturally agree with the rapporteur, with mrs sophia von der veld, without the asterisks. the dossier we are discussing today is a dossier which unites the logic because the facts have passed us by, ladies and gentlemen. today we are clearly saying that an oligarchic elite is arming and of course arming and helping the autocratic, undemocratic mr putin to strike women, men, children, civilians in ukraine. that's the truth. but these elites are not just in russia. these oligarchs bear equal responsibility for the crime, you know that very well. the crime against humanity, but also the ongoing crimes against democracy and within their countries. such lists of oligarchs existed and exist outside russia and outside the dramatic events that bring the news to our faces, violently, and of course outside the european union. the european union is a democratic country, and it is not just a democratic country, but a democratic country, and it is not just a democratic country, but a democratic country. i don't need to point out anything else that we'll all agree on here: it is inhuman and out of line to have people being tortured, suffering, dying in the cold or drowning in our seas or coming from war zones or being killed by mines on european borders and on the other hand to open the door to an elite, to oligarchs, supporters of mostly illiberal regimes who simply have the sense to launder black money. we've been through this. we are now coming more determined and we are really waiting for the legislative initiative. this is what all democrats and democrats throughout europe are waiting for.
mr president, in the shadow of war we must dedicate this year's women's day to the women of ukraine. to the women of ukraine who, together with their men, took up arms and went into battle to defend their homeland, their freedom and their dignity, who, united as fists, made homemade molotov cocktails and stepped in front of russian tanks determined to resist. to the women of ukraine, who give birth in bombed-out warehouses, who comfort their children in shelters, who took the path of refuge with their children, leaving behind relatives and friends in fear of their soul being squeezed. to the women of ukraine, who have seen the ugly face of war again and again and have not been moved, like valentina romanova, who saw war in 1941, lost her jewish relatives in bomby yar and now stands up to putin, demanding that he remove his troops. so let us dedicate this year's women's day to the women of ukraine, as a sign of solidarity and respect for the struggle they are waging. it's the least we can do.
madam president, we’re all acutely aware of the pressures our democratic models face from the rise of populism and disinformation, and there’s certainly no shortage of actors on the world stage that stand ready to exploit and probe these pressure points. in this important report, we see the same states mentioned again and again, notably russia, china and turkey. in the case of turkey, we’ve highlighted, first, attempts of the turkish government to influence its diaspora in order to relay ankara’s position and to divide european societies; second, the targeting of journalists, such as erk acarer in berlin; and, third, foreign interference and disinformation campaigns against eu accession countries in the western balkans. turkey is a member of nato and it’s still an eu candidate country, so it should be aligning its foreign policy with the eu’s. yet, in the case of ukraine, although turkey did vote in favour of the united nations general assembly resolution, it’s unwilling to join the eu in imposing sanctions against russia, it keeps its airspace open to russia, and it could potentially become a backdoor to circumvent eu sanctions on trade. we must insist that turkey not only ceases its interference in our democratic processes, but that it takes a clear stance in proactively defending ukraine’s democracy.
mr president, this is what the greek minister for immigration has said: 'real refugees' and 'real refugees', while the others are not. we must beware of this poison! refugees are refugees. pain is pain and if this directive was not activated in 2015 i am from greece and a million people were then in our waters, at our borders, and we asked for solidarity we understand why. because you disagreed and didn't want to support the left government and you pressured us, one with the refugee and one with the memoranda, but now you did the right thing. the directive on temporary protection for ukrainian refugees is being very well implemented and it is clear that the false narrative of a fortress europe has already been shattered by the dramatic events. in the one minute i have, i can only say this: the architecture of the new immigration plan has been overtaken by the events themselves. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today.
mr president, earlier today, the commission issued the repowereu communication. it is a welcome realisation that the invisible hand of the market is incapable of defending either our political or our climate security. the decision to enforce public controls on the retail price of energy is monumental and long overdue. the decision to tax excess profits of fossil fuel companies is only fair to the families that have been bled dry. as we seek to free ourselves from russian gas and geopolitical blackmail, we cannot allow europeans to be taken hostage by speculators and war profiteers. we must also intervene in the broken energy markets, including rotterdam ttf, where the price of fossil gas has almost tripled since the russian invasion. we must stop paying for weapons that kill civilians by buying billions of euros of russian fossil fuels every week. even if we are not willing to close the sky, we should hold our values dearer than gas and embargo russian fossil fuels, as the us and the uk did earlier today. above all, we must dramatically accelerate clean energy and efficiency in a wartime peace mobilisation to deliver good jobs, energy, justice and independence. our best ammunition against both autocracy and climate catastrophe and our best weapon for political and climate security, is the green deal, a peace deal to empower the eu to deliver the just energy transition.
madam president, the imperialist war in ukraine after russia's invasion is raging. the member states of the european union have launched a gigantic arms race, intensifying competition with russia, which will be paid for by the people through the eurobonds, which feed the war industry and the energy groups. the peoples are already bearing the costs of increased competition. they pay for the resilience recovery mechanism, which awards billions to green and digital groups, which boosts the commodification of health in the midst of the pandemic. despite the report's attempt to fabricate them (euro semester, country-specific recommendations, enhanced surveillance), it is the memorandum of understanding that sets out the harsh prerequisites to the detriment of the peoples that the new republic government is rushing to implement in our country together with syriza and kinal. the workers, the greek people need to escalate their struggles by condemning the imperialist war, for the disengagement of greece from nato and the eu, by demanding their rights to collective labour agreements with increases in accordance with modern needs, ensuring labour insurance rights, abolishing special taxes on fuel and energy, against the plans of the european union, the monopolies and their governments.
madam president, mr prime minister, thank you for coming, mr high representative, i believe that europe is becoming stronger through crises, and so, after russia's barbaric and reckless invasion of ukraine, i believe that a new geopolitical europe is being born, a europe in which we should feel that the territories of all the member states are our own and that we can defend them at any cost. a europe that is now a powerful player with a role, a voice and an international intervention in peace. the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a peaceful and deterrent manner, and to defend europe's borders when they are threatened. putin underestimated, as everyone said, the strong resistance of the ukrainians and it is now a fact that he can militarily prevail but has lost the battle. it also underestimated the immediate reaction of europe, which felt its territory under attack and woke up acting with one voice. so he imposed strict sanctions, declaring that the principles, the values of freedom and democracy are not negotiated with the price of natural gas and prosperity, although he knows that he will suffer for it and will fight.
the new ten-year environmental action programme is particularly crucial, madam president, as the new ipcc report shows that time is running out dangerously for man. the more we delay, the more urgent will be the need for more radical measures. it's the immediate systemic change in the economy that will guarantee that all people can live well within planetary boundaries. the inclusion of new indicators beyond gdp is something we are all in agreement with and are eagerly awaiting from the commission, including the green deal targets and the un global targets. the council's rejection of parliament's position on the abolition of fossil fuel subsidies by 2025 is not farsighted. but the commission's commitment to set legally binding targets consistent with the paris agreement is a great success and we expect them to be immediate and ambitious. we congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mrs o'sullivan, and commissioner sinkevičius for this new framework, which opens up a new path for sustainable development in europe and the world.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs yana toom, for today's resolution, which i consider to be of particular importance to the european citizen. we are at a time when questions have been raised about the limitation of individual freedoms due to the pandemic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have an obligation to protect all the rights that flow from citizenship of the european union, such as freedom of movement, freedom of expression, access and exchange of information, and media pluralism, which are crucial elements of the rule of law for every european citizen. we should also encourage the widest possible participation of european citizens through the use of participatory tools, such as referrals, in the democratic process of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're not leaving anyone behind.
madam president, the european union has strong economic relations with mexico. the european union governments have welcomed the supposedly left-wing government which is implementing harsh anti-worker measures and has stepped up the repression of popular demonstrations. during the pandemic, the profits of the monopolies more than doubled, while inflation exceeded 13%, devouring the crushed income of the popular majority. trade unionists, workers, students, other activists, journalists, those who reveal the intensity of exploitation, organize the popular struggle of the workers, are also targeted by pro-state mechanisms, linked to the interests of big business, bourgeois parties, police and military departments, as well as cartels. the eu's image as a defender of rights is unfounded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the virus. they're connected to organized crime, big business interests with capitalist media owners that you serve and that leave journalists exposed and uncovered. the european union is taking the initiative and is supporting the banning of communist party newspapers. let the persecution and repression of the popular movement in mexico stop now! we express our solidarity with the communist party and the struggles of the people. we condemn the murders in the strongest terms. we demand full disclosure of the crimes against activists and journalists.
mr president, we are today supporting, and rightly so, the european commission's proposal to provide more funding to moldova to deal with the economic consequences of the war in ukraine. but putin's war has repercussions not only for ukraine and moldova, but for all the countries of europe and beyond. unfortunately, every day that the hostilities continue, more blood is being shed, more human suffering is being caused, we have more refugees and more consequences for the economy, energy, food security and many other areas, consequences that we will all suffer. the european union must and must do more to deal with these consequences. it must show more unity, more solidarity, but also more funding. ladies and gentlemen, the war in ukraine has caused great problems of all kinds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
madam president, it took the european union a full year to effectively deal with the eurozone crisis in 2009 and four full months to effectively deal with the health and economic consequences of the 2020 covid-19 pandemic. the european union must therefore act now more than ever before to deal effectively with the economic consequences of the war in ukraine. the european union has both the policies and the tools and, after the recovery fund, the experience it needs. we can't wait. we cannot wait for the war to end, we cannot wait for putin's mood, we cannot wait for china's decisions. what we all expect at the moment from europe is that it does what it needs to do to deal with the consequences of the energy crisis and the war; that it does it now, because we have no time to lose. we have a new challenge, a new road race, which we must tackle not with a single step but with a single step. for europe and its citizens.
madam president, the people are moaning about the giant increases in energy, fuel, other goods affected by the imperialist war but launched before. it is the result of the strategy of liberalisation and the energy market, the recovery fund and the green transition, green taxes. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the heavy taxation of the people is being used in the arms race for eurasian needs, for expensive investments in renewable energy and american lng through a new fund and eurobonds. you are intensifying the rivalries that led to war with russia, which turned the ukrainian people into a punching bag of opposing powerful monopoly interests. today, 23 years after the intervention that dissolved yugoslavia, the working people are escalating the struggle against the imperialist war in ukraine, condemning the russian invasion and the euro-atlantic encirclement. to demand the abolition of excise taxes, of vat on consumer goods, to demand collective labour agreements with increases based on modern needs.
madam president, allow me to quote for the record what the latest intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report states as scientific fact. any further delay in concerted, anticipatory global action on adaptation and mitigation will miss a brief and rapidly closing window of opportunity to secure a liveable and sustainable future for all. approximately 3.6 billion people live today in contexts that are highly vulnerable to climate change. current and sustainable development patterns are increasing exposure of ecosystems and people to climate hazards. vulnerability of ecosystems and people to climate change differ substantially among and within regions driven by patterns of intersecting socioeconomic development and sustainable ocean and land use, economic inequity, marginalisation, historical and ongoing patterns of inequity such as colonialism and governments. vulnerability is a political failure and not a physical phenomenon. and government is our job, colleagues. it is our obligation to protect the lives and livelihoods of our citizens from the calamity that we know is coming. it is our duty to keep the window of opportunity open and deliver climate-resilient development fast and furiously.
mr president, larco, a strategically important greek company, the only one in europe producing iron ore from its own deposits in a country which is home to 90% of the european union's registered deposits, is being successively divested by the greek governments. while the use of nickel in electric propulsion is vital and its value has skyrocketed, the new republic government is seeking to clean it up by throwing 1,300 workers and 300 families out on the street. they call it harmful, at the behest of the european union, which has deliberately imposed a fine of 5.5 million and a penalty of 4.5 million per six months, on the grounds that the state did not recover the aid granted. a challenging decision, at a time when the european union is approving billions in state aid to ensure the profitability of groups in the pandemic, which it is "reinvesting" now through the recovery fund. on april 6th, workers in greece strike. they're claiming their modern rights. they are demanding measures to protect the people's income from accuracy. they support the struggle of the workers of larco and their families to ensure the operation of the company, jobs and workers' rights, and to cancel the unacceptable fines.
mr president, greece, like all the others, has unequivocally condemned putin's invasion of ukraine and sent humanitarian aid and defence material. greece has religious ties with ukraine, close ties of friendship, because in mariupol, until before the war, more than 150,000 greeks lived and worked there. mariupol today is completely destroyed. it's a ghost town. the reconstruction of ukraine, the return of the population and the restoration of the effects of the war must be a matter for us to plan for, starting today. the mitsotakis government in greece has committed to restoring the mariupol maternity hospital. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. but it's not enough. today, from this chamber of the european parliament, i call on you as a member of the european parliament from greece - a country that has always been on the right side of history - to give priority to mariupol.
mr president, russia's unacceptable invasion of ukraine and the war - the result of competition with the usa, nato and the european union - have led to the uprooting of millions, mainly women and children. the murder of civilians, whether in ukraine, yugoslavia, afghanistan, iraq, syria or libya, is the most horrifying aspect of imperialist war. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the communist party of greece has stood by the ukrainian refugees in our country. that all necessary measures be taken, under the responsibility of the government, to accommodate them in humane conditions, to provide them with full health care, to provide for the education of refugee children and to meet all their needs. we demand that the reception and accommodation of all refugees from ukraine, including russian-speaking, foreign and migrant workers and students who lived in the country, be ensured, we demand an asylum application and granting procedure based on the geneva convention, we defend their rights to decent living and work. but the discrimination which the european union and governments such as the government of the new democracy in greece make between those persecuted in ukraine and those in afghanistan, iraq, syria and libya is unacceptable. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. they are accompanied by reactionary statements about 'real, christian, christian refugees', while your strategy for the rest of the refugees provides either for repression, repatriation and deportation, or moriah-style hellholes in lesvos, or new superstructures-prisons, even for minors, even for unaccompanied children. all refugees are victims of imperialist wars. solidarity with the uprooted therefore means guaranteeing their rights, but also a struggle of the peoples against the plans to involve their countries in the conflict. it means disengagement from imperialist alliances. it means strengthening the independent struggle for the interests of the working people against the system you serve, which generates and feeds war, refugees and exploitation.
madam president, it is true that the russian invasion of ukraine has spread terror and darkness in europe in recent weeks. this has led to strict measures against russia and, on the other hand, to strong solidarity with ukrainians. this was the right thing to do. but i must admit that we have not seen the same unified response when other human rights atrocities took place in third countries. for months, the situation in afghanistan has been deteriorating. in particular, the profound violations of women’s rights are becoming more frequent. just a few days ago, the ban on girls going to school was reinstated. atefa, a 16—year—old afghan girl, in an effort to express her despair, stated that: ‘for afghan girls, the earth is unbearable, and the sky is unreachable’. depriving education from these girls is like depriving them of their future. the eu is committed to defend human rights around the world, but its efforts will not be strengthened until democracy and human rights are absolutely assured in every state, including afghanistan. afghan women and girls are crying out for immediate help, not words of condemnation. let’s keep little atefa’s words in mind and make the earth bearable for her and the sky reachable to her.
mr president, high representative, in the brussels bubble, as ‘masters of constructive ambiguity’, we characterise china simultaneously as a cooperation partner, an economic competitor and a systemic rival, and finding the balance in this often contradictory mix can be extremely challenging. clearly, china cannot be labelled as a cooperation partner when it imposes sanctions on members of this house. and dealing with china as an economic competitor requires the use of many tools, old and new, to deal with unfair practices with economic coercion, like the trade war against lithuania. in the case of putin’s unconscionable war in ukraine, the eu has taken a very clear stance to support ukraine, to stand up for our principles and values, and to impose very strong sanctions against russia. china, meanwhile, continues to sit on the fence, to put it mildly. so, whilst china decides whether it is to act as a cooperation partner or a systemic rival when it comes to the war in ukraine, the eu has to make its own decisions. dialogue leading to diplomatic solutions is on the top of everybody’s wish list, but the eu must make it crystal clear to china that if it decides to act as a systemic rival towards the eu in the case of ukraine, then secondary sanctions will be imposed on china. anything less than that simply undermines the unity, the credibility and the strength of our union.
madam president, today's debate in the european parliament's plenary on the consequences of the ongoing war in ukraine is particularly important, because all the european leadership is here in the european parliament to listen to us and to shape together our initiatives and policies for the next day, which unfortunately looks bleak at european and global level. it is a fact that the russian invasion of ukraine has awakened europe which, perceiving the danger to its territory, has acted quickly, has acted unitedly, has acted in a coordinated and united manner, imposing severe sanctions against putin, something which, as it seems, he did not expect. he did not expect that we, coordinated and united, would respond to this tragedy and to this challenge that it has posed to us. the joint communiqué of the summit laid the foundations for dealing with the tragic consequences of the war in areas that affect our lives and our survival, such as the increase in energy prices, inflation, generalized punctuality, the food crisis, new refugee flows, for which the aggressor himself, putin himself, is responsible. but from the summit to today, events are running. the european union must be able to take a more active role in the negotiations with russia, and the european union must be able to play a more active role in the negotiations with russia, and the european union must be able to play a more active role in the negotiations with russia. and that is why i would like to stress that we have enthusiastically welcomed the visit of the president of the european parliament, mrs roberta metsola, and i welcome the visit of president von der leyen to kiev at the end of the week, which shows that our union is on the side of peace and on the right side of history. the crisis must therefore be the beginning of a new era for the union and a major concerted effort to lay the foundations for europe's defence, energy and food self-sufficiency. it is our duty to guarantee the well-being and security of the european citizen, who is unable to meet his needs and sees his real income decline. it is our political duty, it is our first political obligation, individual and collective, across all parties, across all borders.
mr president, events like putin's invasion of ukraine do not come like a bolt of lightning in the air. there are always signs ahead, signs that we often don't want to see, even though they are obvious and clear. magnificent ideals and revisionist practices, threats and provocations, disregard for treaties and violation of international law, challenges to national sovereignty, calls for demilitarisation, hybrid threats to neighbours' borders, desecration of monuments. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european parliament has repeatedly pointed out, as have the greek and cypriot members, the extremely worrying signs coming from turkey. for example, last week we had another overflight barrage over the aegean sea in the middle of easter. we have witnessed yet another episode of the desecration of the hagia sophia. ladies and gentlemen, the eyes of the world are on us. they want to see if we've learned our lesson, if, in other words, we're paying attention to the signs. let's not let them down.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, i've been in this business for 30 years, i'm a journalist, and we're going to miss some colleagues today who can't honor world press day. her name daphne, his name george karaivas, to name them by their names, those who lost their lives on the ukrainian front? however, in europe there is a big question - this is the question - who is in charge of whom: do the media moguls control the political power through the press, or does the political power through the owners try to impose policies? since berlusconi's victory in italy, it has been clear that a bell is ringing. that is, financial interests have control of the media, and of course, power. and this is a serious matter of political involvement in our republic. oligopolies and tycoons, from south to north. we see that this phenomenon is becoming a new reality. a new reality, a peculiar regime in the media. and not only that, from the persecution of journalists, from the firing of journalists, we've gone to the murders, to the financial strangulation of the non-systemic media, as the oligarchs, once the legal framework allows them to do so, have the entire news production process in their hands, from the production to the agency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. monopolistic economic interests and power, media and political power, political power and justice. what i am describing to you, tell me which country comes to mind; hungary, poland, greece, italy? i think it is now a new regime in europe and we must take it very seriously. let me give you something more specific: murder of journalists. our guy's name is giorgio caravaggio. surveillance by the national intelligence service, which is under the jurisdiction of the prime minister. our reporter's name is cuckoo. major persecutions of journalists. her name is gianna papadako. his name is costas vasevani. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to close, to protect the people of the press, to free press, to democracy, to colleagues who have disappeared, who have been murdered, to tenden who raised us. one slogan can be heard: legislate now and free tenden! teden wouldn't be able to get a job anywhere under the current circumstances.
madam president, the 'conference' is an attempt to manipulate the legitimate indignation of the workers, of the young people in all the member states, but also to wash away the anti-people european union of monopolies, imperialist interventions and wars, the age-old enemy of workers' interests. whether or not it marks a change in the euro-treaties, it cannot hide the great contradictions within the union. its proposals seek to shield the anti-people european union structure; they reward the so-called euro-parties; they set unacceptable electoral limits, altering the electoral results; they institute postal, online electoral procedures; they escalate the fraud of 9 may, turning the day of the great anti-fascist victory of the peoples, in addition to the so-called day of the european union, into a single day of holding european elections. the european union is not improving, it can only become more unpopular. the future of the peoples is therefore not to be built by means of pseudo-conferences on the mined ground of serving capitalist profits, but by strengthening the struggle in each country against the european union for liberation from imperialist associations, with power and the economy in the hands of the peoples, for the cooperation of the peoples, for the construction of mutually beneficial relations.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, tourism represents over 10% of european gdp and supports millions of jobs in all member states. businesses and workers still struggling to survive after two years of a devastating pandemic are now threatened by the impact of the war in ukraine and the acute energy crisis. operating costs have soared, as have transport costs, while inflation is wiping out europeans' disposable income and shrinking their travel budgets. there is no more time for discussion and consultation. the tourist industry needs support now to prevent thousands more jobs from being lost. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first, creating an action plan to support the tourism sector from the effects of the pandemic and the war with sufficient resources; creating a european crisis management mechanism in tourism; supporting the liquidity of smes with sufficient resources from european financial instruments; tax relief for the tourism sector to be able to respond to rising energy and food costs, and in particular for smes struggling to survive after two years of a pandemic; and finally, transfers of the provisional financial obligations of enterprises to the state.
mr president, today's debate is part of a new phase of intensifying inter-imperialist competition. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union, and in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. the conflict in ukraine is escalating alarmingly. senior united states military officials are highlighting the possibility of a major-power engagement, while the russian defense minister is targeting shipments of war material. at the same time, the greek government, with the support of the bourgeois parties, has turned the country into a nato stronghold. it makes the agreement on the expansion of american bases urgent, leading to deeper involvement in american plans against russia and china, with the loss of resources, markets and geopolitical benefits that the ukrainian and russian people are now paying with blood. in this conflict of bandits, the peoples have only one way: to strengthen the struggle against the country's participation in the imperialist war, for disengagement from imperialist organizations such as nato and the european union, and from their plans, which put the peoples in the target and magnify the poverty, precision and insecurity faced by the peoples in all countries.
rapporteur. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, let me start from a geopolitical point of view. there is no doubt that north macedonia demonstrated the best democratic transition record across the western balkan region, in full alignment with the eu’s foreign policy, in the face of russian aggression against ukraine. i would like to use this opportunity to congratulate the government of north macedonia for being such a committed nato member by taking swift and brave decisions against putin’s war. on the reform agenda, north macedonia has delivered sustained results. the report recognises the continuous effort to strengthen the rule of law, judicial independence and minority rights, counter corruption, and transparency and political dialogue between government and opposition parties. we’ve been reiterating to both parties, be it in opposition or the government, that when it comes to the european path of the country, it shouldn’t be a big challenge to come together and build national consensus. it contains a comprehensive overview of pending reforms that the country should adopt on issues like electoral reform, media improvement, accountability and public institutions, and engagement with civil society. but i am convinced that the government has good heritage and all the potential to move the country’s eu integration path forward. having said that, and considering the broader geostrategic context, we are all aware that the postponement of the official start of the accession negotiations is a lose—lose situation – both for north macedonia and for us, for the eu. as the standing rapporteur, i will continue to call for the long—overdue accession negotiations to officially start, and i’m glad to, and really grateful to see the effort for a positive and sustainable engagement between the governments of bulgaria and north macedonia. these are historic times and they require firm and timely decisions. it is time for leadership. it is not time to follow one or other political opinion. it’s time to lead. more than ever today we have to send a strong european message – not to the political elite of north macedonia or to our member countries, but to the citizens of north macedonia, because they deserve it. времето не е на ничия страна. времето ни кара да вземем важни решения, които трябва да предопределят бъдещето на региона и бъдещето на европейския съюз. от създалата се ситуация губят всички, губи българия, губи република северна македония, губи европейският съюз. най-вече обаче губят добросъседските отношения и приятелството, и затова насърчавам двете страни да намерят взаимно приемливо решение. започването на първата междуправителствена конференция не е отстъпление от една или друга национална позиция, не е отстъпление от начертаните червени линии, а е даване на възможност за европейска перспектива на страната северна македония. трябва да го направим това не за някой друг, а за гражданите и най-вече за следващото поколение. трябва да потърсим европейско решение, което да гарантира правата и свободите на всеки гражданин, живеещ на територията на северна македония. заедно с това обаче, да запазим и достойнството, и перспективата пред страната. какво ще бъде успех, питал съм се много пъти. няма да бъде успех, ако се провалим за пореден път. успех ще бъде, ако успеем. нека да си пожелаем да успеем. аз искам, вярвам, че и много хора в тази зала го искат искрено.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am before you tonight on behalf of my colleague, commissioner várhelyi who couldn’t attend. first, let me thank the rapporteur, ilhan kyuchyuk, for the report on north macedonia. the western balkans have been a priority of this commission since the beginning, and today they are more than ever a geostrategic priority for us. it is in our common interest to speed up the enlargement process. the eu member states took an enormously historic decision in march 2020 when they decided to open accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania. now we need to deliver on our promise and officially launch this process with both countries as soon as possible, and before the end of the french presidency. to speed up the accession process, the commission has also upgraded its own toolset. we revised our enlargement methodology, putting an even stronger focus on fundamentals such as the rule of law and democracy. it is important that the eu use the full potential of its instruments, capacities and power. north macedonia has demonstrated its commitment to european union values and determination to advance on its eu path. the country has condemned russia’s military aggression and expressed its firm support to ukraine and its people. the country is also fully aligned with all the european union’s declarations, statements and restrictive measures on russia. at the same time, the country continues to show its determination to advance on eu reforms. as you have rightly pointed out in your report, north macedonia has maintained a steady pace of progress in the implementation of reforms, in particular in key areas such as the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime. more than ever, the work of parliament is key as a forum for political dialogue. it is important that all parties act constructively in this regard. i would like to thank the european parliament for strengthening democratic processes in north macedonia, including through the jean monnet dialogue. during this current situation, the eu and north macedonia are facing common challenges – increase of energy prices, inflation and concerns about the uncertainty of the future. we remain committed to help north macedonia in every way we can, including through our financial assistance. the implementation of the instrument of pre—accession assistance and of our economic and investment plan will strengthen connectivity and contribute to greener and more digital economies, which will reduce dependencies. to make our investments a success we need the region to push ahead on building a common regional market. let me underline also the importance of good neighbourly relations. pending bilateral issues between bulgaria and north macedonia need to be resolved as a matter of priority. the commission is involved in helping both sides in this process. it is of utmost importance that efforts continue to find a mutually acceptable solution to pending bilateral issues. to conclude, it is important that north macedonia continue to deliver on reforms and that the eu deliver in return. the official launch of accession negotiations through the first intergovernmental conference will be the strongest possible signal the eu could send to the country, to the region and beyond. thank you, of course, for your report. thank you for your attention. i am looking forward to our discussions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in preparation for today, i have been reading through last year's speeches. if you read and look at the report, you will probably find that many of the speeches and analyses of the report today are similar. this is bad news. this is bad news because in many areas north macedonia has sought and implemented profound reforms. i'm not talking about simple bills, i'm talking about changing the constitution, even the name of the country. but, yes, the accession negotiations have not yet started, and that is clear. i have visited skopje three times now and there you can feel the loss of credibility when you talk to the people and not just the official representatives of the country. the european union and europe as a whole will lose credibility in the western balkans if we do not send strong signals. it is this loss of credibility that is causing others to take advantage of this vacuum in politics: russia, china others will come and make offers, and then it is in our hands overall, of course, also as an effect of the covid pandemic to act quickly now. the impressive signal of unity after putin's attack on ukraine must also be reflected in a concerted approach to the western balkans. we need these states. we need these states on our side, we need them within the european union. i would also like to make one thing quite clear: i also understand the concerns and worries of my bulgarian colleagues. i would also like to appeal to both sides, to skopje and sofia, to find new ways as quickly as possible, to show alternatives, to get out of here and not continue with the status quo. i know these are difficult and painful decisions. but i can only emphasize once again that our credibility is on the line. let us make the western balkans a good example of how european integration can succeed!
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, congratulations to the rapporteur, mr kyuchyuk, but it’s another report on north macedonia where we, unfortunately, cannot welcome an intergovernmental conference and the start of the accession negotiations with the european union. north macedonia did everything it was requested to do, and yet we still do not know the date the country deserves. they underwent substantial reforms, including to strengthening its democracy and fighting against corruption, and even changing their name. and contrary to some others, north macedonia has fully aligned with the european union sanctions against russia. there must be no excuses for further delay if we want to preserve our credibility. it is also necessary to keep the pro—european aspiration in north macedonia and the whole western balkans region. given the changed geopolitical context of the russian aggression on ukraine, strengthening the enlargement policy is more important than ever. in june, a positive decision on starting the accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania is a must.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to personally congratulate the rapporteur on the enormous work he has done and tried to do. this file is extremely difficult for him personally and politically. and i understand him for the effort he's put in, so i congratulate him. ladies and gentlemen, you want macedonia to start negotiations with the european union. - that's great. that could be tomorrow, fellas, tomorrow. to do that, it is necessary just tonight to change the constitution, to ban the language of hate, to stop the humiliation of bulgarian history and to solve all these issues. but you don't want skopje to do it, and you're pressuring bulgaria. ladies and gentlemen, are you prepared to enter into these negotiations with a dubious outcome? because let's not kid ourselves, you know, of course, the government in skopje is very compromising and very pro-russian in its actions. are you ready to lose seven or eight million bulgarians? because what is happening right now, the pressure, the unfair pressure on bulgarian society and memory is pushing bulgarians away, disappointing them and making them very eurosceptic. in practice, this pressure on bulgaria is working for putin and the russian column in bulgaria and the european union. is that what you're trying to do? i'm sure you know that. what is happening will be a disaster and a disgrace that will be written all over the european commission. i hope you're listening, commissioner, these are important matters. i hope you're not digging into the phone. you're obviously digging into your phone, but that's another story. but colleagues, what i am saying to you is this: there must be polite political pressure on skopje to fulfil the agreement. nobody wants anything else. that's it.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, we have in the european continent a barbaric invasion nowadays, because of nationalism and history, and the question with north macedonia is what happens if we leave it again to nationalism and history to prevent the future, to destroy the future. north macedonia and the government have done everything we have asked, but still the case is not going on. we have to fight the nationalism and the history that prevents that, coming this time from bulgaria. also, we have to prevent the nationalism and the history that is coming also from the greek government, because after the historic agreement of prespa, there are three memorandums to be implemented between greece and north macedonia to finalise the agreement. and you know what’s happening, mr commissioner? the greek government is not implementing the memorandum, and is not bringing the memorandum to the parliament to be voted. you know why? because they are afraid of nationalism and history. so are you going to do something on that as the commission? are you going to ask mr mitsotakis to bring the memorandum, as the agreement of prespa stipulates, or do we leave again history and nationalism to prevent the future?
mr president, dear commissioner, despite undiminished popular support for european integration, trust in the eu as the most important partner and ally for north macedonia has dropped by 30% in the last two years. this tells us a lot about our relationship with this country which, since it embraced the european perspective in 2004, has undergone significant reforms and international efforts – even changing its official name. now it is time to give concreteness to macedonia’s eu aspirations, or it will be too late. june may represent the point of no return. supporting the accession negotiation means strengthening the eu’s role and credibility in the whole western balkans region. it means strengthening reformers throughout the region and contrasting and weakening those anti—european forces that depict us as unreliable, and the european future of the western balkans as an illusion. the commission report on north macedonia stresses once again how the country has met all the conditions to start negotiations. this parliament strongly agrees. our high representative agrees and – as he referred – the foreign affairs council agrees. we owe it to this country. we owe it to the leaders who reach out to neighbours and minorities at home in the true spirit of reconciliation. we owe it to the north macedonian people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after putin's aggression in ukraine, it is now more than ever that the integration of all the countries of the western balkans into the european union must be supported. macedonia has made the difficult journey from a dependent entity in the former yugoslavia to an independent european state. bulgaria has supported macedonia for the last 30 years in every respect on its path to europe. our european family must be united, strong and capable of acting in the face of the threats and challenges around us. it would be in the kremlin's interest to have misunderstanding, hatred and discrimination in our european union. therefore, all those issues that lead to such negative processes must be cleared before the negotiations begin or at least there must be a guarantee that they will be resolved during the negotiation process. integration is a two-way street that requires efforts from both sides. however, the candidate country should be able to overcome the inertia and dependencies of the former yugoslav ideology that led to the division and sowing of hatred between two countries with a common history such as bulgaria and macedonia. the treaty with bulgaria must be respected, especially in its part on historical reconciliation based on common history. the work of the academic commission is based on original documents, as well as non-discrimination of citizens who openly declare their bulgarian identity and origin. measures to overcome hate speech, such as changes to curricula and memorials, must also be taken. guarantees of progress can be the negotiating framework, where we can take into account what has been done on these issues, without worrying about whether another government will come to macedonia, the opposition now, which is or is not. i call on the political class of macedonia to show courage, courage and leadership to start negotiations. (the president agreed to reply to the statement 'blue card')
the wording of the 'blue card' is as follows: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleague. the copenhagen criteria are the basis of the so-called 'european values'. the most important of these, for me at least, is that a candidate country respects and protects all human rights of all its citizens on its territory. you, as well as your colleagues in parliament and the commission, have repeatedly received information that people who feel themselves to be bulgarian, but are macedonian citizens, are being repressed by their government in skopje. don't you think that's the key question that needs to be resolved? and it's not a two-way relationship. this is a human rights issue, this is european values. don't you think it should be resolved?
reply to the statement 'blue card'. dear mr. jambazky, that is exactly right. i share what you're saying. we're not talking about an academic dispute between two countries. we're talking about basic human rights, discrimination, hate speech, being dangerous to say your self-determination. just as we respect the self-definition of every living person who identifies himself as ethnic macedonian, so the self-definition of everyone who wants to identify himself as bulgarian should be respected. that this has no negative consequences in his service, no career development, that his children cannot be threatened in school or receive insults from the surrounding negative environment, imbued, unfortunately, with hatred and inertia from the yugoslav past.
mr president, first of all we are completely against the use of the name of our macedonia by skopje. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the fact that skopjeans call themselves macedonians is the definition of historical distortion, a distortion that offends all greek citizens on a daily basis and especially the greeks of our macedonia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the newly elected president of the republic of macedonia is able to exercise his right to vote in the european parliament. and because this report is essentially calling for skopje to join the european union, we say that skopje is not going to join the european union unless it is renamed skopje or vardarska or whatever else does not offend our history. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. it seeks a temporary compromise in the context of heightened competition between bourgeois classes and monopolies affected by more favourable treatment by some states. it is designed to strengthen the position of european monopolies vis-à-vis, in particular, the united states of america and china. in greece, where employees are taxed at 23% on income, the 15% tax rate for groups is a challenge. it concerns a few groups and excludes the shipping capital which is voluntarily taxed by decisions of the greek governments over time, while it breaks the record of profitability one after the other. the propaganda of fair taxation is a political fraud of the european union, governments and bourgeois parties. in the unjust tax system of the capitalist economy, the people pay 95% and the groups 5%. the workers must therefore organise their struggle, demanding a 45% tax on profits for big capital, the abolition of all tax exemptions, including for ship owners, unfair indirect taxes and the securing of a tax-free threshold to cover the needs of the working class family.
madam president, since putin's invasion of ukraine, there have been major changes in the international diplomatic and geostrategic landscape. new relationships, new challenges, in short: we are in a new world. and we need a new transatlantic strategic partnership. the visit of greek prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis to the united states, as well as his historic speech to the american congress, have, i believe, best illustrated the new requirements and the new prospects for enhanced transatlantic cooperation, showing the way forward for the whole of europe. the further development and strengthening of our transatlantic relations is a key strategic choice today. ladies and gentlemen, it is our common duty and our historical responsibility towards future generations to fight so that the republic, which was born in greece and is the link between europe and the united states, can prevail against the forces of authoritarianism, revisionism and backwardness.
so mr simon, your request was to postpone the debate and the resolution, and this plenary has just voted against that request. are you now putting forward a new request? this is exceptional and not usually done. i apologise, but the rules say that such requests have to come in one hour before the start of the session. so i am sorry, it cannot be accepted. but i would ask you, dear colleagues, that this could be very much negotiated and discussed before, so that we really move as an institution in the future on europe. so the agenda is adopted, the order of business is thus established.
the first item is the ceremony on the 60th anniversary of the common agricultural policy. this is an important point, dear colleagues. today we have with us minister fesneau and commissioner wojciechowski. a few words from my side before we watch a short video. today we mark the 60th anniversary of our common agricultural policy, a monumental policy for our union. this is a policy that has enabled us to increase productivity, ensure the availability of reasonably priced food and provide fair living standards to farmers. colleagues, our common agricultural policy has transformed europe. our farmers not only provide us with the food security we need: they also export around eur 180 billion-worth of agri-products to third countries. europe’s quality products have helped feed the world. but we must also consider the challenges that lie ahead. only 11% of farm managers in the eu are under the age of 40. our agri-sector is in desperate need of an influx of skilled young farmers that can boost innovation. we need to approach farming with a fresh perspective. we also need to pay closer attention to the quality of our products and the sustainability of production processes. this is why we need to speed up and gear up our efforts to make farming as environmentally friendly as possible. the reform of the common agricultural policy, together with the farm to fork strategy, are tailor-made for this purpose. another challenge is the rising costs of production that will soon lead to higher food prices. fertiliser prices rose by 30% since the beginning of 2022. increases in fuel costs are reaching record levels. inflationary pressure is having an enormous effect on the day-to-day management of our 10 million farms in the european union. and here i must emphasise the immense disruption of trade in grain and cereals as a consequence of russia’s invasion of ukraine. blockades of ports and an inability to find alternative ways to transport agricultural products into and out of ukraine have led to higher prices and a sense of instability. the pressure that it has caused on global food supply chains is extremely worrying. if ukraine is not allowed to toil its fields, we are looking at a global, multi-year lack of food supplies. all these challenges need a decisive and firm reaction from us. agriculture is a strategic sector of our economy. on this milestone anniversary, let me end by paying tribute to all the people behind the success of our common agricultural policy: the farmers, their families and all other ancillary workers that put a huge effort in the fields, come rain or shine. they are the true narrators of this success story. (a video was shown in the chamber)
president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased and honoured to be able to speak to you this evening to celebrate the 60th anniversary of one of the first - because it is one of the oldest and most important - policies of the european union. the common agricultural policy cap came into being 60 years ago. a few countries had made a commitment to build a common peace project after decades of conflict. the cap's objectives were to support the modernisation of our agriculture, increase its productivity, ensure farm incomes, stabilise markets, guarantee security of supply and ensure the widest possible access to food. these objectives are still at the heart of the cap today - as the news reminds us - but other issues have now been added to the policy. today, the foundations laid 60 years ago are confirmed as being relevant, both in the face of the immediate consequences of the crises we are experiencing, but also in accelerating transitions and responding to the challenges of the future. it is the sense of history that has led us, over the last 60 years, to evolve the cap to take account of new challenges, notably in the field of land use, the conservation of natural resources, the fight against and adaptation to climate change, animal welfare and nutrition. the cap has also adapted, as enlargements have taken place, to accommodate the diversity of productions and farms throughout the european union, from the tropical climate of our outermost regions to a near-polar climate above the 62nd parallel, and even the mediterranean climate. with the creation of the wto in 1995, it also opened up to the world, with growing international trade. over the years, the european parliament has also become more closely involved in the cap, leading to the introduction of codecision on this policy in the treaty of lisbon, which has given it increased legitimacy. the reciprocity of standards, a priority of the current presidency, further reinforces the principles i have just set out. all this shows that the cap has been a permanent structure for 60 years, whose strength and agility have been revealed and reinforced by crises and major changes in the workplace, and it is a reminder that food sovereignty remains a strategic priority. this is true when we witness the tragic return of war in europe, because we all remember that the project of the builders of europe was to conceive of agriculture as a vehicle for peace. we therefore strongly condemn the blackmailing of food security and the use of food as a weapon in the war in ukraine. this is also true because building food sovereignty in europe also means building the conditions for lasting peace. the idea of europe's being able to provide for its people by choosing to produce enough on its own soil rather than being dependent on imports was at the heart of the founding fathers' plan. it was to ensure food security for european citizens at affordable prices and to enable farmers to generate sufficient income that the first common market organisations were decided upon, modernised agriculture and increased productivity, as well as production. this is also true of the transitions, which must be accompanied and accelerated - i am thinking in particular of the ecological transition, through the green deal. this agroecological transition is at the heart of the challenge of food sovereignty, because, no, our agriculture will not be able to produce in sufficient quantity and quality without an adaptation of the corresponding systems aimed at preserving the means of production such as soils, biodiversity and natural resources such as water. food sovereignty will be resilient or it won't be. i believe that the two cannot be separated. this is also the role of the cap: to accompany these changes and to be at the farmers' side to make them happen. the cap cannot do this alone, and, once again, it must not miss this meeting. ladies and gentlemen, the covid-19 crisis, the war in ukraine, global warming, all demonstrate that our food sovereignty is never fully achieved. it is imperative that we build resilience in our food systems, in our farms, and reduce vulnerabilities in our value chains. the cap will therefore be absolutely necessary to ensure our capacity to produce and feed our population, just as we europeans have a special responsibility to contribute to global food security. governments, like the european parliament, have not been wrong: the cap budget remains an essential component of the budget of the european union; it reflects the strategic interest of agriculture and food and is an expression of european solidarity and ambition for the agricultural and rural world. after 60 years, the cap is more than ever a policy that is true to the spirit of its founders, while being resolutely modern, both adapted to its time and preparing for the future. we have a responsibility to preserve, together with our farmers, this acquis, a powerful symbol of the european union's unity and of the deep commitment to the project, so timely, which it has borne since its creation.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear minister, honourable members. six years ago, the six founding countries of the european communities concluded an agreement on the first common agricultural policy for europe. with the memories of a devastating war and famine still fresh in their minds, they introduced an agricultural policy with common rules to support farming and ensure food supply. the common agricultural policy has constantly evolved over the years to meet changing budgetary and economic circumstances, and to match the evolving needs of citizens. however, the original aims of the policy already established under the treaty of rome have reminded unchanged – increasing productivity, stabilising markets, providing fair living standards to farmers, assuring the availability of food, and ensuring that this food reaches consumers at reasonable prices. all of these treaty objectives serve one overriding purpose – europe’s food security. the importance of our food security has been reinforced during the time of the pandemic, and now even more so in the time of this cruel war triggered in europe by the russian aggression against ukraine. in particular, this times have shown us that food security is of strategic importance, equal to defence security and energy security. this was reinforced in the most recent european council conclusions. we owe our food security first and foremost to our farmers, those who cultivate the land and keep the animals. we thank them for their efforts. we also thank workers along the entire food system, such as those in the processing and distribution systems. today, it is hard to imagine what european agriculture would be like without the common agricultural policy. i come from poland, a part of the european union which for years remained behind the iron curtain. at a time when the common agricultural policy was beginning to operate, when farmers in western europe were receiving direct payments and other forms of support, farmers in eastern europe were facing a much different reality. they were forced to work on ‘kolkhozes’, or ‘collective farms’. in the case of poland, farmers were forced to hand over part of their harvest free of charge to the communist authorities, as part of so-called compulsory supplies. this historical experience is still causing visible differences today, in the development of agriculture and rural areas in different parts of europe. we should reduce these differences as quickly as possible. in a wider sense, for the cap to continue making an effective contribution to food security, we must adapt it to current and future challenges. we must take care to produce the right food today, but also to preserve the potential of our land for tomorrow, for future generations of europeans. fundamentally, we must remember that agriculture is not an industry, land is not a factory, animals are not machines. that is why we are reforming the common agricultural policy, so that agriculture becomes more friendly for the environment, climate, and animal welfare. however, we must do more to ensure the stability of farmers’ incomes. we must do more to support them in crisis situations, which, unfortunately, are starting to become more frequent. we must ensure that living conditions in rural areas are improved, and close the gap between rural and urban conditions. that is the aim of our long-term vision for rural areas, adopted in 2021 and targeting significant changes by 2040. the history of the common agricultural policy fully demonstrates its relevance and success, and today’s challenges fully demonstrate the need to continue and develop this policy, for the next generation of europeans.
chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am pleased to be here with you today to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the common european agricultural policy. today we celebrate the farmers who daily farm their fields, care for their animals, process products and strive for even more sustainability, high quality and new innovations. we salute the hardworking europeans who have kept our food shelves full during the crises of recent years and who have also prepared for the challenges ahead. i want to use this day to say thank you. we all join in thanking our farmers who have earned praise and recognition. and i wish that applause was yours. (applause from the centre) when the cap was launched 60 years ago, the signs of war, suffering and destruction were still clearly visible throughout europe. hunger was all too familiar to many people. we have grown up with the awareness that we have long since left those times behind us, but russia's war in ukraine shows us that our european values, our freedom, are anything but self-evident. of course, we cannot compare the situation today with that of 60 years ago. when the cap was set up, its objectives were clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. those goals have remained. they were and are the heart of the common agricultural policy. but new challenges have also arisen, such as tackling climate change or biodiversity loss. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the danger of a supply crisis is on our doorstep in europe - and i am not just talking about ukraine, but of course also about our neighbour in north africa - is growing. putin is blackmailing the world by trying to keep wheat from them. we have a responsibility to act quickly to ensure food security, sustainability and affordability in the future. sixty years is a retirement age in some parts of europe, not so long ago. and today too, we hear voices repeatedly saying that this is exactly what we want for the common agricultural policy. but even if the cap sometimes seems like a massive, perhaps even cumbersome tanker, it has proved its worth in times of crisis. the importance of the cap has been demonstrated by our ability to provide rapid and targeted aid. once again, commissioner, with the commission's response to the russian attack in ukraine and the threat to security of supply, we were able to take swift action to increase production in 2022. we need to do the same now for 2023, so that we can make what we promised to do to help our neighbours a reality. that must be our aim in the coming weeks, to create the conditions for ensuring a good harvest in europe in 2023 and to contribute to our security of supply and also to our neighbourhood. ladies and gentlemen, you may have noticed: some of my colleagues have worn more traditional clothing today, not just to present themselves, so to speak, but to express their region and to make the motto of unity in diversity visible here in the house today. i would ask those who have taken the trouble to wear traditional clothing from their region to stand up and express the importance of this diversity - unity in diversity - and thus also the different agricultural structures in europe.
thank you so much, mr lins. the item is now closed.
the next item is the debate on the report by nacho sánchez amor, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the 2021 commission report on turkey (2021/2250(ini)) (a9-0149/2022). i remind you that free seating is applied, with the exception of the first two rows that are allocated to group leaders. you will be able to request catch-the-eye and blue cards via your voting machine after having inserted your voting card, therefore i invite you to always bring your voting card with you. instructions have been made available in the hemicycle. should you wish to register for the catch-the-eye i invite you to do so starting from now, without waiting for the end of the debate. moreover, i remind you that blue cards can also be raised for a short intervention and will allow a follow-up question. i would also like to remind you that interventions in the chamber will continue to be made from the central rostrum, except for catch-the-eye, blue cards and points of order. i therefore kindly invite you to keep an eye on the speakers’ list and to approach the rostrum when your speaking time is imminent.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable rapporteur, dear members of the european parliament, let me first thank the rapporteur, mr sánchez amor, for his work and the report presented to this house. today’s debate allows us to take stock of turkey-eu bilateral relations. many of the concerns expressed by the european parliament concur with our own findings and the position taken by the european council. it confirms a worrying trend: turkey has continued to move away from the eu. this is why accession negotiations with turkey remain at a standstill. as you know, the rule of law and fundamental rights in turkey remain a key concern. the targeting of political parties, human rights defenders and media represents major setbacks for human rights and runs counter to turkey’s obligations to respect democracy, the rule of law and women’s rights. dialogue on such issues remains an integral part of the eu turkey relationship. the commission remains worried about the overall situation of the judiciary, the rule of law and the respect for fundamental rights in turkey. turkey’s refusal to implement the rulings of the european court of human rights is particularly troubling. i know that this house has condemned the osman kavala case. the commission will also keep consistently bringing up the case of mr kavala with the turkish interlocutors at all levels. we will equally keep supporting civil society, human rights and democracy. we will continue to channel our substantial assistance via civil society organisations in line with the long-standing request of the european parliament. more specifically, under ipa iii, we have around eur 67 million for 2021 to 2023 and around eur 12 million under the ndici-global europe programme on human rights and democracy for the period between 2021 and 2024. turkey remains a key partner for the eu in areas of common interest. it is positive that tensions with turkey have decreased over the past months as turkey’s provocative actions in the east mediterranean receded in 2021. in this context, the commission has started implementing the positive agenda put forward by the eu leaders, and this allowed us to step up high-level dialogue in areas which are clear priority for the eu. we need to address topics of common challenges such as the green transition, energy and post-covid recovery. we have recently launched a new instrument, the turkey investment platform, that opens the door to the european fund for sustainable development+ to turkey, similarly to all other epa iii and ndici countries. it will leverage funding to turkish businesses and private sector to address the challenges of the twin digital green transition and provide access to finance for smes, including in the fields of connectivity, decarbonisation, energy, public transport, urban development or human capital. this will ensure that we can provide eu guarantees to investments made in turkey and supported by our partner finance institutions. further, we continue our programming discussions on the eur 3 billion in additional refugee assistance with the turkish side. following the mandate of the european council of june last year, we focus on the continuation of key projects sited under the facility for refugees in turkey. you will recall that last year we agreed on the continuation of key support in the areas of education, basic needs and border management, and our current discussions build on this. now we are discussing additional basic needs support, protection, socioeconomic support with a view to ensure uninterrupted support to close to 2 million people. an additional element we will work on is support to secure turkey’s eastern border, to prevent irregular migration in line with our key policy principles. as all the additional funding would be channelled through the eu budget, we are committed to ensure the same level of transparency as for other projects and programmes. in addition, we will continue to invite representatives of this house to the steering committee of the facility for refugees. the biggest challenge with turkey remains the lack of prospect for a solution to the cyprus issue. we need turkey to stop its provocative actions in varosha and exert its influence so that the northern cypriot community engages in the un-led settlement negotiations. i would like to thank the european parliament for having granted additional funds to the eu aid programme for the turkish cypriot community this year and in previous years. this year’s eur 1 million will be allocated to confidence-building measures between the two communities in cyprus in the form of supporting the work of bicommunal committees on cultural heritage and on missing persons. finally, regarding the war in ukraine, turkey’s ongoing active diplomacy and solidarity with ukraine is essential, including the efforts to achieve a cease-fire. we welcome turkey playing a constructive role for the de-escalation of the conflict by also recognising the impact of the war on trade, tourism and the economy at large. at the same time, we continue to encourage turkey to take an even more decisive stance on aligning more with the eu positions. we expect extra vigilance from turkey when it comes to the prevention of the circumvention of sanctions. thank you very much for your attention and i am looking forward to this debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i will speak in my native tongue. it’s easier for me when the subject is a very important one. doamna președintă, trăim într-o lume extrem de bizară. trăim într-o lume cu provocări enorme. trăim într-o lume în care europa se confruntă, după atâtea zeci de ani, cu un adevărat război. iar guvernul de la ankara știe să joace o carte politică și diplomatică, bazând-se în mod esențial pe argumentele sale militare, pe argumentele sale economice, dar mai ales pe argumentele sale diplomatice. toate acestea însă, calitatea de aliat al republicii turcia, cu cele mai multe dintre țările noastre în calitate de membru al nato, nu exonerează guvernul de la ankara de responsabilitatea încălcării atât de flagrante, repetate și agresive a drepturilor omului și a tuturor principiilor statului de drept. iar ceea ce în ultima vreme guvernul de la ankara face în raport cu republica cipru și în raport cu grecia, astăzi, zilele acestea, depășește cu totul imaginația cuiva care spera să trăiască într-o lume a păcii.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, as has been said, as my colleague mr nacho has said, the human rights situation in turkey is catastrophic. according to the reports that we have, more than 87 journalists are in prison for terrorism, simply for doing their jobs. more than a thousand people have been arrested for posting content that was defamatory, insulting or terrorist propaganda. life without the possibility of appeal for mr. osman kavala. students arrested for protesting for lgbt rights or femicide, which is very common in turkey today. the banning of parties on the eve of the elections, not to mention turkey's role in syria, libya, right on our doorstep. and then there is the fact that turkey has attacked one of our colleagues, evin incir, who is here, also for alleged links with terrorist organisations. yes, turkey has broken with the values that are the democratic values of europe. you have spoken, commissioner, of the freezing of turkey's membership. of course, but there are other instruments that are at our doorstep. today we have the customs union, which is an economic tool with turkey, and turkey benefits from it. and i think that this customs union must also be reviewed.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, a united europe was built on the ashes of the inhuman extremism, the extremism of the holocaust of the jews within europe and that threatened and enslaved states outside it. at that time, many european powers chose trade over timely intervention. they chose their silence over human life. they chose the policy of appeasement over confronting the monster. and so i ask you: is turkey an extremist state or not? it seems that we have a europe which has forgotten the lessons of the second world war, which has forgotten history and is ready to relive it. in the prevailing european mentality, europe would not hesitate to tell hitler and the jews to settle their differences, which is more or less what it says to the greeks and the cypriots who face turkish criminality on a daily basis. the policy of equal distances is not just a disgrace, it is a bomb on the foundations of europe. (applause from the centre and the right)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. turkey, for example, is stepping up its aggression against greece by challenging the sovereignty of the greek islands in the aegean, is pursuing an aggressive policy in cyprus by opening up warsaw, in violation of un resolutions, is accusing sweden and finland of links to terrorism, and is destabilising libya and syria. he doesn't care about the destruction of hagia sophia, which he turned into a mosque, he suppresses religious freedoms of minorities. the european union has started negotiations with the republic of turkey, and yet it is now negotiating with the imitation of the ottoman empire. the european union must, in accordance with its principles and values, keep the accession negotiations on ice until turkey has understood the democratic and substantial changes it must make to its government. dialogue with an authoritarian, irrational regime is harmful to the union and to the turkish people, as it legitimises the leadership of erdogan which is keeping him away from his european future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one thing to be learned from putin's invasion of ukraine, it is zero tolerance, because some people unfortunately see tolerance as weakness. turkey is pursuing a tactic which is at least dangerous, as we have pointed out many times. it is constantly stepping on two 'bars', one in the east and one in the west, and it must be asked to choose, without asterisks, without footnotes, without backtracking, in a clear and direct way. turkey cannot continue to threaten, provoke and blackmail. we must not tolerate any more. turkey cannot always be the 'good kid' we tolerate, we tolerate its shenanigans and try to warn it. ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the growing turkish provocations, my country, greece, is doing its duty both towards europe and towards its southern borders. it is time for europe to do its duty towards greece and say 'enough is enough' in action. (applause from the centre and the right)
the committee on agriculture adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, rapporteur, in my country, greece, the islands are the subject of a very dangerous geopolitical revisionism. the report on islands and cohesion policy, which we are discussing today, shows the need for a radical revision of the development model for europe's islands. the design of a modern european island policy and the faithful application of article 174 of the treaty can transform all those geographical or climatic features of islands, which are often obstacles, into a lever of opportunities for their development. with such a policy to adapt the island economy to the impact of the climate crisis, islands, as closed systems with limited natural resources, can be models for digital and green energy transition, biodiversity enhancement, circular economy in terms of water, materials and waste, and sustainable food systems. i therefore ask the commission to take due account of the key role that island-based development can play in the implementation of the european green deal.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to share with you my pleasure in bringing this important matter to the vote in the house. i would also like to thank all my colleagues from the other political groups for their contribution. with mr omargee as rapporteur we had almost unanimous support for the report in the regi committee. we have succeeded in highlighting the importance of island life for europe and in highlighting the potential of our islands, as well as their contribution to the european economy through green development and tourism. the report describes the economic, social and environmental challenges facing the island regions of the european union and we call for compensation through a targeted policy for the cohesion of both budgetary funds and a series of actions to address the needs of the islands. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the extent to which the commission is prepared to support the amendments proposed by the committee on regional policy and regional planning. the adoption of the report will give a clear direction to the european commission to boost the digital transition, the sustainable economy, sustainable tourism, improving the quality of life of residents, telemedicine, primary health care, interconnectivity with continental regions. the creation of a strategy for european island-building is a major objective. we are all in agreement that even the outermost islands, which are the last frontier of europe, are not abandoned by us and we are creating policies to find solutions to the problems.
mr president, the report and the so-called common strategy for the islands have nothing to do with the problems and anxieties of the islanders. it promotes the priorities of capital, the european union and the bourgeois parties for the anti-people green digital transition, to strengthen energy, transport, tourism groups. it has turned tourism into a gold mine for big business and a workhouse for workers, with no hours, no rights, with humiliating wages. it leaves islanders exposed, without necessary government infrastructure, without civil protection, with negligible health services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of the single market. workers must organize their struggle for collective labor agreements, with guaranteed insurance rights and hours, with wage increases based on the demands of class unions. to fight for frequent, cheap, year-round shipping links with modern and safe vessels, with the needs of islanders at the centre and not the profits of the shipowners.
madam president, i stand before you today deeply insulted and frankly outraged by these slanderous allegations about lack of freedom of press in greece. and i ask that instead of listening to these politically motivated accusations, which are fuelled by reports which claim that the press enjoys greater freedom in countries such as burkina faso and chad, where there is military juntas, that you listen to the facts. and the fact is that greece’s policy on freedom of the press is fully aligned with the commission recommendations. the mitsotakis government has fortified our legislative toolbox to protect journalists. it has created a special task force and a media registry, it’s providing financial support to local media – so we will not tolerate such slander! greece will be a frontrunner in the european media freedom act, and greece – the cradle of democracy – will, on matters of freedom of the press, as always, lead by example.
madam president, mr timmermans, this transition is being made to protect us from the great danger of climate catastrophe and to lead us to a break with fossil fuels and the uncontrolled rise in their prices, which threatens the resilience of societies and democracy. we have the opportunity to move from an energy-scarce economy to an energy-abundant economy. it is wrong to think of decarbonisation as a cost when it is the basis of a new economic boom. we have already seen the results of increasing returns on public investment in the development and penetration of renewable energy, which is now the cheapest source of energy and the fastest growing labour market. the social fund for climate is perhaps the most important package, because it marks the abandonment of the doctrine of the perfect market and moves towards building a new climate welfare state. it's proof that we've learned the lesson of the yellow vests and we realize that if we insist on exploiting ourselves instead of investing in the most vulnerable, the next time we see black vests, that for the green transition to succeed, it has to be fair. the proposed social climate fund was unable to mitigate the negative impacts of the transition, nor to contribute to bold transformative action for systemic change in order to build a sustainable, safe and prosperous future for all. today, parliament's compromise proposal has the potential to send this strong message, to direct the climate fund to financing green investment, housing and transport, for the benefit of the most vulnerable citizens and of the european economy and democracy. finally, we consider it important during the speech to ensure the participation of all stakeholders at every stage of social climate projects in order to achieve popular participation, public acceptance and transparency.
madam president, the hypocrisy of the european union, the united states, nato and the greek governments is enormous. they are doing their utmost to protect the environment, while escalating the imperialist conflict with russia in ukraine, sending huge quantities of heavy weapons, missiles, threatening them with nuclear weapons with incalculable consequences. the fit for 55 package reports show that the aim of the 'green transition' is to boost the profitability of european monopolies in the face of intense competition from russia, china, but also the united states and britain. the unendurable consequences for the people are not hidden by the skyrocketing costs of energy, food, consumer goods, green polluting taxes, the mandatory and expensive purchases of green vehicles and housing. the barbaric exploitative system you defend is not humanizing or "greening". it treats the environment as a scavenger for raw materials and as a dumping ground for the by-products of capitalist production. the only way out is centrally planned social production, which, free from the criterion of profit, private ownership of land, water, energy, natural resources, can protect the environment and put the needs of the people at the centre.
president, mr vice-president, it is time to make a stand if we are to achieve our climate ambitions. and we want to, because we voted overwhelmingly for the climate bill. so we have to be ambitious about this fit for 55. the commission has put forward a coherent package and it is very important that this parliament supports it and further reinforces it where possible. it will not surprise you that as a social democrat i also want to make a very strong commitment to the social transition in each of these packages and components. i am glad, commissioner, that we have kept ets2 on board. there was a lot of resistance. i have also been a strong advocate of it in my own group from the beginning. what we have now is, i think, an acceptable compromise. we'll start with the commercial sector and then move on to the household sector. it is important that there is also a social correction. and as an antwerp citizen, you will not be surprised to know that i am also very happy that we are finally involving the maritime sector in this. for too long they have been able to pollute freely and that time is now definitely over and i think that is very important. the time of free pollution is over, even in the international sector. and we need to tell our trading partners that, too. moreover, the border carbon tax and the ets should be inextricably linked. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to be very courageous tomorrow and to vote as closely as possible to the results of the envi committee.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are in a climate emergency and it is now that europe is deciding on our future climate policy that it will be decided whether we will be able to meet our climate targets. we are in a climate emergency. we need to reduce emissions faster. we must ensure that aviation and shipping are included in the green transition. we must abolish the fossil fuel subsidy system for those parts of industry which still today receive free allowances. we are in a climate emergency, and i am concerned about how conservative forces in this house are working right now to undermine the progressive proposal that we greens have been negotiating. this is it. we cannot continue to postpone the green transition to the future. this is the time to take responsibility.
mr president, according to eurostat, greece has 37% youth unemployment. this is due to the higher cost of the megawatt hour in europe, which reduces production, transfers to more expensive goods and obviously puts pressure on wages. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. with the energy poverty we are causing, we are losing another generation. we regard reducing unemployment as a strategic political objective. with self-respect, we must show flexibility in the data. the coronavirus and new upheavals in supply chains should be a powerful factor in bold re-planning. the failure to adapt policy to the accumulation of problems is self-perpetuating and certainly does not enhance the dignity of europe. it is also close to social analgesia. usually, the study of politics hides something else behind it. thousands of civilians live off the lignite mines and their ecosystems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of the waste water treatment plant is not restricted to the waste water treatment plant.
in writing. – since 2008, europe has lost nearly a third of its primary aluminium production capacity, at a time when global demand has surged. the cbam is proposed to solve this, a way to end so-called carbon leakage. yet, as we approach tomorrow’s vote, we find a solution that is liable to cause more problems than it solves. the cbam is a creative idea with strong potential, but it’s untested and it’s results far from guaranteed. we must therefore proceed carefully. overly ambitious timetables, ignoring the warnings about its effects on exports, and looking to broaden the scope at this early stage, risks a host of unintended consequences. aluminium is a vital industry for europe. in greece, it contributes to nearly 5% of exports, and is a key foundation for wider value chains. infinitely recyclable, and fundamental to the electric vehicle revolution, aluminium lies at the heart of the green transition. we need aluminium, and we need to produce it here in europe. amendments from my group, the epp, seek to deliver the necessary balance and caution we need to see. we cannot afford to deliver a botched cbam. the future of european industries like aluminium is in its hands.
madam president, the ban on abortion is a conservative, backward measure and the consequences are most severe for women in the working classes, those who do not have the financial means to circumvent legislative obstacles, to travel abroad or to choose private institutions. they therefore resort to practices that put their health, even their very lives, in great danger. defending the right to an abortion to terminate an unwanted pregnancy, for whatever reason, is non-negotiable. however, it is not enough to lift legal restrictions to ensure women's rights, as health and reproductive health is treated as a field of investment for groups by all urban governments throughout time and in the us, instead of a right without conditions. today, therefore, it is urgent to escalate the people's struggle for an exclusively public and free health system, incompatible with capitalist profit, with services that will not be limited to abortion, but will concern sex education, family planning, pre-natal control, pregnancy, childbirth. rights that were guaranteed in socialist countries and saved the lives of thousands of women when abortion was banned in almost all of capitalist europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda for tomorrow's summit is particularly important because it focuses on issues that we have been discussing for a very long time and on which it is now time to take decisions, to turn words into action and to find solutions. first of all, the integration of the western balkans into the european family must now be a common objective of all european leaders and the basis for their immediate accession must be laid, without however neglecting the need to respect the bilateral treaties. in this connection, i welcome the commission's positive and historic opinion and the recommendation by president von der leyen to open accession negotiations with ukraine, moldova and georgia, a decision which sends a strong message to those who are in favour of redemption and revision. we must also do everything we can to ensure the future of europe. it is time to lay the foundations for the revision of the treaties, always with the aim of improving the life and everyday life of the european citizen. it is time to put the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe into practice and to lay the foundations for a common european policy in the fields of energy, health, education and defence.
rapporteur. – mr president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, the reason that i am here today is because i believe that until 2030, the single duty of all politics is to deliver the sustainable development goals (sdgs), the political twin of the paris agreement. we all know that our world is in dire straits and in dire need of systemic change. there can be no starker, nor crueler, proof of our current systemic failure than the cascading security crises in climate, in peace, in energy, in crisis, in food and public health that are ravaging populations all over the globe. the sdgs are our collective roadmap of effective and rapid collaboration towards preserving the very foundations of human civilisation, of maintaining the twin hard limits of social cohesion and the planetary boundaries, by addressing the twin anthropogenic causes of their demise: exploding inequalities and runaway climate change. seventeen goals with 169 measurable targets – indivisible, applicable equally to governments, regions, cities, corporations and smes, ngos, sport clubs and trade unions, schools and hospitals, families and individuals, including refugees, already politically agreed by all nations on earth – provide us with our best and only tool to effect the monumental transition in an organised, peaceful and democratic manner. this is the first time in human history that we share a global common danger, and we need this universal language that allows all nations to work in the same direction, at the same very little precious time, exchange problems and solutions, and be transparent and accountable to all people in pursuing evidence-based policy and reporting measurable policy outcomes. as hundreds of millions of people are backsliding into extreme poverty and billions are vulnerable to severe climate disruptions, we have the moral obligation to honour the promise that links the sustainable development goals with our own european green deal: to leave no one behind. to lead the way forward into a safe world with prosperity for all, within the planetary boundaries and in true respect of fundamental human rights. with our report today, we aspire to give a new political drive to the delivery of the sdgs in the eu and globally. ahead of the high-level political forum in july and the summit in 2023, our report hopes to serve as a wake-up call for more and better urgent political action by the eu to restore and accelerate progress in all 17 goals. at the start of her mandate, we welcomed the decision of the president of the commission to make the delivery of strategies her priority and personally coordinate their efforts to this end. this whole-of-government approach to sustainable development is in the right direction. however, this task has been so far only partly successful, with great steps taken, albeit in disparate places of government. we therefore ask for a new implementation strategy with clear, measurable, time-bound targets, with a clear chain of accountability and a roadmap of concrete actions to be presented before the 2023 sdg summit, along with a thorough eu voluntary review, which is very welcome, commissioner. we recognise that the strategy and our efforts to deliver the sdgs will not be successful without the active involvement of citizens and civil society organisations. one cannot ensure that no one is left behind unless everyone has a voice. that is why we call for a mechanism of structured engagement with a balanced, diversified and full democratic participation. there’s a lot we can learn from the future of europe conference here. the report recognises that effectively addressing the multiple crises we’re facing can no longer rely on a system that has failed us and that the radical reorientation of policies is necessary. that is why we are calling for a beyond-gdp approach and a reformed semester process that will be at the heart of a new sustainable development pact that will enshrine the climate law in the european social pillar and replace the stability and growth pact. i would like to thank my colleague barry andrews and the shadow rapporteurs and the technical teams for the work that they have put into this report. the sdgs are the global green deal, and i am sure that we agree that achieving the green deal only in europe really makes no sense. so we have to get on with the programme.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the two co-rapporteurs on the very good result and all the shadow rapporteurs on the very good cooperation we had on this report. the report has given us the opportunity to assess and redefine our priorities for the sustainable development goals and the progress we have made since the adoption of the sustainable development goals in 2015. the report also stresses the importance of implementing and mainstreaming the sdgs in policy initiatives and external relations, while encouraging the european commission to take action to tackle climate change and respect and promote human rights, the right to health, local communities, refugees and migrants, children, people in vulnerable social situations, the right to development, gender equality, women's empowerment and gender justice. finally, it is important that we show in the report that we are present as a union, since the budget of the european union, together with the next generation eu recovery package, is a key tool for achieving the objectives, not only because of its combined amount of eur 1.8 trillion, but also because of its long-term scope and its multinational dimension. (applause from the centre and the right)
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, i would like to thank everybody for their contribution. it shows, with a plethora of views and a plethora of concerns, how holistic this agenda is and how much we need to take care of the whole picture. i would like to take a moment to note the great work that’s been done by the jrc and agencies in the commission in providing monitoring, in tying data, especially localising the sdgs in cities, their application in cities and regions. i think this is very important as we go forward to cop27 where we are going to have to discuss a globally—agreed, scientific—based global goal of adaptation, which is becoming more and more important. i think it is very critical that as we talk about innovation, we recognise our duty to provide basic services, as an organised state, to protect our citizens from the inaction of the past 40 years that has brought us to a world that would be, at a minimum, 1.5 degrees in the best case of international global cooperation on climate action. now what is important about localising the expertise and having this data is that we will have to prove our word. we will have to show that our policies actually work. it will be not enough anymore to monitor progress, to have little ideas that are yellow or green or blue. we will have to come up with hard data to prove that we are doing the right thing. it’s time, eight years before we finalise this progress, to agree and say that even with these indicators we have today, what will be the number that should be in that box in 2030, that we will agree constitutes a success and that we have done our job right? i think that it’s time that we take it much more seriously, and i’m very happy that we see that we are all doing that.
madam president, commissioner, i am very pleased that as the european union we have adopted and are implementing the recovery and resilience mechanism, showing solidarity, unity and readiness in the economic recovery after the pandemic. i am proud that greek prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis spearheaded the proposal for this mechanism and that greece is one of the first countries to submit a comprehensive proposal and we have already received approval for our national recovery and resilience plan. the experience of the recovery and resilience fund is a shining example and should be our guide in dealing with other crises, such as the war in ukraine and the energy crisis, for which the greek prime minister has already tabled a pan-european proposal for a joint response. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. this should also be our guide to the future.
madam president, anti—semitism is fundamentally incompatible with europe’s core values. the eu has adopted a zero tolerance strategy dealing with it and has vowed to put an end to it. there is nothing more dangerous to the future than the poisoning of our children’s mind, which is why the anti-semitism strategy covers education. then how can it be that the commission refuses to condition funding to the palestinian authority when the textbooks used in its schools contain anti-semitic rhetoric and incitement to violence and hatred? surely zero tolerance applies to the content of these textbooks, and surely conditionality of funding would incentivise removing it. the commission’s decision not to condition the latest release of funding to the palestinian authority is a missed opportunity for the eu to purge this poisonous rhetoric. it’s a missed opportunity to combat anti-semitism. it’s a missed opportunity to give palestinian children an education. and it’s a missed opportunity for a more peaceful future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the decision of the supreme court of the united states to ban the right to abortion marks a dangerous blow to the fundamental rights of women by extreme conservatism and overturns gains secured in modern societies through long struggles. this decision will only end safe abortions. women will now turn to dangerous practices and illegal clinics. and that will have a human cost. we support with all our strength the struggle of progressive citizens of the united states to prevent this ban. women's right to abortion is not negotiable. the safeguarding of women's basic freedoms, such as the right to control their own bodies, is not invalidated by court decisions. access to safe, legal and effective abortion is deeply rooted in international human rights law and we have a duty to defend it in every way, both in the us and in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent disasters at the hagia sophia in istanbul are yet another proof of the absolute disrespect shown by the turkish authorities to a unesco world heritage site and one of the greatest symbols of christianity. unfortunately, though, it's not just the destruction of the marble floor, walls or the temple's historic imperial gate, and all this after its official conversion to a mosque; it's also the desecration of the virgin of soumea, the holy pilgrimage of the pontic greeks, with a disco party and a hollywood movie shoot. it is also the conversion of the chora monastery, an iconic byzantine monument with a long history, into an islamic mosque. it is a constant turkish tactic to attack orthodox holy sites, to insult our polarity, to defile and distort the principles and values of christianity and orthodoxy and to undermine our european identity. ladies and gentlemen, today, in the face of these provocative actions, i ask for your support to protect our cultural heritage, not only as europeans but also as christians.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the duty to inform the house of another worrying development in turkey's provocative attitude towards greece, with the aegean as its main focus. turkey has registered the term turkaegean as a european trademark and uses it extensively in a pan-european marketing campaign to promote its tourism product, creating confusion among the traveling public. it must be made clear that the term turkaegean is not innocent. it reflects the escalating turkish aggression and fits into the same policy framework as the provocative statements and repeated threats by turkish officials towards greece. we must build a european wall of solidarity against turkish provocations and send a message in all directions that the questioning of international legitimacy and the greek interests based on it, in all areas - trade, energy and diplomacy - will not be tolerated.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that our parliament, led by our political group, the european people's party, is today adopting a report which meets the expectations of european citizens; a report which recognises in practice the invaluable contribution of informal carers; a report which emphasises the great caring responsibilities of women, but which also stresses the dimension of personal choice in care and, of course, the need for immediate change, for example by transforming care structures into community care. member states are an integral part of this choice and must ensure that europeans can be directed to care options that promote de-institutionalization and the right to choose. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the conditions for the release of prisoners are met. we must investigate cases of abuse and work intensively in the area of awareness raising. and it is on this very same wavelength that i wanted to welcome the action of the greek government to close down institutions with unacceptable living conditions. in conclusion, i call on the european commission to take our report seriously and to put forward an ambitious strategy that puts the needs of carers and the beneficiaries of care services at the centre.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, maria walsh, on her very well-informed report on this important subject. ladies and gentlemen, 11% of adults in the european union have symptoms of psychological distress, and the cost of work-related depression is 620 billion a year. the numbers are relentless and they bring us face to face with a silent epidemic. to tackle it, urgent action is needed with a holistic approach that places mental health on an equal footing with physical health, with a focus on prevention of mental health problems, improving work-life balance, clear regulations on teleworking, and effective support and systematic addressing. it is only necessary to understand that it is for the benefit of all european citizens with mental health issues, of health systems, but also of businesses. because ultimately, employees with mental well-being means increased productivity and participation in the workplace. and this report is the first step in calling for a european strategy on mental health that will cover all areas. let us all work towards that.
dear colleagues, we have with us today the prime minister of greece, kyriakos mitsotakis. καλώς ήρθατε. prime minister, thank you for accepting our invitation to address the parliament and the people of europe as part of our ‘this is europe’ debates. europe is after all a greek word, and the birth of democracy in ancient greece gave an impetus to a creative spirit that produced the architecture, the art and the philosophy that have shaped western civilisation as we know it. no society before the greeks dared to believe that order and freedom were compatible and with the return of war on our continent and power politics on the global stage, we are reminded of the importance of safeguarding democracy, hand-in-hand with our rules-based order, to preserve freedom over autocracy. in over 40 years of membership, greece has given the european union influence and stability in the south-east mediterranean. and no doubt, greece’s importance will continue to grow as a new geopolitical reality unfolds. greece will become an energy hub. connecting the greek electricity grid with the middle east and africa will soon accommodate imports of lower-cost renewable energy into europe, and this signals a new age for greece. this summer will also see greece exit the eurogroup’s enhanced surveillance framework, which helped steer greece’s economy out a crisis which began 12 years ago. it was not easy. this year marks the end of a cycle of restrictions and close monitoring. a new era of sustainable economic growth and prosperity is opening up for greece and its people. so today, we salute greece and every greek citizen for this important milestone achieved. thank you prime minister for being with us to mark this success. dear kyriakos, the floor is yours.
prime minister of greece. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i thank you warmly for the honourable invitation to speak before the elected representatives of the 27 states of our union, at a time that coincides with the end of a difficult chapter for greece and europe, but also with the beginning of our new, joint efforts to face the great challenges of the future that are already knocking on the door of our european family. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the people. on days like this, in 2015, greece found itself one step away from the precipice of leaving the euro. the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union, and it has been a key player in the development of the european union. in fact, as of today, july 5, 2015, a referendum was being held, which almost gave the final blow. and only on the specter of a disorderly bankruptcy did the government back off. but the price has been heavy: closed banks, capital controls and finally a new, third, unnecessary memorandum that has led us into a new round of austerity. no european society has suffered more than greece in the past decade. fortunately for my country, greece in 2022 has nothing to do with greece in 2015. seven years later, i'm standing here on this stage to tell you that those images are gone forever. for three years now, my country has had a new government, which is leading our country into a new era: one that wants it to lead in growth, in reducing unemployment, in increasing investment; now, since august - in one month from now - free of the regime of enhanced supervision; now ready, within the next year - in 2023 - to regain the investment ladder; and with citizens now more united, more optimistic, despite the great difficulties we still face. but i am also here to express my deep gratitude to europe for supporting my country when others were experimenting with its very european nature. all of you who have contributed to the fact that it remains, in the end, the birthplace of democracy in the most democratic, transnational family. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. the grey parenthesis that preceded it was, yes, traumatic, but also instructive. who would have thought a few years ago that greece, which for almost a decade was the backbone of growth in europe, would today have the third-highest growth rate in the eurozone? who would have thought a few years ago that it could be achieved by reducing taxes and contributions, but at the same time without endangering fiscal stability? and who would have predicted a few years ago that the greek public sector, which has been a symbol of bureaucracy, would today be much more digital, much more citizen-friendly? greece, ladies and gentlemen, has turned a page, changed, as the greeks themselves change it every day, no longer believing in false slogans but only in the truth of the deed, because they see the result of the bold measures taken by a reformist government. it has also strengthened the quality of our democracy and purged our political system of the stain of neo-nazi golden dawn. i can now proudly say that as a greek, my country has lifted up the economy and united society, while at the same time regaining its place as an equal and active partner in the european family. i would remind you that athens was at the forefront of the joint european response to covid-19, the vaccination campaign. the eu digital covid certificate was a greek proposal, which was subsequently adopted by the european institutions. it was also one of the first countries to highlight the need to establish a new joint european fund to help our economies recover from covid-19; one of the first countries to draw up a national plan under the next generation eu. and not only that, because at the same time greece became the guardian of europe, when in 2020 - in march specifically - its eastern border received continuous attempts to invade by tens of thousands of illegal migrants from turkey. i remember that, in a gesture of practical solidarity, the president of the european parliament, our dear david sassoli, the president of the european council and the president of the european commission were immediately at our border in evros within 48 hours. it is a question which remains dramatically topical, as the recent tragic events in spain show, but also permanent, as reflected in the slave-trading operations which continue both at sea and on land with methods, unfortunately, increasingly modern. i am proud, however, to say that i am also a european, because in the years that have passed, with the greek crisis as its climax, the institutions of europe have been mobilized and have succeeded in finding new solutions to new problems. the european financial stability facility has evolved into the european stability mechanism. the european bank has opened the door to buying government bonds. the european semester was established. the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution board were agreed, as was the permanent technical assistance of the directorate-general for structural reform support. in other words, europe has supported greece by accompanying it on the road to great change. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. on the other hand - and i will insist on this - there is no such thing as european union solidarity without the corresponding effect on the state to which it is addressed. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. ladies and gentlemen, i spoke at the beginning of the great progress our country has made in recent years. in 2021 we have a very high growth rate, much higher than the forecast exceeded 8%; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and the republic of turkey. the public debt as a percentage of gdp has declined and greece has paid its last obligations to the international monetary fund, two years earlier than we had planned; the commission has also rebuilt its banking system, drastically reducing the non-performing loans of greek banks. all of this is backed up by indicators and numbers. but, speaking to politicians, elected officials in particular, let me point out two elements that constitute an intangible public capital acquired along this route: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as for the environment in which my government was called to act, a glance back at the calendar is enough: hybrid migration attack - this was followed by turkey's national threats in the aegean and eastern mediterranean, which reached their peak in the summer of 2020 - natural disasters, devastating fires from the climate crisis, followed by the pandemic storm. on all these fronts, we have always tried to turn crises into opportunities. with the help of europe, we have better organized the guarding of our eastern borders. our diplomacy has signed agreements on maritime demarcation with italy and egypt, partnerships with israel, strategic relations with the arab world, and our shielding of defence is now backed by strong mutual assistance treaties with france and defence cooperation with the united states. and if there is, however, one example of a test-driven reversal, that was, in my view, pandemic management. not only because it led to us doubling our intensive care units, equipping our hospitals, hiring thousands of new health workers, but because it was the springboard for us to work, to establish a new public national health system. the institution of free personal doctor for all is already being launched in my country and all the structures of primary and secondary care are being reorganized. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. because it is indeed not unusual for a country that is emerging from a long, painful, traumatic ten-year economic adventure to accept one challenge after another; at the same time, however, always trying to stay focused on its goal, which is obviously the well-being of its society. during the pandemic, we've spent tens of billions to support businesses and workers. we've made a series of tax and contribution cuts that have liberated investment and boosted disposable income. but above all, we have made major changes in the working environment. a policy that can be summed up in six words: lower taxes, more jobs, a better life. this year, the increase in the minimum wage cumulatively supplemented one more wage per year. we have introduced the digital work card as a shield against any arbitrariness on the part of the employer, and the worker can now determine transparently the time of his employment and leave. but conditions at workplaces have also finally been brought into line with european standards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the work of the european parliament. it is obvious that, in the face of these needs, whatever progress we have made cannot satisfy us. but it does give the measure of effort; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. i would like to say to the commissioner that the commission is very much aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the accession of greece and portugal to the european union for a number of years. but nothing resembles the 20th century either, as unprecedented changes are taking place across the planet, sparked by russia's unprovoked invasion of ukraine. war has returned to our continent. energy turmoil and inflationary price increases are besetting all european societies. for many countries in the world, the nightmare of food shortages is reawakening. all of this creates a backdrop of only constant instability. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. because the so-called equal distances lead only to the chaotic void that is created between them. the role of the insidious neutral has been condemned many times in history, by europe, by the european parliament and by greece. that question has been answered from the very beginning: we are for peace and international law, and that is why we are standing against the invader who has violated the legality and the existing borders. we are for democracy and western civilization, and therefore reject authoritarian neo-despotism. finally, we are on the side of justice, which is why we do not equate the perpetrator with the victim and always support the defendant. because the battle of ukraine is not just another incident on the international stage; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a step in the right direction, and it is a turning point in the european road, the significance of which can only be seen if each member state compares it with its own national data. in other words, we must today in ukraine prevent all kinds of deeds which could be imitated tomorrow by young would-be agitators. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am referring, of course, to the continuing aggressive behaviour of turkey, which is even claiming to be closer to europe. the european council's clear decisions are already being taken against it. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. in the eastern mediterranean, as we face the great challenge of the war in ukraine, one thing is certain: we do not need new revisionism and revivals of imperial fantasies. the european union is not going to be able to do anything about the situation in the balkans, and it is not going to be able to do anything about the situation in the balkans. and i'm sure in this ongoing struggle we'll have you all as accomplices. so my position has been clear for a long time: we keep our doors closed to threats, we keep our windows open to peaceful contacts. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the timing of the events, however, has not only geopolitical but also economic and social implications. the international energy turmoil is bringing about price increases for all commodities, which in turn are causing a reasonable, expected popular discontent in all our societies. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european union's external relations, such as the european council in brussels in december. and against it, as you know, there are no magic solutions. europe is therefore called upon today to overcome multiple challenges successfully: to draw up a common policy of decoupling from russian energy sources, promoting the green transition more quickly, but at the same time managing the explosion in energy prices; to build more quickly its strategy of autonomy as a strong pole on the world stage; and, of course, to deepen democracy in its functioning and within the member states, because inequalities and distances from the citizen, unfortunately, remain. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. this is the way to show that national governments, the european institutions are not a cold, impersonal bureaucracy, but a coherent system that ultimately concerns every european citizen. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions of the community. we are one of the first countries to be proposed a european energy plan. at national level, as the president-in-office said, we are a complete source of liquefied natural gas, which not only meets the needs of greece, the balkans and, tomorrow, eastern europe. we are promoting our electricity interconnection with cyprus and egypt, with cyprus and israel, so that our entire continent will soon be supplied with clean and cheap electricity from the sun of africa and the middle east. on the european autonomy strategy front, athens is once again taking the lead by assuming a role as a bridge to the western balkans, but also having its defence doctrine included in the security framework, the common security of the southeastern wing of nato, something that also concerns migration and slave traders. in the last few months alone, we have rescued 6,000 shipwrecked people in the aegean, all of them from turkey. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. finally, as far as democracy is concerned, the course of our country is illustrated by certain facts: we have a new constitution by a huge majority. we elected the first woman to the highest state office of president of the republic; our parliament is functioning smoothly. we have voted 331 bills in the last three years, including one that gives voting rights to greeks living abroad so that they can vote from their permanent place of residence; and, of course, we have instituted regulations on rights that had no precedent in the greek legal order. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and it is therefore asking the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further aggravated by the threat of war. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of culture. i have to say that despite the difficult timing, i'm reading the data optimistically. united europe has responded more effectively than other continents to the onslaught of covid-19. very large countries with strong economies, like china, have yet to catch up. it was a big break for europe to decide on a common market for vaccines, and it was a big break for europe to make the big leap to create the next generation eu, to borrow at the supranational level and to channel resources through subsidies and loans to all european countries to support our economies, to be able to overcome the great coronavirus crisis. all of this seemed impossible three years ago. europe is a rising power in technology, a world power in renewable energy. we have a specific plan for climate change and i know how interesting and how difficult the debate you will have tomorrow on taxonomy will be, madam president, when, despite the difficulties, the air of democracy is still circulating between our countries. we have the tradition, the will and the culture of our peoples as resources to move forward. the latter is not at all insignificant when you consider that major liberal powers such as the united states are now divided over the issue of abortion, an issue which has been settled in europe for decades. progress, therefore, is in our hands. the 750 billion for the new fund we have set up are intended to serve their title and role, namely to finance the recovery and the resilience of our countries. we should be guided by the experience and lessons learned from the four great challenges we have experienced in the last decade: the debt crisis, the refugee crisis, the pandemic and, now, the energy crisis. what we learned from them: first, that in an interconnected world no state can handle crises of this magnitude alone, however large they may be; and secondly, as i said, when europe moved fast with common mechanisms and decisions it eventually proved resilient. and these two lessons are called upon to be applied now in the face of the great energy disruption. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must have the strength, we must have the courage to be able to intervene in markets when they have essentially stopped working. we must break this link between natural energy prices and electricity prices - this is something i have repeatedly asked the european council to do and fortunately i see that there is now a move on the part of the commission to look at how we price electricity on our continent. i am speaking as a liberal politician, but i am able to look ahead and call for public european intervention when markets are no longer working for the benefit of the people. the green, zero-emission economy is coming. the question is how to get there and how to make the rapid green transition a reality in the meantime, without simultaneously collapsing our household and business budgets. this is the great challenge we will face in the coming months, certainly in view of the difficult winter ahead. we know we need to accelerate the penetration of renewable energy no one can argue with that. my country will add almost 2,000 megawatts of new solar and wind capacity this year alone. we know that we need more interconnections so that no member state of the union is an island cut off from the european networks. these are the great challenges we will face. and it is a unique agenda for the resilience and growth of the whole european family. six of them are for me - and i will close with this thought in order to be able to answer your questions - the great challenges that we will have to face in the coming years: european defence and a common security policy, taking into account the challenges of migration; banking integration and protection of deposits; an effective european energy plan; a permanently coordinated action based on the recovery and resilience mechanism; deepening democracy and tackling demagogy; and tackling the scourge of fake news, but also a new european union address in the western balkans, which we must not forget in this room, an address that greece as a balkan country is actively promoting. we want europe in the balkans and we want the balkans in europe. we all know, ladies and gentlemen, that these battles are ongoing. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the union. europe fought for freedom and won it, along with prosperity that the whole world envies. her search for unity and a clear sense of identity continues. but its only certainty is the uncertainty that characterizes modern life. i would like to conclude by saying that we have a duty to protect the freedom and prosperity that we have won, that previous generations have won on our behalf, but also to achieve the european identity that we wanted. but our first task is to ensure stability. because, in today's circumstances, strong states are stable states. and in a changing world, a strong european union is a stable, self-reliant union that will unite its peoples and take the lead in the world.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, on 7 july 2019, almost exactly three years ago, the prime minister won the greek elections in a landslide victory. the greek people sent a strong message of support and trust to you, prime minister, and to nea demokratia to steer the future of greece and turn a page on the failed policies of alexis tsipras and syriza. when you came into office, greece was in bad shape, i think that was obvious. after painful years of poor leadership by tsipras, you put greece back on track – and thank you for this remarkable and excellent work. thanks to you and thanks to your government, greece is back in europe and that is good news. it is important for europe to have greece back. first of all, everybody, i think, should and must underline that greece is in a way not a normal country because democracy was born in greece. our western civilization was born in greece. europe was born in greece, not to mention the princess taken away by zeus to beautiful crete, the princess who gave her name to our old joint project, europa. there is no europe without greece. greece is back on economic issues. last year, even in crisis times, the greek economy grew by more than 8%. when it comes to growth, greece is among europe’s top five countries. you managed to reduce unemployment in greece. in greece, in the quarter from summer 2019 to february 2022, more than any other country, you did it and the people feel the success in their daily life. thanks to your efforts and to the determination of the government, greece is finally also on the way to exiting the surveillance programme. on another aspect, greece is back and that is about the security issues. since you took over, greece seriously cares about security again. greece, due to its geographic position, is key when it comes to european security. europe is not to be criticised but to thank greece for protecting and defending our common external borders. and i want to be very clear on this, and i see that each and every single event on the border between turkey and greece is in this european parliament an issue, and it’s okay that we discuss the issues. but on the other hand we saw in spain, on the spanish-moroccan border, an event where more than 20 people died. and i have to tell you that the socialists and the greens didn’t initiate a debate about the events in spain, but they initiate always a debate when it is about greece. so we should care about the migrants and not about party political issues when it is about migrants. i have to be clear on this, that the ppe is strongly on the side of our greek authorities. erdoğan is misusing migrants as a political weapon like lukashenko did. for us that’s clear. our border guards, who are doing everyday the job of protecting people and the border, we trust them, we are respecting their work every day in the interests of all of us. what we have to do is to strengthen frontex and what we have to do is also to clarify the rules for pushbacks, and i want to thank margaritis schinas for his work in this clarification process. greece is back also on geopolitical issues. tsipras, i have to say, mainly cared about maduro. you care about the european interests in the mediterranean, and that is good. not only in the last years do we witness an increasingly destabilising role played by turkey, dangerously raising the tensions in the region. what turkey is doing is unacceptable. it is not a problem between greece and turkey, but a problem between europe and turkey. greece’s interests are european interests in this border conflict. and we all have to ask ourselves, and probably, mr prime minister, you can reflect a little bit in your final statement, how do we best deal with erdoğan’s turkey, a turkey that is becoming more and more provocative and aggressive? and greece is back on foreign and defence issues. putin and erdoğan tell us one lesson – europe must grow up when it comes to foreign and security policy. it is great news that finland and sweden have finally joined nato. and as ppe, our parties in finland and sweden always fought for becoming nato members. the socialists finally also supported this approach. the ppe is fully supporting nato, but we also think that europe has to grow up. we must abolish the unanimous vote principle in the council side when it comes to foreign affairs, and within nato we have to build a true common european defence with concrete projects like a cyber-brigade or a european missile defence system. europeans have to be capable of defending themselves if it is needed. and if you will allow me, i want to finalise with a more general consideration, because you delivered, mr prime minister, a great speech in the us congress and in the senate a few weeks ago. it was a big honour for you to be there as one of the european leaders. and when we look to the us and we also look to our european democracies, we have to see that these democracies are under stress. we are facing populism and extremism, and probably most fundamental question is, can we agree still in our societies about what is true, what is the reality? because we have fake news discussions – you mentioned this – we have propaganda from china, from russia, which tried to change what is true, the reality which we are based on. and without the common understanding in our societies about what is true, what is the reality, you cannot build up a lively democratic discussion between greens, socialists, the ppe and so on and so forth, and people cannot decide. that’s why the idea to strengthen this common base is so important. the fight against propaganda, too often this is unanswered. we have to strengthen good and serious journalism, and we have to make clear that the tech giants have a responsibility. we will vote this week on the dma and the dsa, which would give and will give an answer on these challenges. so thank you, dear kyriakos, thanks to you greece is back in europe. the greek people can be proud about these achievements.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, in the last decade europe has been confronted by a series of crises which have sharpened inequalities to an extreme. the inability to agree, coordinate and respond comprehensively to these challenges has made the era of convergence seem like a distant past. the more the opportunities for a better life diminish for millions of european citizens, the more they feel outside the walls of a society of equal opportunities, the greater the threats to liberal democracy. the stagnation imposed on the political project of european integration by the conservative forces of europe has given the space to the deniers of the european vision to exploit it to their advantage. this is the duo responsible for keeping us, mr prime minister, a slow-moving ship, as you said a few weeks ago. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. but the world is changing and we must rise to the occasion. we owe it to ourselves to do more, and to do it now. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on the matter. we must make citizens feel safe again in the face of the geopolitical, climate and economic challenges of our time. positive steps such as the recovery and resilience fund must be given a permanent character, especially for the greek people who have experienced harsh economic policies. it should be used as a tool for social cohesion and to strengthen the resilience of our society and economy. i want to make a parenthesis. it's good to remember the humiliating referendum of 2015, but let's be fair. and remember very well the humiliating time in 2009 when you led the country to a 15.6% external deficit and bankruptcy, as the european parliament resolution attests, because it was these conservative choices that opened the pandora's box in greece. we must therefore speak for young people and create new opportunities to reduce immigration, to strengthen the purchasing power of the greeks, who are the second lowest in europe. according to eurostat data, greek citizens are proportionally much more burdened than other europeans. there is no provision in the recovery fund for the construction of low-cost social housing, as has been done in other european countries with similar problems. in the health sector, the fact that greeks are third in europe in private spending is indicative of the real needs that exist and the national health system and primary care must be further strengthened. in order to address the climate crisis, the recovery fund could be the key driver for the deployment of renewable energy sources through home photovoltaic and energy communities. we have the strange novelty, while the whole european union is aiming at the total decarbonisation of the economy, that you are limiting yourselves to just de-lethisation, as was shown in the recent climate law that you voted, making the country vulnerable to the very expensive and imported natural gas. the european commission is giving the possibility of revising national plans to include in them now investments such as upgrading the country's electricity grid through storage and all the necessary things we need to strengthen energy autonomy and a just transition. but i would also like to mention the need for geopolitical security. putin's illegal and destructive invasion of ukraine is a tragic event for the ukrainian people and a very costly lesson for european elites on how to deal with authoritarian revisionist leaders. the appeasement, as it turns out, doesn't work. they need strong deterrence. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. that's why i'm asking you to take a seat. the greek people, through ten years of continuous crises, have lost almost 25% of their gdp and are forced to pay billions to shield our country's sovereignty in armaments programmes, while european states continue to arm those who threaten our sovereign rights. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. and i am very glad that mr weber, in a recent interview, said he supported it. now you're backing it. but when the amendment came from the socialists, you personally voted against it. it is also unthinkable that european heads of state would adopt erdogan's narrative on terrorism when in turkey anyone who disagrees with his authoritarian practices, such as kavala and demirtaş, is automatically branded a terrorist and an enemy of the nation. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we have a duty to make all citizens of the european union feel equally safe wherever they live, from sweden and finland to greece and cyprus. we must therefore make the necessary institutional changes to finally have a common foreign and security policy. at a crucial moment in history, when nightmarish scenarios reveal our limits and the wrong choices of everyone's past, we must breathe new life into the european vision, making it once again attractive and hopeful for all the peoples of europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, mr prime minister, thank you very much for coming. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his excellent report. having recently completed my studies at the aristotle university of thessaloniki, i found that going abroad is an attractive option for 8 out of 10 of my colleagues. for example, in the eight years from 2008 to 2016, it is estimated that about half a million new greek students and graduates left at a cost of about 15 billion euros, according to the national higher education authority. but what is the cause? first, unemployment. according to eurostat's monthly survey, greece is the country with the highest youth unemployment rate, with a rate of over 30%. we are the last oecd country in employment for young graduates aged 25 to 34, 14 percentage points below the average. secondly, low wages make it difficult to make a living. unfortunately, young greeks are often forced to do something completely different from what they studied in order to remain in our country. of course, education is not free. the cost to the greek state is estimated at 33,000 euros per graduate, but they are ultimately used by another country. we can understand that greece is coming out of this situation only damaged. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the universities are not sufficiently connected to the labour market in greece and the european union. there is no such thing as an ecosystem that drives young people to venture and innovate and, most importantly, to use their knowledge. but as we know, work can make our young people really independent so that they want to stay in greece - not be customers, but citizens - and, of course, be able to start a family so that we can deal with the huge demographic problem. so, in addition to the under-utilization of our outstanding scientists, we must also consider an emerging problem. this is nothing but demographics. i would remind you that now for every two greek adults there are about 1.2 children, whereas we need more than 2 to survive as a nation. but our nation is dying and the greek family is disappearing. our young, bright minds, excellent scientists and vital to our country, must return. we often see in the news young greeks innovating, entrepreneurial and excelling in foreign countries, but we wonder why this is not happening in greece. in your campaign speeches you made extensive reference to tackling the brain drain. post-election, you identified the root of the problem in universities, and in fact little has been done. so i want to ask you two key questions on this particular issue: first, can greece bring back all those greeks who left during the last decade of the crisis, and second, how do you plan to reverse this phenomenon?
mr president, the average household is experiencing continuous price rises in energy, fuel, basic necessities and food. this is the result of the strategy of energy liberalisation, the green transition, the green taxes, which are being magnified by the imperialist war in ukraine, the sanctions against russia and the countermeasures. warnings of a hard winter are accompanied by measures to mock the people, which are marred by accuracy and huge inflation. at the same time, the bourgeois governments and the european union are rewarding the big energy and other groups with the heavy taxation of the people, the recovery and resilience fund, shielding them from the possibility of a new crisis. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the working people must escalate the struggle against the imperialist war in ukraine, demand the abolition of unfair taxes on fuel, energy and consumer goods, demand collective labour agreements, with increases based on contemporary needs, the planned utilization of all domestic energy sources, including lignite with the abolition of unacceptable eu terms and fees.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr schmit, it is a great pleasure to see you and i must say that we are very pleased to be working with you. i think we're headed in the right direction, and we're gonna share some thoughts, see if we can help. the social economy works or should work over time as a support for society in times of crisis. we have seen this in the great crisis of the last decade in greece with the bankruptcy and the memoranda. we've seen it in the union, you've all seen it with the covid-19 pandemic. we are living it now in europe where we are called upon to face a crisis from putin's war to the war in ukraine. look, the social economy can function as a complementary but also parallel model of economic development; a bottom-up model, contributing to social cohesion, to tackling unemployment, to the real inclusion of the vulnerable, what we call, invisible people. and here i want to share an experience: i spent 33 years in greek drug treatment communities as a volunteer. we worked on these social economy models with patients and it went well. people were helped and supported on their feet. the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a serious matter. i also raise other issues, such as respect for labour rights, always in the spirit of solidarity and democracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe the opposite, that is, that this is not a social washing. the economic incentives imposed to support it must not become an opportunity for large private companies to speculate again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, dear colleagues, the taxonomy is perhaps one of the greatest achievements of this house – a true innovation of climate policy and finance, a non—binding but powerful tool that uses science—based targets to eliminate greenwashing and to crowd private investment towards activities that significantly contribute to the union’s environmental and climate goals. on the other hand, the delegated act to arbitrarily baptise fossil gas and nuclear power ‘green’ is perhaps the commission’s worst moment yet. it would terminally traumatise the integrity of the taxonomy by dynamiting its scientific foundation and destroy the union’s climate action credibility by sticking to the murderous fallacy of bending science to the experiences of markets, of expecting the earth system to enter into political compromises, of treating the climate emergency with ‘business as usual’. worse, it is an act of political chicanery as it lumps two different energy sources that may or may not have different transition uses into a single act in order to extract our votes. let us not allow this grave mistake. let us object to this delegated act and let us save the taxonomy and wait for a better proposal.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. – madam president, the recent ministerial conference of the wto acts as a stark reminder of what exactly is at stake when we talk about the defence of multilateralism. so was mc12 actually a success? what was genuinely achieved? after 20 years, there was an agreement on fishing subsidies, a compromise on the trips waiver, and the long-standing position of exempting e-commerce from tariffs was maintained. but can these achievements be characterized as a success? well, apparently they can, if not because of the achievements themselves, because of our excessively modest expectations. set against the backdrop of war in ukraine, growing protectionism, trade weaponisation, frankly, we’re all relieved that mc12 managed to achieve anything at all. so yes, the answer is that mc12 was a success. but the long-term future of the wto is still far from certain. and though a light continues to shine on the future of multilateralism and the wto lives to fight another day, we must all intensify our efforts in defending multilateralism.
madam president, mr prime minister, your priorities for the coming six months are very substantial, because it is true that europe is again facing an unexpected challenge with russia's aggressive war in ukraine, and it comes after an equally unexpected crisis, this covid-19 pandemic. it is therefore essential that health should be at the centre of our policy, and i am therefore particularly pleased that you have included the issue of rare diseases among your priorities. and this process comes as negotiations on health issues, such as the revision of the orphan drug act, will begin under your presidency. the european union must be at the forefront of innovation so that we can lead the way and produce the original substance here on european soil. it's about the quality of our citizens.
madam president, the usefulness of today's debate is obvious. you are late in cursing putin, but in 1991 you applauded the gorbachev-yeltsin-putin clique when they dissolved the soviet union, the socialist state where for decades the peoples lived as brothers. until january, you were praising the putin government's intervention in kazakhstan against the great popular mobilizations. the greek government awarded her a prize last year. only the kke opposed it. today's russia, despite the pretexts for a struggle between democracy and authoritarianism, is a capitalist state, just like you. putin is one of you. the euro-atlantics and russia are complicit in the war slaughter, the anti-people measures. you reward anti-communism that feeds the far right, shielding the exploitative system you serve. the imperialist conflict in ukraine is between two bandit camps: us-nato-eu-ukrainian bourgeoisie against capitalist russia for the control of pipelines and markets by the monopolies at the expense of the people. we are with the peoples and their independence, fighting against the monopolies, against their alliances, for a break from the carnage of war now.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, how can such a scandal fit into a minute? but it fits in one name: mitsotakis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. we have the prime minister of a democratic country, greece, who by his own law is head of the national intelligence service and who is monitoring his political opponent, a man named nikos androulakis, who is a member of the european parliament. and through mr androulakis we monitor all the meps who have conversations with mr androulakis. and the day before yesterday you heard that a leading member of the official opposition party, syriza, mr. spirtzis, is also being monitored. it is not possible, therefore, that mr mitsotakis, by his own personal decision, should create internal enemies and create a new type of rule of law that serves him. i think that mr mitsotakis should therefore give us answers here in the european parliament. why is he watching us through mr. andrulachis? and i'll tell you one last thing: the problem in greece is that there is no investigation to find out why surveillance is being done, but to find out where the leak came from and we found out.
mr president, let’s go straight to the truth and i would ask kindly, commissioner, that you rectify your statement. the greek government has stated very clearly that it does not use illegal spyware. the case of mep androulakis, is legal and i emphasise legal surveillance is being examined by the judiciary, by an investigative committee in parliament and by the independent authorities in greece. we’ve also fortified our legislative framework and we urge the european union to do the same. we will be a frontrunner in this because we have nothing to hide. i know mythology is part of greece’s identity, and perhaps it is this love of myths that nefarious forces and enemies of greece and the prime minister, kyriakos mitsotakis, seek to take advantage of when they twist and entangle myth with truth to destabilise greece and to gain advantage in the upcoming elections in 2023. but let me tell you and let me be absolutely clear, we will not tolerate myths that are aimed at tarnishing the credibility of either greece, its government or its prime minister, kyriakos mitsotakis. the greek people will separate myth from truth, and i expect this house to do the same.
mr president, for over a month now, the workers at the malamattina factory in thessaloniki have been waging a militant strike. they demand the immediate re-employment of the 15 colleagues who were unjustly dismissed, against the harmful changes in their employment status through individual contracts, reductions in wages and benefits, through which the company, which has been written off 55% of its debts, further increases its profits. they are confronted by the forces of repression, who, on the side of the employers and at the behest of the government, are trying to intimidate them with beating and chemicals. they have the laws of the new democracy and syriza governments against the right to strike, to restrict trade union activity and collective agreements, which the european union has signed. they have the workers of all greece on their side in the just struggle for job security, for work with rights, for wages at the level of modern needs, for collective agreements, for the overthrow of all anti-working laws; that's why they're holding out. victory to the strikers of malamathina, against the employers' terrorism and strike, against state repression!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with mr putin's war in ukraine and his constant threats to cut off the supply of gas to europe because of the sanctions we have rightly imposed, we are facing a new major crisis. a difficult winter is coming, for both households and businesses, and it can have devastating consequences. we must therefore react immediately, unitedly and effectively. the adoption of the proposals of the greek energy minister, mr skreeka, for a permanent european mechanism to decouple gas prices from electricity prices and to recover the surpluses of the electricity companies, among others, would be in the right direction. it is therefore necessary, as the greek prime minister, kyriakos mitsotakis, says, to adopt a pan-european solution to this pan-european problem. we can't delay any longer, there's no other time. of course, mr putin is responsible for this crisis, but it is our responsibility to deal with it now and all together. let's get on it.
mr president, extreme weather events are now affecting all countries, rich and poor. we experienced it on a large scale in this hottest and driest summer in the history of europe - the coldest, however, that our children will experience. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we know that only rapidly decoupling from fossil fuels can keep us below the 1.5°c threshold and out of the gates of the fiery hell that our summers will be. it is our democratic duty and a demand for justice not to leave helpless those who, through our own responsibility, not god's or nature's, are increasingly affected by the climate catastrophe. we expect the commission to set up the adaptation fund to support the regions in planning and implementing measures to mitigate the impact of the crisis on the european population. the debate on loss and damage, the main topic of cop 27, must now be opened up in europe too, commissioner.
your honor, attica, hebrew, lesbian, and valli caldas. i'm not sure what you're talking about. hundreds of thousands of acres of burned forest, national forests, natura sites. hundreds of homes destroyed, small businesses, firefighters and civilians injured. the european union and the greek governments have in recent years invoked the 'climate crisis' and 'extreme events' as the causes of major disasters. but such climate changes and extremes have always existed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fire protection system is not disrupted, and that the fire protection system is not disrupted. the commercialisation of land and the european union's forestry strategy. the eu's 'green transition' strategy subsidizes groups for placing res, unchecked, in protected areas, but considers the staffing and equipment of civil protection to be an intolerable cost. the solution is not the various resceu programmes which recycle the scarce firefighting equipment from country to country, but the development of integrated protection plans, the staffing of the services under the responsibility of the state, the provision of the necessary firefighting equipment and the removal of unacceptable conditions and conditions for compensation for victims through the european union solidarity fund.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two years after the commission's initial proposal, we are very pleased to be here to approve the final agreement on the directive on adequate minimum wages. the road was hard. some at the beginning of the journey did not think it would come to fruition, but with much effort and persistent negotiations we managed to agree on a directive-station. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a directive which can create the framework for workers to have a decent standard of living, but also tackle inequalities, promote gender equality and help to preserve the competitiveness of european economies. it now remains for the main recipients, the member states, to put it into practice. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the following: for a strong social europe.
mr president, apart from the well-known crocodile tears for dignity and the 'working poor', the so-called 'sufficient wage' directive is actually pushing the bottom of already low wages. for the greek data, it recommends a salary of 600 euros; lower than the minimum. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of the single market. the shipyard workers are not included, foreshadowing even lower wages at the whim of the shipowners. this is why the greek industrialists' and shipowners' associations, new democracy and syriza are celebrating, as they have scrapped collective agreements, abolished collective bargaining and established a minimum wage by law. but the way forward is being shown by the great workers' struggles that are gaining strength throughout europe, not by the european union regulations that make poverty a habit. the workers have nothing to expect from the european monopoly union. overcoming any waiting, organized, they must fight for wages and entitlements based on modern needs, for real relief from accuracy and energy costs, based on their own needs and not the dictates of their groups and governments.
madam president, just before the onset of this difficult winter, all eyes are on the decisions that the european union will take to deal with the energy crisis and to reduce energy prices. the increases will affect every european household, every business and every citizen without exception who already sees their purchasing power diminishing daily and are unable to meet even their basic needs. the greek government, already aware of the scale of the problem, has taken action to protect and relieve the citizens, and in this direction it calls for the immediate adoption of coordinated actions and measures by the european union. the european solution is therefore a one-way street. the union now, more than ever, needs to show rapid reflexes, as it did during the pandemic, and respond with actions and targeted measures to the problem of energy price increases. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. for a year now we have been asking the commission in vain to propose regulatory measures on the energy market to halt the unprecedented increases in electricity prices. but instead of substantial corrective interventions in the failed, distorted and imperfect european energy market model, we have seen only piecemeal measures so far, which have not touched the core of the problem. the solution to the worsening energy crisis is public control of energy as a social good to which households and businesses must have unhindered access. the commission must now propose the implementation of effective measures, namely: a maximum profit rate on the wholesale market so that there is no room for surplus profits, a mandatory fixed rate of contracts on the wholesale electricity market, the decoupling of the wholesale price from natural gas as was achieved on the iberian peninsula, protection for consumers who cannot afford the predatory adjustment clauses, and taxation of the excess profits of energy companies. in view of the difficult winter ahead and the danger that the energy crisis could become a profound humanitarian crisis throughout europe, there is a need to strengthen controls on the entire energy market, since it is not possible to deal with the crisis with recklessness and profit-making. it is our duty to protect all european citizens from the skyrocketing cost of energy by ensuring their access to affordable prices.
madam president, commissioner, as a member of this house from greece, i am more aware than most of the importance that the entire southern neighbourhood has for the european union. today, however, i’d like to focus on one of its members, namely israel – one of our closest and most like-minded partners, not just in the region but in the world. after ten years, the european union is finally preparing to reconvene the association council with israel. this is a moment where i think we need to send some very clear messages. in our report we note the importance and achievements of the abraham accords. we need to hear this message echoed loud and clear by our counterparts in the council. it’s important that israel hear this, and it’s important that other regional powers hear this. iran is deeply opposed to the rapprochement between israel and the european union and its neighbours. this week, it threatened an attack on tel aviv, echoing previous threats, citing the accords. it’s therefore of the utmost importance that we make our position clear. we welcome the abraham accords. we support the abraham accords, and we will not tolerate efforts by iran to undermine regional peace and stability.
madam president, mr michel has been trying to convene a mediterranean summit for some time now, and the only thing he can do is to get turkey involved. we should remind mr michel that just as finland is famous in europe for its education system, germany for its industry and france for its culture, turkey is famous for its genocides. after wiping out a third of its population, which was christian, the kurds are next. and i want to be a little bit more specific. on august 19, in the town of hasaka in northeastern syria, the un organized a volleyball match among young girls. a turkish drone bombed the venue of the match, killing four little girls. the only mistake these girls made is that they were born kurdish in a neighborhood that turkey considers its own. julius caesar said that man is by nature what he wants, what he believes. the european union is also interested in a 'normal' turkey. so let us remind the european union that turkey is not only not 'normal' but is a terrorist state and a major funder of isis.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, it is a little frightening to hear fascism in the european parliament, but let us get down to business. the tooling, which sounds very strong here, must also have an identity. so turkey is not exploiting the issue? i would say that there is an ideological battle going on here and i think we have it figured out or we have them figured out. for years we have been trying to explain and convince people that the only realistic solution to the phenomenon we are discussing today is the legal and safe channels for applying for asylum, the forced and equal relocation of all refugees to the member states and policies of genuine integration. we now know that the far right knows that this is realistic, but they pretend not to understand. because it does not fit and does not 'fit' with the narrative of the far right in europe and its allies, because they will lose the possibility of exploiting refugees and migrants, of exploiting suffering, that is, the need of people to live. i agree with mrs sippel, i agree with the socialists, i agree with renew, i agree with mrs strik of the green group and i am trying to take the matter a little further. without the instrumentalisation of these people, how will the 'enemy within' be created that suits the far-right rhetoric and the polarization of potential voters? that's what we live for, 35 days. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. one of the victims of surveillance in greece is journalist malihoudis, who was doing journalistic research on the refugee issue. it is an enemy to mr mitsotakis, just as it is an enemy to the socialists, the greens, renew, the ngos, the humanitarian organizations. here, then, our views - which we are in alliance with or agree with - i would not call 'left-wing' or 'radical' or 'humanitarian', but i would call them realistic, substantive and in full alignment with the decisions and values of our union. and we all know very well here that apathy to the sea will always have fatal consequences, as will fences. they do not prevent the need for people to flee war zones. we cannot allow the circumvention of rights through grey procedures as a deterrent. our europe has nothing to do with america, it will not become russia, it will not become china, it is what we call the 'lighthouse of democracy'. that's our point of view.
on behalf of the left group. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but there are some points to be aware of. firstly, the financing of the new european bauhaus should not take away from the funds allocated to culture, especially at a time when the commission is seeking to reduce them. secondly, we must always bear in mind that europe is a mosaic of cultures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but not only to build on it, but to show it off. it's a great opportunity to do that. only united in our diversity can we achieve our goals for our common european future and, of course, for the green transition and for any other transition. (applause from the centre and the right)
madam president, the president's speech was a war-like frenzy. why would you do that? the european monopolies, which are exploiting the imperialist war and sanctions against russia in various ways, are now taking a stand for the reconstruction of ukraine. the peoples, therefore, should not choose sides in the imperialist war, the us-eu-nato confrontation with russia and china. and your european solution to energy costs is really blackmailing the people: 'pay or freeze'. but the precision jet started long before the war. the reason is the eu's 'green transition', energy liberalisation and desalination, which are shielding the profitability of the groups. and of course, the idea that the energy giants will share their profits with the people is a travesty. the capitalist system you defend today, in 2022, lacks even the most basic. it is a question of the future of the european union. the european union is only getting worse. the solution will be found by the people! demanding drastic price reductions and caps on fuel and energy, abolition of unfair taxes. energy should be a social good and not a commodity, with the people owning the wealth and disengagement from the european union.
madame president, as the covid-19 pandemic evidenced, there is currently a limited legal framework for eu-level coordination into serious cross-border threats to health. we need a common eu-level response to harmonise communication and to show solidarity among member states. presenting these proposals sets a historical and more comprehensive legal basis for the eu to prepare and respond to future crises. in my view, to do so sufficiently, we should guarantee that every eu citizen has equal and easy access to all health-care systems among the member states, and especially when moving freely from one state to another. moreover, as most of the consequences after a serious cross-border health threat have a great impact on mental health, we should invest in protecting our citizens’ mental health by outlining a strategic framework that provides for mental wellbeing and support. dear madam commissioner, let’s use the lessons learnt from covid-19 to embrace eu guidance on preparedness, surveillance and risk assessment and early warning supported by improvement to data collection to better respond to future cross-border health threats.
madam president, recently, yet another instance of disinformation and slander of greece’s handling of migrants at its borders was proven to be categorically false when ngo human rights 360, which represents 38 asylum seekers stranded on the islet in the river evros, admitted that it had been misled about the facts. thus, the assertions of the greek government and authorities were true all along – namely that the 38 migrants were stranded on turkish territory, no person rescued was in need of hospitalisation, and there were no injured, missing or dead children. as in this case, greece protects our european borders with full respect for international law and our humanitarian duties. by contrast, it is turkey, which weaponises migrants, exploiting their plight and their suffering. an apology is owed to greece by those who slander it, which sadly includes opposition meps seeking petty political gains. but we will fight against those who discredit and slander greece on the international stage because, as they say in my country, ‘a clear sky fears no lightning’, and in greece the skies are blue and clear.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but the report does not and cannot solve the problems it identifies, but aims to re-serve the eu strategy implemented by bourgeois governments, which consciously and chronically perpetuates miserable living conditions, paving the way for the action of the circuits and demonizing the roma for crime, while shifting state responsibility to various charities and non-governmental organizations, increasing their impoverishment and hostage. the european union and governments whose strategy is to crush the rights of working people as a whole cannot provide a way out. to break the vicious circle of ghettoization once and for all, it is necessary to ensure permanent and stable employment, modern housing, public health and education services, and respect for roma culture and way of life. this is the way to their real social integration against the discrimination, against the pressing problems perpetuated by the system of exploitation.
madam president, at a time when europe is facing multi-layered challenges, we must not forget population groups such as the roma, who face discrimination and social exclusion on a daily basis. that is why the resolution we have before us is of particular value, because it calls on the governments of the european union to rise to the occasion, and i can only express my satisfaction that some of them, like the greek government, in dealing with past failures and omissions, are already doing so with a holistic national strategy that emphasises their active integration and the promotion of equal treatment and their active participation in social and economic life. with these tools and with the support of local authorities and the roma communities themselves, let us work to enable them to finally fully exercise their rights and obligations as citizens of this union.
mr president, the death of mahsa amini is shocking, but sadly it’s not surprising. it’s not surprising to the people of iran whose basic human rights are routinely trampled on. and it’s not surprising to the united states, which is accused by ayatollah khamenei of instigating the protests. and it’s not surprising to israel, which iran wants to wipe off the face of the earth. it’s not surprising to the islamic revolutionary guard corps, which regularly engages in terrorist acts and is now carrying out raids on the protesters. it’s not surprising, but it actually is terrifying that all of this comes from a country which is building nuclear weapons. it’s even more sad that the european union’s response is currently basically statements and debates instead of actions. so please, high representative, please, mr borrell, surprise us pleasantly and do something. i call upon you to immediately take steps to designate the islamic revolutionary guard corps as what it is, namely a terrorist organisation.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, as i have already said, with the ceasefire agreements and the ceasefires waiting for a blank check, azerbaijan, taking advantage of armenia's position between iran and turkey and its military superiority, attacked again, and the union's position was limited, as in previous instances of azerbaijani aggression, to a mere verbal condemnation. but history will record that this was ineffective. i understand the union's economic ties with azerbaijan as an energy partner for azerbaijan and for my own country, greece. but can this be enough to allow the loss of armenia and the toleration of barbarism? we must as a union make it clear to the azerbaijani regime that we are not prepared to buy our values. the union must play an active role, including by setting up a peacekeeping mission to replace the devious russians who have taken on this role. so is the union considering this possibility?
mr president, i would like to ask the vice-president to clarify, if possible, what future actions he believes could be taken to stop the hostilities and bring about a peaceful regime in the region.
mr president, the annexation of ukrainian territory announced by president putin is adding fuel to the fire of imperialist war, as is the us-eastern support of course to the reactionary government of zelensky with heavy weapons and other means. the new tensions between euro-atlanticism and the emerging eurasian bloc led by china and russia, as well as the rivalries within the eurozone between germany, france and italy, are being signaled against the backdrop of energy economic problems. the mutual threats to use nuclear weapons, the sabotage of pipelines and critical infrastructure lead to incalculable consequences for the peoples of russia and ukraine, but also of the whole world, which already pays the price of the precision of energy poverty. in these circumstances it is urgent that greece be freed from the war, from the american-nato plans, which multiply the dangers for our people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today.
mr president, mr vice president, mr rope, mr secretary of state, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. putin's invasion did not come as a bolt of lightning in the air. putin has been preparing for a long time, and propaganda was a big part of his preparation. we must admit that we have not adequately dealt with putin's propaganda and lies, which continues to this day and is extremely dangerous, among other things, because it opens the appetite and the way to others who think and act like putin, like erdogan, who also uses propaganda and lies before and after any illegal and provocative action (casus belli, blue homeland, demilitarization of islands, threats "one night we will come suddenly", hundreds of flights over the aegean islands, questioning international treaties, indifference to international law), and now we have another incident with the libyan oil spill in the mediterranean sea region of greece-azores. and these are always accompanied by erdogan's propaganda against greece; the story of erdogan, who says that greece is the european union's pet child, who arms the islands, who illegally push backs, who drowns refugees in the aegean, who leaves dead children on the island of evros. and this propaganda is being reproduced not only by the enemies of greece, but also by members of the greek opposition, who dare to reproduce it for the benefit of a small party. ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to erdogan's propaganda against greece, let us not forget the hard lesson we learned from putin. because when we tolerate propaganda, the worst is yet to come.
mr president, i would say to vice—president schinas that trade deals are about delivering jobs and investment, but they’re also about setting rules and about promoting our values. the global race for a new era of rules and values is well underway. recent years have seen our drive for free trade agreements stall, and political division over trade and sustainable development chapters have been one of the major reasons. now, having recently achieved a mutually—agreeable solution on trade and sustainable development chapters, we can now focus on making up for lost time. we’re fortunate because the timing is very good to make up for lost time. we’ve survived a pandemic, we are tackling the energy crisis – or at least we’re trying to – and our trade strategy is aimed at future—proofing ourselves in a multipolar world. president von der leyen set out an ambitious agenda in her state of the union address, name checking free trade agreements with chile, with mexico, with new zealand, with australia and with india – and i would also mention indonesia and mercosur. so as the race to shape the new world order gathers pace, free trade agreements will play a key role. our partners see the european union as a beacon of stability, of predictability and opportunity. so with faith in our values, with like—minded teammates and fair rules, we stand a good chance to remain a front runner on the global stage. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – thank you very much for the question. i think that our zero—tolerance policy for child labour trumps anything that has to do with trade, even though trade is about trade and investment and well—being, we have to have red lines. child labour is a red line, and i think that’s why we’ve reflected it very well in our mutually acceptable across political families compromise with respect to trade and sustainable development chapters. i think that being respectful of the conventions is a way to do this. we may have our disagreements as to the enforceability and the extent and the clarity of how this is going to be enforced, but in principle i think that nobody in this house disagrees on this.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the russian invasion of ukraine has caused considerable disruption on world agricultural markets and has caused a major increase in the cost of production in the primary sector throughout the european continent. in my country, greece, the prices paid by farmers to buy products and services for their farms have increased by 25% compared with last year according to the data from elstat. in order to keep european farmers producing, it is essential to ensure affordable prices for agricultural inputs. the national governments are taking measures, but these are not enough and in no way can they work in the long term. for example, in crete right now, the prices of fertilizers for olive trees are already more than double and almost triple compared to last year. it is often thought that the use of fertilisers, along with the pollution they cause, and crop yields are an inevitable trade-off. but international studies have shown that it is possible to increase crop yields while reducing the environmental impact of the unwise use of fertilizers. we therefore call on the commission to take immediate action to tackle the cost of inputs, while supporting farmers in the transition to natural methods, and to promote a sustainable agri-food system. at the same time, it must finally propose a european strategy for fertilisers. a key focus of this strategy should be balancing yields and the need for nutrient inputs, i.e. the efficiency of nitrogen use. in addition to ensuring supply, we must protect the environment and public health. we have the necessary technological innovations, such as precision farming, and we should never underestimate the role of farmer education in adopting sustainable farming practices. a step in the right direction has already been taken with the recent revision of the legislation on fertilising products, with a view to promoting the use of fertilisers produced from organic or recycled materials. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural statistics are not distorted. finally, i would also like to bring up the international code of conduct for the sustainable use and management of fertilizers, which was adopted by fao in 2019. the code essentially provides a framework and a number of voluntary practices, good practices, that can be adopted in fertiliser management. all of this must be taken into account, mr commissioner, and ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that our farmers have and will have access to the fertilising products they need at competitive prices, while protecting the environment and public health.
on behalf of the special committee on the covid-19 pandemic. – mr president, colleagues, over the last year we have entered a new stage in our pandemic response, from emergency to a more sustainable mode of preparedness and reaction. nevertheless, the number of cases is rising again. having this in mind, we are calling on the eu and the member states to do what is necessary to protect public health in a manner that keeps society and the economy open and resilient. effective and safe vaccines is obviously a significant element in this endeavour and we are keen to hear from the commission on how to address the current vaccine surplus, how we can ensure that the member states with all their different needs and specificities will integrate covid—19 vaccines into the national vaccination programmes, as well as how they can ensure continuity of healthcare delivery with a strong focus on the needs of vulnerable groups. but at a crucial time and again during this pandemic, trust in science is key. policymakers and citizens will need to be mindful of all those actors who will attempt to undermine such trust through disinformation and misinformation about vaccine safety and effectiveness. because this assertion undermines our collective effort against the virus. in this regard, we need an update on the measures the eu has taken against these phenomena and towards improving our preparedness ahead of possible future cases. and of course, we will continue drawing the right lessons on this, but also on other crucial issues such as the role of hera, coordination among member states, the resilience of our supply chains and the one health approach. colleagues, this oral question is primarily an opportunity to remind ourselves that the pandemic is not yet over. we may have been through its toughest part but we need to remain vigilant, and we should absolutely not lose all the resolve gained from our joint response over the past two years. instead, let’s do our best to stop the virus for the benefit of our society and economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 95,4 million european citizens were at risk of poverty or social exclusion in 2021, with women facing an even higher risk; 95.4 million people. it's a relentless pointer that brings us all face to face with a harsh reality. but above all, it must magnify our will and our efforts to put into practice the porto targets for reducing this number by 15 million by 2030, with active employment policies, an adequate minimum wage and a safety net for the most vulnerable. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, in which it called on the member states to take all necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is brought under control.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, commissioner, five years after daphne's murder, we are here again to discuss malta, the rule of law and the safety of journalists. let's be clear, the malta case is going too slow in principle. there are serious issues that we have seen during our visit to malta and, of course, i want to note in advance that the relatives of daphne galizia cannot yet be tried today with lawsuits. this story has to end. but i heard mr weber and he was very strict. so let us be clear here, whether we are going to be more lenient when the government is on the right and somewhat differently to see it if the government is social democratic. the murder of a journalist is a blow to democracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament - and i say this as a former journalist - cannot add water to its wine on matters of democracy. this game of impressions must stop. we will continue until justice is done for all the journalists who have been murdered so far, but also for the brains, for a system of power so that no one dares to speak.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we should thank olaf for confirming what we already knew. but why shouldn't the world know? why is this report hidden and why should the public learn about it through the press? mr leggeri resigned, or we resigned him. in greece mr leggeri was awarded for exactly the same reasons. so there is a contradiction here and i want to make a few points: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of european integration. the commissioner, mr president, has already said that the european parliament is not a political body, but a political body, and that it is not a political body, but a political body. what's happening today is genocide. people are drowning in the aegean, people are drowning in the european sea. and here is the matter of frontex. search and rescue exists in this organization? what exactly does he do when he sees a ship coming from turkey to europe? we drop them in international waters and then what ? so that's the big issue for me. and of course this story must not stop here but go on.
mr president, i welcome this debate today in the interest of serving the truth, but as a greek member of this house, i cannot allow this debate to fuel the campaign launched by turkey, slandering greece over migration in order to overshadow the fact that turkey consciously and systematically weaponises migrants at the eu’s external borders. and i quote turkish foreign minister çavuşoğlu, ‘under the supervision of the eu and with the help of frontex, greece is killing people in the middle of the sea.’ that is a lie. and i quote president erdoğan, ‘greece is turning the aegean sea into a graveyard through illegal pushbacks.’ and, ‘europe and the united nations must stop these atrocities, which are crimes against humanity.’ that is another lie, and it is an even bigger provocation. the truth, dear colleagues, is that turkey is cramming desperate men, women and children into unseaworthy vessels, violently pushing them towards greece, while the greek authorities, with the help of frontex, are saving lives every day. just last friday, as commissioner johansson mentioned, 92 migrants were rescued at the evros river and testified to being abandoned there by the turkish authorities completely naked. yes, completely naked. this, dear colleagues, is the naked truth about turkey weaponising migration. and you must finally face the naked truth, with unity and solidarity, if not for greece’s sake, because you owe it to our european culture, values and humanitarianism.
mr president, commissioner, the european green deal provides for a reduction of at least 90% of emissions by 2050 in the transport sector. the transition to electrification and sustainability has multiple benefits for the climate, the environment and human health. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster. it is also important that they have access to charging stations and that taxis are at the waiting points for passengers, because they travel tens of thousands of kilometres every day. finally, i would like to stress that for the green transition to be successful it must be fair. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of transport services, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the commission's proposals in this area.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, russia's invasion of ukraine, which is now eight months old, is the only active front on european soil. since then, the social and economic consequences, particularly for europe and the wider world, have been and continue to be significant. waves of refugees are coming in their thousands to seek safety in the member states, while the issue of ukraine's exports of grain and raw materials has created problems in the supply chain of the european market. to top it off, the energy crisis is hitting european citizens again, with many of the energy companies profiting from this murky landscape. our government in greece did it: introduced a temporary emergency tax to tax energy companies on the excess profits they make during this crisis and the money collected goes directly to consumers to make them as relieved as possible. we must do this as a whole as europe and we must do it immediately, because the burdens on families and businesses are immediate and constantly increasing.
in writing. for a year now, the problem of punctuality has been brutally affecting all businesses, households and workers, and the european union has been moving awkwardly, without a collective plan, while still debating what measures it should take to deal with this crisis. for a year now we have been calling for institutional action to correct the outdated, distorted model of the european energy market, which has dramatically shown that this crisis is not working in the interests of consumers, households and businesses but in the interests of profiteers. the eu will finally have to decide whether it will act on the principle of solidarity by adopting realistic solutions to deal with a very difficult winter. we are calling for measures with direct impact, such as the creation of a solidarity fund fund, to be funded by a eurobond, to support the immediate response to energy precision in each member state. measures to ensure public control of energy infrastructure, control and regulation of the energy market and structural reform, since the crisis cannot be dealt with by recklessness and greed. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of taxation of excess profits accumulated by energy companies and other multinationals at the expense of european citizens. measures to decouple the wholesale price from natural gas, as the iberian peninsula has done, and to protect vulnerable consumers from power cuts.
mr president, dear commissioner kyriakides, dear colleagues, mental health has been marginalised for a long time. the covid—19 pandemic brought the spotlight to the importance of mental well-being. young people, women, disabled persons and other people are at risk of being disproportionately impacted by mental ill health. we are also less likely to receive tailored mental health support. to that end, a human rights—based european standard on mental health that addresses the socio—economic elements of mental health is imperative to achieve an equitable approach to mental health care. how will the european commission assure that different communities, including vulnerable groups, are centralised in this work? moreover, decentralisation is a key priority in reforming mental health systems. there is still a substantial number of persons with psychosocial impairments living in institutions across europe and lacking community—based services. this new european initiative should boost the decentralisation process towards the implementation of community—based services.
mr president, commissioner, minister, between 2021 and 2024, the european union will allocate over eur 1 billion in funding to the palestinian authority. fine, yet a proposal to condition just eur 20 million of that funding is refused over and over by this house. i am referring, honourable colleagues, to the initiative which seeks to remove anti-semitic references and incitement to violence propagated in the textbooks of palestinian children. the eu is very clear that it has a zero-tolerance approach to anti-semitism, and i would like to think that this is an approach that we all share. the georg eckert institute study is clear that palestinian textbooks do in fact contain anti-semitic references. so i ask you, colleagues: why is it that a majority of this house refuses to condition eur 20 million of the eur 1 billion funding for the palestinian authority on removing the anti-semitic references from the textbooks of palestinian children? it is utterly perplexing that we failed to take this action. funding conditionality is a routine feature of eu programmes. we condition commitments on a host of indicators from gender-mainstreaming to sustainability. so why is funding conditioning to fight anti-semitism resisted so heavily? this is a question i put to colleagues ahead of the vote on the budget, and it is a question that i will continue to put in the times to come.
on behalf of the the left group. – mr president, dear colleagues, cops are always about emissions. however, this one is really about justice. as antónio guterres explained, today it is pakistan. tomorrow it could be any country. in fact, already today we experience a climate disaster every day on the planet, and this is only going to get worse as global emissions keep actually rising. these disasters of our own making fall on those least responsible and those least able to shelter and recover. yet the council has so far failed to heed our call for the creation of a new loss and damage finance facility. tens of countries in the global south are bonded into unsustainable debt to us and are thus unable to tackle these climate disasters, leading to extreme poverty and lethal instability. these, colleagues, cannot be good, neither for our garden nor for our souls. we call for the eu to lead the world in pushing for a new global financial architecture beyond the washington consensus, mobilising trillions in new and additional public finance to provide adequate action on mitigation, adaptation and loss endowments. from new special drawing rights and debt relief for climate action to the bridgetown agenda and a broader reform of the bretton woods institutions, including the world bank and the imf, multiple ideas are already being discussed and costed. this is the time to reckon with the white man’s burden and the crimes of our colonial past and save the world and ourselves while doing it. anything less would only damage the eu’s global diplomatic standing and also would delegitimise the core process itself.
on behalf of the left group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the title is "missing: wanted or unwanted?" i would like to add that, in the case of refugees alone, since 2014 the number of people missing in the mediterranean has reached 25 000, most of them children. in greece, a few days ago we had another shipwreck in kythira; we will add another 15 people. and here i have to ask: why did the research on these people stop? no one looking for them? when we first raised the issue of missing persons, even before the pandemic, families of missing people told us that they were desperately searching for their people from police station to police station and from cemetery to cemetery, without a common database and without the ability to communicate information. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. interview #32 a brother talks about his sister from syria: yes, i need to know where my sister's body is. now i can find it on google maps and visit it occasionally. this, i confess, was a dimension i had not imagined. we therefore call for the establishment of a european mechanism based on a common database, accessible to the authorities of all countries, which will be able to provide the necessary information to european citizens or to refugees and migrants or to those who are looking for their people. to illuminate what we call the last right.
madam president, the forthcoming summit of european leaders must finally come up with bold solutions. the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the union. the commission's report yesterday is welcome in this respect. but we are too late. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy. we have, however, allowed a very long time to pass and we have already reached winter without having taken any measures. imagine how many deaths we would have had if we had been so late with vaccines and the pandemic. we must therefore move very quickly and it must be understood at the summit that there is no other way. we must find solutions yesterday to relieve the european citizen this winter. the union must reaffirm its role against national and selfish interests and put into practice the european solidarity which the european citizen expects.
mr president, i was listening to the representatives of the european people's party and the title 'my lovely washing machine' came to me. i mean, like you don't understand what happened in sweden, like you don't understand what's happening in italy. mussolini's friends have come to the point and you agree to this. the far right is treated in a way that is, i would say, exceptionally apolitical, both as a narrative and as a practice, with your unhistorical approach and, of course, with this logic of revising and revising history. my country had 600,000 dead from the nazis and the fascists. who do you wash here? i want to tell you that the right has always invested and still invests in creating internal enemies. it criminalizes poverty, it criminalizes being different, it criminalized jews then, it criminalized right-wing extremists and fascists, and today it criminalizes anything that creates a problem in their narrative. the experience of 1935 should not leave us in any doubt as to what is really happening. we can't make the same mistakes. we must show no tolerance for fascism, for the far right ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
on behalf of the left group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in europe, one in three women has been the victim of physical and sexual violence and one in twenty has been the victim of rape. in greece alone, 300 children have been sexually abused and 19 women have been murdered in the last eight months. the figures are shocking, but the actual number is much higher, as women, either out of fear, shame or lack of confidence in the authorities, do not report their nightmares. abusers, rapists and pedophiles find their way into the gaps in parental and social care, the poverty, inequalities and patriarchal attitudes that still prevail in europe today. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include women's rights, including the right to vote, to have their children and to have their rights respected. commissioner, the court of justice of the european union in october 2021 advised that even if not all member states have ratified the istanbul convention, the european union can and must ratify it immediately.
mr president europe is in a difficult economic situation. the skyrocketing energy prices are driving inflation across europe, so let's not introduce any more eu measures, sanctions, that will make the situation worse and threaten to make less energy available. it should be taken into account that the exposure and the possibilities of each member state are different, and therefore the council's agreement that the possible introduction of the gas cap should not jeopardise gas supply contracts is acceptable. energy sanctions, whether they are current or new, instead of ending the war, could slowly destroy europe's economy. we hungarians have been condemning the russian military aggression since the war started and supporting ukraine and ukrainian refugees. today, 33 years after the fall of the berlin wall, europe is still not united. member states, including poland and hungary, are differentiated for ideological reasons, for example in terms of access to financial funds. hungary shall comply with its obligations undertaken in a constructive manner. we hope that the commission will now comply. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by a greeting card)
a withdrawal based on a blue card lift. i don't know if you're available to hear the interpretation. i would like to ask you a question that relates to the situation in hungary. we visited hungary last week with a delegation from the cult committee. we've registered a campaign that talks about brussels sanctions ruining hungary. you think that's a sanction? or is it russian aggression in ukraine? i am very sorry that cause and effect are being confused here.
it's a two-card answer. thank you for asking. well, hungary is a country where, when questions arise that affect people's daily lives and practically the entire hungarian economy, we ask people for their opinions. it's the national consultation, as we call it back home. it's about us being curious about what hungarian citizens think about energy sanctions. i think this could be done in many countries, in the member states of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is almost a year since putin attacked ukraine in a reprehensible way. and it has not succeeded in implementing peace-building measures here during this year, but the call for heavy weapons and money to ukraine has been heard by the eu, and this conflict has been fuelled. i think that's the wrong way to go. today, even the us administration, in the person of us president joe biden, is calling for peace talks loudly and publicly. i also do not understand why the ukrainian side, zelensky, is reacting by saying that it does not want these peace talks to take place, and on the other hand is demanding that the european union pump 2 billion euros a year into ukraine and that the costs of 750 billion euros of reconstruction aid for ukraine be provided by the european side. i appeal to the eu decision-makers to force peace here, to bring people to the table and to guarantee that people in europe can go to peace, can go to a winter here where energy prices do not explode and the european currency also finds stability again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the last council ended with lights and shadows. well, the continuation of financial, military and humanitarian support to ukraine. it is a pity that we have once again postponed making clear choices on energy, and this shows that the european union is once again too slow and divided in its response to crises. families and businesses expected and still expect decisive answers, which, however, have been postponed once again by the attitude of some member states. the toolbox is known: decoupling and dynamic cap on the gas price; alternative quotation system to ttf; diversification of supplies; agreements with allied countries so that no one gets unduly rich in the crisis; the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a common financial instrument to protect the internal market from distortions. i would add to this the increase in national production of gas and renewable energy sources and also, why not, a pause to reflect on the ecological transition, which we are imposing on ourselves in stages with the risk of surrendering to new strategic dependencies. we need bold proposals and definitive answers now to prevent speculation from driving up prices again and affecting our families and businesses.
due to other commitments, president michel has to leave now, so i would like to give him the floor so that he can comment on the interventions made so far.
president of the european council. mr president, i would like to thank all the members who have spoken in this debate and who have shared their convictions with us. today i would like to comment on a few points. firstly, it is the kremlin that has decided to launch an absolutely odious war against the ukrainian people, who are suffering under the bullets, who are suffering under the missiles, and who are courageously resisting with our support. it is also the kremlin which, in parallel, has decided to launch both an energy aggression against the european union and an aggression against food security, mainly in developing countries and the most vulnerable. our responsibility, since this aggression is hurting our families, our businesses, our collective responsibility, at european level, at national level, is to resist, to stand up and take the necessary measures to thwart this attempt to divide and impoverish us. this is the challenge we face today. you know, and we know, that there can be differences of opinion - that is the democratic debate. the energy issue is also a climate issue it is well measured and not discovered today and we are committed to a climate transition, whose foundations are being undermined by this aggression three years ago, we had developed our goal of climate neutrality. this energy issue is also a matter of competitiveness for our companies, and therefore of prosperity and robustness for the internal market, and of the ability of our union to be robust, solid and to move towards a project of progress, peace, stability, security and protection of the dignity of our fellow citizens. but it is also a subject - and this was very well said by valérie hayer - of sovereignty, of strategic autonomy. this was the meaning of the versailles summit a few months ago, when we identified three key points: energy - the importance of which is clear - security and defence, and the technological base. three key points to strengthen our capacity for sovereignty and strategic autonomy. it is good, it is necessary - as was said in the european council - to act on state aid. it is essential, as we can see. it is just as good and necessary to act for permits and licenses. we need to accelerate investments in renewable energy to become independent faster. but we need legislative proposals. there is a decision that was taken on the principle of 'nine concrete measures', there is a mandate that was given three weeks ago by the european council: we need legislative proposals. you are, of course, entitled to criticise the energy ministers for not acting fast enough, but in order for them to act and take decisions, we need legislative proposals to put into effect this ambitious package of measures, for which political decisions of principle have been expressed by the members of the european council, who, contrary to what has been said, have forged their unity around it. because i believe that even if we are shaken, we have the capacity to resist, we have the capacity to change the course of events to guarantee supply and to reverse this threat to prices which is hurting us, our citizens, our families and the european project. finally, i would like to share with you another conviction: we have two levers in our hands. first, the debate on the types of prices (price caps, price corridors, etc.) and the question of the link between gas and the electricity market is a subject that needs to be addressed quickly. but there is another subject - i have said it before and i will say it again - and that is the negotiation with those who supply us with energy resources. we also have levers here which, it seems to me, need to be activated more quickly. i conclude, because this lesson shook us a lot, also with covid-19, which was a brutal crisis, which shocked us, shocked us, shocked the world as a whole. this covid-19 crisis - and i think many people are now recognising this - has been an opportunity for the european union to show its sovereignty, its strategic autonomy and its capacity to act to reverse such a threat. why is that? because we have been able, during this crisis, to show unity, solidarity and speed. we need to show unity, solidarity and speed, even more speed, in the midst of the energy crisis. too little, too late can't be an option.
mr president, the traditional celebrations and empty declarations of solidarity after each summit cannot hide the fierce competition within the european union. germany, france, italy, spain and other countries are competing on prices, infrastructure, pipelines, storage and energy efficiency. at the same time, the people are making countless sacrifices, paying for the profits of the green groups and the sanctions in the energy war with russia. the problems of the people, however, predate the imperialist war, having been born of the strategies of green transition and energy liberalisation that the european union, governments and political parties have established to be treasured by business groups. energy poverty vouchers and the various baskets do not address the unbearable precision in electricity, fuel, food. the people in greece, belgium, france and spain are leaving behind false expectations of the european union, are opposing the strategy of precision and impoverishment, are rejecting the waiting attitude and are today demanding wage increases, collective labour agreements, cheap energy, the abolition of taxes. no house of the people should be left without electricity!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in an extraordinary time, which requires extraordinary measures, and it is impossible to leave citizens, businesses, farmers in uncertainty before the winter in rising inflation. they expect a european solution and the european council has agreed. it agreed on measures to combat high energy prices. i welcome the proposed measures. i think that is also a good job of the czech presidency. but now it is time to put this agreement into practice. and the president of the european council, charles michel, said he was waiting for a concrete proposal from the commission. it is a proposal that would allow the price of gas, which is used to generate electricity, to be capped. the information we have indicates that the european commission is hesitating, or not intending to make this proposal. i would ask the commission representative what he thinks of the council's agreement. thank you in advance for your answer.
mr. chairman, i'm not sure i understand. we wonder whether the council's approach to tackling the energy crisis is in line with citizens' expectations. i have to say, not quite, because, first of all, they are late, they are not enough. the council and the commission should have taken care of security of supply much earlier. how is it that only now have the council and the commission discovered the cost of our energy sector's dependence on russia? you really couldn't have seen this coming? these hundreds or thousands of very smart officials couldn't have foreseen this? secondly, the proposed measures, for example to reduce prices, especially gas prices, are implemented very resistantly. but thirdly, citizens are not just asking for emergency measures, but for a rethinking and reformulation of our entire climate and energy policy. we must ask ourselves whether, in the current geopolitical situation, in the face of a war that will last a long time and may spread to the territory of the union, the objectives set for 2030 are achievable and at what cost, and by whom, are we socially prepared to accept their achievement.
mr president, citizens are becoming increasingly concerned about the impact of energy prices on their lives, and it does not seem that the european council's agreements will be able to reassure them. general strikes took place today in belgium and greece, and others will take place tomorrow in france. european citizens have embarked on a long journey towards impoverishment. the data confirms it. for example, in catalonia, in 2019, the cost of energy represented 4% of gdp. by 2022, this cost will rise to 16%, or 12 percentage points. but the eu institutions are not in a position to ensure that some countries, such as spain, make the most of the significant aid they receive from europe. and this should also be on the agenda of the next european council, because we cannot afford to mobilise billions of euros and do nothing when there is such structural inefficiency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must stress that we have a president of the european commission, mrs von der leyen, who is supportive, competent and proactive, in contrast to the governments we have, as we can see from the timid conclusions of the european council. we must have strategic autonomy, but that cannot be done with rulers who only look at their navel, with national egotism. and that is why it is necessary, and i ask the commission to make progress towards defining the crossborder projects and interconnections necessary so that a country like portugal is not harmed by the selfishness of a ruler, of which mr macron is an example. in addition, the commission must also do its work on what the relationship with china should be, which cannot be bilateral, but a relationship in which the whole european union is involved. and from this point of view i also regard chancellor scholz's position in this area as negative. and then the council has to do its job. there is a further eur 100 billion of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework that is not being used. prr has a lousy execution. the rulers have plenty of money at their disposal. you should use it to help families and businesses through this difficult time.
mr president, i would like to say good evening to president charles michel. it is not, as the council and his majesty have been absent throughout this period of energy crisis. good evening, mr vice president šefčovič. i would like to thank you for your kind words. i know that you are the one who really cares about what is happening in the energy sector and i would like to send you, and through you to the commission, a message. we have been agreeing for a year on all the measures that the council announces every month and which are never taken. we agree to have a common gas purchase platform, so we can have a lower gas price. we agree. we agree and we want there to be a cap on gas prices. we do not agree that national budgets should continue to compensate the profits of companies involved in so-called energy transactions. we do not agree that there should be a level of bills that we see today and that every european citizen has to pay. companies have to pay them and they go bankrupt, people lose their jobs and this situation has become unacceptable. and we also disagree with one other thing, mr vice-president šefčovič, and please tell mrs ursula von der leyen that transparency in energy transactions must be mandatory. we want to know who's making these profits based on some speculation that we're all seeing. where do these profits go and why do we all have to pay these speculative prices? and, above all, why is no action taken today, a year after we asked for these measures? (the speaker agreed to reply to a 'blue card' intervention)
response to the 'blue card' intervention. thank you for asking. next, tonight, we have the debate on repowereu. in two weeks we have the red iv vote. what we're all saying is this: we're starting these renewable energy projects, because there are a lot of investments that are privately funded and private. there's a lot of investment, 20 billion in repowereu, including renewables. there are investments in national recovery and resilience plans that we need to get going. but do you know how long a project in the european union of renewables, solar panels or wind power takes? seven years of it. that's why, starting today, we're starting this campaign. down with all the administrative barriers, all the administrative approvals that actually prevent the installation of any renewable energy. we need these cheap energies. i'm not the only solution. it has to go along with the storage, storage, storage and construction of power transmission lines so that we can make all these systems functional. that is a serious approach and that is the position of my political group.
mr president, the impoverished greek people have recently seen their incomes shrink even further because of inflation. in this difficult situation, it was decided to stop the purchase of cheap russian gas because russia is attacking ukraine. but seeing that this gas is being replaced by azeri gas, i would like to ask you, regarding azerbaijan attacking armenia, why is not the slightest thing done? sanctions are also imposed on iran for selling offensive weapons to russia. let us assume that we agree with this decision. in turkey, which has been selling bayraktar to the azeris for so long, who are using it to murder armenian civilians, why are there no sanctions? we therefore call for an immediate end to this policy of selective humanism. we call for the immediate imposition of sanctions on turkey.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly pleased that this report not only shows that parliament is driving the change, but above all that it recognises the extraordinary potential of this ecosystem as a part of the creative and cultural industries, and the benefits we can derive from using it in our education systems to develop the necessary digital skills. for these very reasons, we need a coherent european strategy to highlight and multiply the added value of this sector, with adequate funding, from programmes such as creative europe, to support creators and enable them to compete with global giants on equal terms, but also with a special emphasis on the need for accessibility for people with disabilities, given the extraordinary potential of video games for socialisation and participation in society.
mr president, after the pega committee's visit to athens, we would like to point out that the eavesdropping scandal is becoming more and more serious. the events confirm the kke's position that a methodical operation is under way to conceal the truth about the difficult eu legislative framework that all governments and bourgeois parties have co-designed. this framework allows for the mass surveillance of everything and every kind of file by states and monopolies. the whole confrontation between new democracy, syriza, pasok-kinal and the respective european political groups is being conducted through the settling of accounts of business interests and leaves this legislative framework untouched. the announcements by the greek prime minister to ban the software prescribe another fraud operation, since then it will be legalized again, but with conditions. the kke has revealed and will continue to reveal the truth to the people. the reactionary framework of european union, state and governments that shields the dictatorship of capital is not being corrected, only overturned by popular intervention and action itself.
mr president, we were disappointed to see the european union remain silent when the turkish authorities, in a completely abusive manner, detained and banned the regional governor of central macedonia, apostle djizikos, from entering izmir last saturday. this is unacceptable, since he is not only a greek politician but also a european official as first vice-president of the committee of the regions. i would like to ask the following question: how long will the european union keep silent about such unacceptable actions by turkey? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i therefore call on the european union to use all the means at its disposal to defend its interests and those of its member states against the ever-increasing turkish provocation.
mr president, greece does not make concessions on the rule of law. the honour and reputation of the greek people, and of the democratically elected prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis, is not negotiable and will be safeguarded as the apple of our eye. the greek government does not use malware, has strengthened the legal framework for privacy, has institutionally and fully investigated the legal attachment of mr. androulakis' mobile phone, and is again taking the lead in europe by banning the use of malware in greece. we will not allow those who speculate on greece for petty party reasons and for personal promotion, those who are enemies of greece, wherever they are, those who serve dark agendas, those who poison the public life of greece with toxicity, to slander greece without proof and evidence. and obviously we will not tolerate the totally unfounded propaganda of a greek media outlet whose publisher is linked to the financing in greece of a television network with russian funds. in order to understand each other, ladies and gentlemen, hands off greece.
madam president, nextgenerationeu, like the european recovery fund, is a super-memo. he's been funneling cash into renewable energy and digital technology groups and mortgaging workers' incomes for decades. the european union's bourgeois governments, however, are not happy with the distribution. there are fierce debates about the repayment of the programme's loans against the backdrop of the imperialist war in ukraine and its effects on the emerging capitalist crisis. so you're proposing the so-called bond purchase by the people as a solution. you basically cover banks, groups and funds to speculate on the backs of workers who you burden with the burden of debt, new taxes, own resources, over inflation, punctuality, energy costs, and they can't keep up. the people must not compromise with barbarism to pay for the capitalist profits of competing states and groups. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
madam president, will those who blamed greece for the rescue of 92 migrants by the greek authorities on evros apologise now that the media outlet which published the report has withdrawn it because of its doubts? will those who slandered the prosecutors in the alleged novartis scandal apologize, who have been fully exonerated now that even mr. tsipras's lawyer says they were all innocent from the start? it is they who, for the european problem of the use of illegal and malicious software, adopt and reproduce unfounded accusations against greece. so those who are trying to drag greece into the mire of mud and toxicity, know that we are not wasting time waiting for their apology. the mitsotakis government has said "everything is clear" from the beginning and has cooperated fully with the european institutions, with the pega committee, and is leading the way across europe with a bill that prohibits and criminalizes the possession, use and sale of illegal surveillance software. greece, ladies and gentlemen, is not only not lagging behind, but is taking the lead in protecting human rights and the rule of law.
madam president, ten years after the commission's original proposal, the european union is adopting the directive on women on boards, taking a significant step towards ending the under-representation of women on the boards of major european companies. we are proud of the outcome of the negotiations with the council and the european commission. i would like to congratulate my fellow rapporteurs in the european parliament and i am proud that i was able to contribute to the european parliament's negotiating team in reaching this agreement. although official european data show that european companies that ensure a high representation of both sexes on their boards perform better, women are still today a clear minority, representing only 34% of non-executive board members in the european union. women are entitled to equal opportunities for advancement in company leadership. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in keeping with the principles of the treaty. it is not just a question of social justice, but a prerequisite for the european union to achieve the economic growth it so badly needs. we expect the new directive to reverse these structural inequalities, bringing more women into the decision-making centres for the benefit not only of european businesses, but of society and the economy as a whole.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner, i believe the enlargement process should be accelerated. this is crucial as the loss of credibility of the european union in the western balkans threatens to increase foreign influence in europe, notably given russia’s and china’s interest in the region. in addition, our enlargement policy has become strategically crucial in the face of russia’s aggression against ukraine and destabilising actions of non-eu actors, including russia, in candidate countries. in this context, i welcome the commission’s annual enlargement package presented in october. i also welcome the acknowledgement in mr picula’s report of the need for the european union to enhance credibility, effectiveness and predictability of its enlargement policy. full alignment with the common foreign and security policy, including sanctions policy, should be considered a priority and should be applied to individual candidates on an equal basis. i believe that in a world of fragile alliances, this enlargement could be a further guarantee of proper development, stability and peace on our continent.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, it is very positive that almost all the groups are in favour of enlargement, as the rapporteur proposes. there is an exception of the far-right imperialists - they are not here, they have left - but the rest of us agree that we must proceed with the copenhagen criteria firmly in hand and with a renewed willingness to enlarge. and we must, in this endeavour, overcome nationalism and national egos and move forward together. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external relations are not affected by the crisis in the former yugoslavia, and i would like to say that the commission is aware of the fact that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not yet as bad as it was in the former yugoslavia. please ask to go ahead and bring them up for a vote.
madam president, officer, i have to go. the threats to peace in europe highlight the geopolitical importance of enlargement. the union cannot delay the strategic enlargement process in the western balkans any further. you have to offer a credible alternative that is both an opportunity and a responsibility. the region has also become a key region for europe in terms of long-term energy security and migration crises. the western balkans route is a worsening of the illegal migration crisis, which can be resolved by integrating the region and its key player, serbia. the serbian-austrian-hungarian declaration of intent on the return of illegal migrants at the external borders, signed last week in belgrade, is therefore welcome. in this report, the politicized tightening of the conditionality regime sends the wrong message, destabilising, for example, serbia, which is waiting to join. however, we cannot accept the proposal to abolish the unanimity procedure, since majority decisions would seriously jeopardise the political sovereignty of the smaller member states. especially in foreign policy decisions.
madam president, the european union must redouble or triple its efforts to bring the western balkan countries into the union, especially in the current geopolitical environment. this should be one of our top priorities. i will, however, focus on serbia specifically, because its policies have an influence in many countries of the former yugoslavia. it is in the interest of both serbian citizens and the european union that this country should become part of the european union as soon as possible. however, when we take into account all the elements of our policy, including with regard to russia, unfortunately at this moment serbia is acting in support of russian interests in the balkans. this has a very negative impact on the neighbouring countries. it is sad that north macedonia still does not take action regarding hate speech and discrimination against citizens who identify as bulgarians. the shameful act of a few days ago when a club of the bulgarian community was attacked should be condemned by the political class of this country and it should make efforts to prevent it from happening again. mr pizzolla, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a bilateral issue, but a basic democratic value which is not a given and which must be defended every day both in the european union and in the countries which wish to join. and here's another question. i've always maintained that in terms of foreign and defence policy, the european union must be flexible and adapt quickly to the geopolitical environment around us. so there has to be a qualified majority for decision-making. but enlargement policy is not foreign policy. when we decide who we're going to be with in a family, it's not foreign policy, and that's why we have to keep unanimous decision-making.
madam president, commissioner, i congratulate mr pizzula on his attempt to modernise a very important policy of the european union, namely enlargement policy. i think that this policy has the right to be called the most successful foreign policy of the european union, but at the same time it should be taken much more seriously - both as an approach and as an attitude. the commission is doing the right thing by making a very strong argument that the new methodology will make the process much more adequate. it will meet the expectations of the western balkan countries in particular and, at the same time, provide sufficient guarantees that the countries which are already part of the european union will recognise the process as such. it is very important in this crisis, as it was in the pandemic crisis, as it was in the energy crisis, that european citizens are not jealous of the western balkans, but really provide the necessary support, and as the european union in this process, because it is extremely important to feel the support if we want to live in a union that is solidarity not only with its own citizens, but with the countries that have aspired to be part of it.
madam president, just as with previous waves of accession, the french will not be consulted on possible enlargement to the balkans - 59% of them are rightly opposed to it. let us start with the economy, since the minimum wage in albania of 250 euros is the lowest in europe, with the result of unacceptable dumping, for example in the textile sector, which is beginning a timid renaissance in the lands of the far east that are dear to me. in the field of security, a recent europol report recalls the islamist infiltration, which has been aggravated by the return of jihadists. finally, this leakage forward will only reopen wounds that have never been closed. serbia is thus forced, more or less explicitly, to recognise kosovo as a precondition for membership. and from what we hear, the recent proposal from paris and berlin is on the verge of the most unworthy bargaining. we should not therefore be locked into such an unpopular, irresponsible project which could set the balkans on fire again.
the greek minority in northern epirus is being persecuted. houses are seized and churches and cemeteries are demolished. and europe is silent. after the horrible persecutions of hoxha and the unacceptable and even murderous attacks since 1991, we now have legal obstacles for our northerners. let us be frank: the albanian government is a turkish asset. if the same agreements he has made with turkey had been made with russia, we know that nato would have bombed it as it did serbia. the most tragic thing is that the european commission's office in albania finds everything rosy. talk to the northern continent organizations to find out the truth. the road from tirana to brussels must pass through silver castle, corsica and himara. otherwise, let's drop the copenhagen criteria and just talk about the washington line.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, against the backdrop of the diplomatic incident last week, where the foreign minister of the libyan caretaker government tried by her presence at the airport to force her greek counterpart to meet with him, i welcome this report, which clearly states that the turco-olivonian memorandum of 2019 on the delimitation of the maritime areas in the mediterranean violates the sovereign rights of greece and cyprus, does not comply with the law of the sea and has no legal consequences for third states. the report rightly urges the libyan authorities to cancel the turko-livyan memorandum and not to apply any clause of the agreement on hydrocarbons. greece, my dear colleagues, is a pole of stability and security in the mediterranean and respects international law. the interim government of libya not only does not hold elections, but is also taking advantage of its stay, exploiting the country's resources at will and signing with the turks. so, as greek foreign minister nikos dendias eloquently said: "oh, it's not possible".
mr president, once again today we are talking about thousands of lives lost in the mediterranean - for those we know, because there are also thousands of missing people we do not know. and while the criminal attack by turkey on ukraine is raging, a few days ago we had the military attack by turkey on syria. the president-in-office, mrs metsola, spoke of restraint. - who ? turkey, the dead, the missing or the new refugees? so the causes are the first issue. the second is our narrative. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: how legal is that? how fair and how realistic? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's ships is not compromised. as announced by the four ministers? and here's a theme we're not seeing for the first time. the european council in madrid in december last year, in the context of the european council in brussels, called for the european union to take action to combat terrorism and to promote the development of a common foreign and security policy. so we are sure that the right to apply for asylum will not be criminalised in the near future? i think that as long as the union is not relieved of the burden of creating the causes i have mentioned, as long as there are no legal and safe ways for these people to seek asylum and protection, this crime will continue.
mr. president, what else do we need to hear to finally wake up? how many desperate people in search of a human life and a better tomorrow must the greek coast guard rescue from the sea in order to act more effectively? the number that shows the seriousness of this problem has been lost. in my country, greece, just the day before yesterday, another shipwreck occurred off the coast of crete, with some 500 human souls struggling with the waves, victims of the smugglers who are running wild at the european borders, exploiting these people. we have to put an end to this. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the vice-president, mr. string, is right: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in particular, clearly strengthening the protection of our european borders, while at the same time strengthening frontex, whose role, after all, is to guard the borders and not to welcome desperate people who have abandoned their fortunes to smugglers. the european union must therefore reaffirm its solidarity and all countries must play their part without discrimination. this is a humanitarian matter. the first countries of origin cannot bear the full burden of migration and we can talk about it here for so many years without any result. this is a matter that transcends party lines. we have to find solutions. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to prevent it from spreading. that is why we support your view.
madam president, gender-based violence against women and girls is a global scourge. it's a moral insult to all women. it is a sign of shame and failure for all societies and a major obstacle to the development of the european union. one in three women has experienced the nightmare of gender-based violence and one in 20 has been a victim of rape, often without justification, support or protection. at its core, gender-based violence is the manifestation of disrespect, underestimation, devaluation and degradation of women by men who do not recognize their inherent equality and believe that women's lives are not of equal value to their own. it reflects and reproduces patriarchal patterns and stereotypes which still prevail in europe today and which must be eliminated. we must include gender-based violence as a crime in article 83 of the treaty and we must, as a top political and social priority, tackle it at its roots. women and men, yes, they're different, but they're equal. the directive to be adopted should be holistic and ambitious.
madam president, commissioner dalli, colleagues, we speak about equal rights for disabled persons. yet, this is the very first time after my election that i speak in front of you from this rostrum like everyone else in this house. my excitement is so emotionally great, even if you see such a small change. the fact that the place of every disabled person in their society is not equal to the other citizens is obvious in so many ways. this is the reason i welcome this report, particularly the highlighting of the urge to grant the right of legal capacity to every person, the adoption of common terms for independent living, and deinstitutionalisation across the eu, whose lack causes a continuous misinterpretation of the crpd and the misplacement of funding. the collection of common statistical data, the importance of accessible housing, understanding that the involvement of persons with disabilities in political decision—making is not enough unless it is promoted to co—production. by insisting on these issues, the eu would support the implementation of the already existing guidelines towards equal rights, although we have to go through a long distance. in greek, we have the word ‘philanthropy’, which is equal to charity. we don’t want to be ‘philanthropists’ in order to accept that every person is unique and in order to have an inclusive society; we want this individualism.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the suffering and the scenes of shame we saw at many airports this summer with delays and cancellations of flights that affected tourism must not be repeated now or in the future. there is an urgent need to ensure that the ground services at airports are adequately manned and to improve working conditions and wages for all air transport staff, because this is not only a matter of labour rights but also a major safety issue. air connectivity is also a critical issue for remote and isolated areas and island-housing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. the green transition of the industry must also be fair and leave no one behind.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, migration flows from africa and asia are increasing dramatically and are at their highest point since the 2015-2016 period. the first host countries in europe, such as my own country, greece, are again faced with a disproportionate burden due to their geographical location and the very small number of voluntary relocations. this puts increasing pressure on asylum and reception systems and is something that cannot continue. we have to make sure that the european parliament is not the only one to be consulted on this matter. we urgently need a genuine european solution, one based on the principle of solidarity, which will tackle at its root the attempt to exploit human suffering by trafficking rings and, above all, ensure a fair and lasting sharing of responsibility between the member states.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in this report we urge the commission and the member states to ensure that the most marginalised and underrepresented groups are included in cultural activities and initiatives, not only as passive recipients but also as active creators, that is to say on an equal footing. last week i invited a delegation of members of the kosovo human rights committee to berlin - as they asked me to do - to strengthen their human rights standards and to exchange views on effective best practice measures for marginalised groups, especially roma people. our exchange was at eye level. the exchange with the representatives of the german federal government and the ministries also took place at eye level. the state treaty of baden-württemberg with the sinti and roma minority, one of the first in germany and the most effective in the eu, was also of central importance. we also visited the various monuments to minorities in berlin to discuss what forms of culture of remembrance are possible. communication at eye level at all levels is essential. so i am very pleased that we have managed, on the one hand, to make the enormous contribution that art and culture make to the awareness of environmental, climate and sustainability issues and their social dimension also anchored in this report. it is important for culture, especially for those who are often victims of discrimination, such as women, ethnic minorities, people with disabilities and lgbtiq people, to be included and thus to place a strong emphasis on combating hatred and racism in this report as well.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, this resolution is important because we support and underline the catalytic potential of culture across europe's policies and priorities, such as the green and digital transition. of course, this means a single european framework that will guarantee working conditions, a minimum standard of income, social security and rights for all artists and all cultural workers. in our cultural heritage, this resolution restores the foundations for a just and democratic framework, because the preservation and promotion of cultural heritage consists both of the tangible objects that are preserved and rightly should be in the place where they were created and shone, and of the messages and memories that they preserve over time. the cultural heritage and contemporary cultural creation are therefore an integral part of european society. i would like to thank my colleague and rapporteur, mrs salima yenbou, for her excellent cooperation.
mr president, we need a european concept of civilization based on ethics and law. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. this ensures that greek cultural treasures remain in foreign museums. the commission has of course stated that the directive can be applied on a voluntary basis. a feat without conviction, unfortunately. in accordance with article 167 of the treaty, a system of recognition and reward by the commission is required for any state which shows remorse and returns cultural treasures. let us call 2023 the year of cultural justice, with the first step being the apology of the european states to the states that have wronged by stealing their treasures. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all feeling this backstabbing in the common effort, in parliament, in democracy, in the rule of law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. criminal responsibility will be the talk of the court. but we must take political responsibility and that will be reflected in the resolution we shall have tomorrow. we therefore propose the creation of an independent ethics authority for european agencies, with investigative and enforcement powers for all agencies, the strengthening of existing transparency rules, the strengthening of the european transparency register with a mandatory and legally binding nature, a mandatory legislative footprint for meps who prepare reports or opinions, a revised code of conduct with stricter rules for meps and staff, especially for gifts and benefits. let us look at the question of lifting immunity for members of parliament when they are involved in criminal organisations. we already have one in prison, rabbit, for participation in a criminal, nazi organization; is paid properly, as will the defendant. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. let's make some decisions!
mr president, as we see photographs of piles of cash found in the hands of members of our european parliament community, how can citizens not wonder how much money is there that we don’t see? it is really existential, too, for the integrity of our house to immediately and radically reform our governance structure and provide the transparency and accountability that the citizens we represent demand and deserve. and we must start this week – tomorrow, i think – with a resolution that will demonstrate credibly our commitment to take concrete measures, many proposed by previous speakers, to bring our house in order and give us the opportunity to rebuild the trust that is necessary to perform our real duty: to exercise parliamentary scrutiny over the commission and the council, and to resist not only foreign interference, but also domestic interference.
mr president, over time the european union and all the greek governments have increased economic, energy and military cooperation with israel, to the detriment of the palestinian people. this year, the number of victims of israeli occupation violence has exceeded 141. among them are underage girls, young boys, journalists. the atrocities of the israeli army are going around the world. thousands of political prisoners are held in appalling conditions with unacceptable "administrative detention". today's debate once again shows the hypocritical sensitivity of the european union, which is using 'human rights' for the victims of war, occupation and raids; because when these things happen in palestine by the murderous state of israel, the perpetrators are equated with the victims and you keep the same distance. the only solution is to step up solidarity with the palestinian people in recognition of their own sovereign state on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital. we demand that the resolutions on the recognition of the palestinian state adopted by the member states, such as that of the greek parliament since 2015, be implemented.
mr president, madam commissioner, this year has seen multiple clashes between israelis and palestinians. it’s actually been one of the deadliest years in recent memory, and too many innocent civilians, including young children, have paid the ultimate price. terrorist attacks against israel have led to the highest death count since 2008, and this is a sign, perhaps, that the palestinian authority is increasingly losing its control and its credibility. we cannot afford to turn away from this discussion. peace between israel and palestine is not a bilateral issue. it is a regional issue. if we lose sight of that, then we fail to appreciate the many barriers which stand in the way of peace, and to recognise the available paths to peace. this conflict does not exist in a vacuum. we see actors like iran continuing to do all it can to sow division and destruction – a regime which defines itself by its hatred of israel and supports terrorist groups like hezbollah and the palestinian islamic jihad, with the goal of israel’s ultimate destruction. but there is another path, and we see this reflected in other parts of the region – a diplomatic and prosperous path to peace, namely the abraham accords, a process that has seen arabs and israelis traveling to each other’s countries and discussing how they can develop their economies together to prosper – and these are areas where our policy in the region could be more proactive. so, we must get tougher on iran and we must offer more support to champion the outcome of the abraham accords. in doing so, we can help remove barriers and follow the path to genuine and lasting peace.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the bombing of syria and the kurdish region of iraq, mr president, commissioner, is a clear indication that turkish aggression is a european problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of democratization, and that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of democratization. only in the last few months have the statements of the turkish leadership been enough to make one realize that turkey has consciously chosen to act as a troublemaking state. mr erdoğan has made many threats against my country, greece, using repeatedly the line 'we will come at night' from the song of the same name associated with the dark days of the invasion of cyprus. this is just a fragment of the inflammatory rhetoric he expresses at every opportunity, pointing the finger at greece, even on issues such as migration, where it is turkey that is not respecting what has been agreed at european level. the day before yesterday, during the test of the typhoon ballistic missile, he said: 'in greece they say that the missile will hit athens. of course it will if you don't keep your cool. what else are we gonna hear? what ? it seems that as the elections approach, the turkish president's endorsements will increase. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what exactly are we waiting for to respond effectively to the turkish provocation?
on behalf of the left group. mr president, (to commissioner johannes hahn) i did not quite understand this memorandum of cooperation for greece, if you could explain it to us in your second part of the speech, because i did not understand whether greece is a country in the process of accession or a member. let me explain why i say that. what are the steps of transformation from a liberal democracy to an illiberal, gradually authoritarian one? i was a journalist. i've been fired a few times for democracy issues. the scandal of the surveillance in greece, which we brought to the attention of the institutions of this parliament, was the surveillance of a journalist. his name is cucakis, he was investigating the whereabouts of suspicious money. mr. koukakis was considered a national danger because he was journalistically researching the issue of money management; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the greek authorities is not used in the course of the investigation. the second victim, journalist mr mallikoudis, was investigating journalistic issues concerning the refugee; and he was declared a national danger by the office of the prime minister. if i keep going over names, i won't have time. journalists who exposed the lagarde list and the novartis case were brought to justice, poisoned, labeled by the greek prime minister as "a gang", tortured, acquitted. there is a stalemate with no official information. you said the investigation was moving forward. commissioner, you know what? because we don't know anything about being in greece. i'm talking about the karaivas case. the president of the court has changed, i hear, in a greek mafia case. judges are leaving greece, prosecutors are moving. with the coronavirus, we had lists of sponsors, friends, media. slapps are an industry in this country. when mr. mitsotakis is asked about the 108th place in freedom of the press, he disparages the institutions and says "where did you get these?" in greece, everyone can say what they want, it's not a dictatorship, the point is that the journalist cannot find a voice in the press oligopolies and that's a problem.
madam president, commissioner, press issues are also rule of law issues and we deal with them as such in my country, greece. so stop slandering greece, which from the very beginning welcomed the european act on freedom of the media, a landmark initiative for the european union. we therefore actively participate in the fruitful dialogue which will crystallize a single, unchanging framework that will strengthen freedom of the press and strengthen democracy. today it is greece that has taken initiatives and actions to ensure the protection, security, freedom and strengthening of the journalistic function, and this through a task force that coordinates the action of the state and professionals in the field, defends their interests and is in good cooperation with the european authorities and the competent commissioner. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the media is not distorted. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. greece is a democratic country for all, citizens and journalists, and it proves this in practice, without exceptions, without shadows, without asterisks, by establishing institutional guarantees. the press is characterized by credibility and pluralism, while enjoying the freedom required to ensure that the citizen is informed in a valid and objective manner, because that is what is required.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for some time now, mainly because of the report by the ngo reporters without borders, a concerted effort has been made to discredit greece. for anyone who knows the situation in my country, to be ranked 108th, even under dictatorial regimes, can only cause laughter. that's why we have to say it categorically: there is no question of freedom of the press in greece. everyone has the right to publish whatever they want, and this is evidenced by the abundance of critical and, in many cases, defamatory articles against the government. on the contrary, we must realize that a coordinated communication war is being waged against greece, with the dissemination of false news and disinformation, which is not only uncritically adopted by some but also does not have the ethics to apologize when their writings are refuted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of the multiannual financial framework, two events with major consequences, the pandemic and the totally unjustified russian invasion of ukraine, have radically changed our lives. at the time of the 'permacrise', the multiannual financial framework is not suited to its objectives and does not allow the state to ensure the green and digital transition. faced with a multipolar world, we need to strengthen the eu's strategic autonomy and finance our new political ambitions, such as the legislative package on semiconductors or the recovery and resilience facility. to date, we have had to use money from key areas of the european budget, such as the solidarity and emergency aid reserve or the common agricultural policy. paralysing these areas will have a problematic effect on our citizens and on the union as a whole. the budget needs new resources to cope with the new crises. this means an ambitious review of the mff and new own resources. we are too late to continue as if nothing had happened. we need a stronger, more resilient and more flexible european budget, able to cope with past, present and future crises.
madam president, the historical facts are not in dispute. the so-called genocide of the adopted ukrainian people was a well-crafted nazi slander that was subsequently disseminated by pro-nazi media moguls like hearst and fascist gangs like bandera's. in ukraine, in russia, in 1930-1932, there was indeed a drought, there was a famine, typhus. but you hide the fact that the big capitalist farmers sabotaged the harvest, the warehouses, the machinery, murdered officials of the socialist state, aggravating the problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you equate capitalist russia, its unacceptable invasion of ukraine, with the soviet union. you use misery, you escalate anti-communist legislative abortions, as in poland, while together, euro-atlanticists and russia, you adopt these myths, despite the imperialist slaughterhouse in ukraine. capitalist barbarity cannot be fabricated by distortions and lies. the truth will shine, the popular conquests of socialism are a beacon lighting the way to a world without exploitation, crises, wars and refugees.
