dear president, dear colleagues, dear citizens of the european union, president macron, in view of the numerous abolishments and restrictions of civil rights and freedoms in france during the pandemic, i ask you only one thing, and that is that while you are president of the european union, you do the exact opposite of everything that you have done in france. on the other hand, today you said you were proud that there is no death penalty in europe. tens of thousands of citizens have died from the effects of the vaccine. mandatory vaccination is a death sentence and a death sentence for many citizens. it must remain the choice of every citizen. murder is murder. for those of you who don't know, and haven't been educated, you have the official website of the european health organization.
mr president, commissioners, colleagues, the sale of dangerous products such as untested medicines, counterfeit products, but also the dissemination of illegal content such as that which infringes intellectual property rights, terrorist content or illegal hate speech is a reality that we face every day on the internet. despite this, online sales have been steadily increasing in recent years, and in 2020, at the height of the pandemic, 71% of consumers shopped online. at the same time, it is estimated that 7% of european imports are wasted on counterfeit goods. in such circumstances, we need to increase the level of consumer safety by establishing clear rules on the removal of illegal content from online platforms. the digital services act will ensure a high level of protection for all european consumers, the highest in the world, and prevent the arbitrariness of large multinational companies. consumers often complain that when they buy through an intermediary like ebay or amazon, they don't know exactly who they're buying from. this legislation requires intermediaries to thoroughly vet traders before offering their products and services. furthermore, in addition to raising the level of consumer protection, we want to enable businesses to find new customers online, but not at the expense of the safety of minors. that is why we have prohibited targeted advertising to this category of consumers. finally, i would like to point out that the dissemination of misinformation, especially about vaccination, has unfortunately become a weapon in the hands of irresponsible and malicious people. the spread of fakenews endangers the lives and health of people and this act creates a legal mechanism to combat such behavior. on the other hand, the possibility of censoring content must not be left in any way and in this sense this act represents the right balance. in the age of ubiquitous digitization, it's time to make what's illegal outside the internet illegal on the internet with new rules on digital services.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the widespread digitalisation of business and social life is certainly opening up new possibilities, but it is also opening up a whole range of social and legal issues that have been largely ignored until now. how to regulate digital services, platform abuse, illegal content, algorithms that recommend content or targeted advertising? the priority of the digital transformation must be the protection of the rights of european citizens and consumers, as well as legal certainty. the digital services act is one of the key instruments in this context. we are facing the biggest attempt to modernise european policy in the digital world. the network should thus be more secure and the platforms operating in the common market should have greater legal certainty. the regulation makes it more effective to remove illegal content on networks and to prevent the spread of harmful content, but without censorship, which will ensure a better user experience and the protection of the most vulnerable. personalised advertising, which is important for thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in their day-to-day business, will not be banned but reinforced by additional transparency requirements. it is equally important that we have exemptions for micro and small enterprises because this is a way to ease the regulatory and administrative burden on those who do not pose a serious risk to the security of the digital world. it's clear that these rules will not solve all the challenges that the new digital age poses to us but it's also clear that we are sending a clear message that everything that is illegal in the analog world is also illegal (interruption).... not for film thin collegiate said heart rate's a few miles a minute. the state of secondary schools and the setting up of a marijane dujić package of services from which it was filmed is one of the most important and range of genre films nikše parliament europe same regulation of taxi drivers duje ship corrosion. perfect master when you've tried both foreign and someone he'll be here without interference from gender and the internet of things. i hope the descriptions america europe drink ltd global eros harvest and the pretensions catalog wealth in our internet already there no goodbye but the smell of candles afar in the pit everywhere on one face. europe is sparking with this context our commitment to establish a solution for the airline at least charge platforms with the internet. the iss is not frozen there but at dawn about to be spotted.
dear chairman, commissioner, colleagues, colleagues, we have recently witnessed the protests that erupted in kazakhstan after the government significantly increased gas prices earlier this year. much is still unclear, but we do know that the protests began in the western part of the country and that the discontent of the citizens soon spread to the rest of the country and grew into a general protest against corruption, poverty and inequality. the demonstrations then escalated into riots and armed clashes, and a number of human rights violations were reported. until these protests, oil-rich kazakhstan, one of the world's largest countries, was considered by many to be the most stable country in a volatile region. of the five central asian countries that gained independence after the collapse of the soviet union, kazakhstan is by far the largest and richest. it is the size of western europe and is situated on vast reserves of oil, natural gas, precious metals, and is the world's largest producer of uranium. the escalation of discontent and the resulting crisis have drawn particular attention from kazakhstan's two powerful neighbors, russia and china. the country places most of its oil exports in china and is traditionally firmly in russia's geopolitical sphere of interest. after days of protests and near-war on the streets of many cities in kazakhstan, the regime has slowly regained control with the help of the collective security treaty organization, which sent in military forces made up mostly of the russian military. russia has thus shown itself to be the strongest partner of the current government in preventing the outbreak of any revolution that could threaten the current government. consequently, the current or any future government in that country will become even more dependent on the kremlin. this shows that moscow still considers the former soviet union as its own backyard. we must be aware of this and not underestimate its power.
thank you, vice president and vice president jourová, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. in poland, another law is being debated these days, one that will have negative consequences for the exercise of sexual and reproductive rights, and which aims to deny access to sex education and training. on the contrary, there are brave polish women who, despite intimidation, violence and harassment, managed to collect more than 100,000 signatures for an initiative that would allow abortion up to 12 weeks. unfortunately, poland is not the only country to be troubled by this issue. there's malta, slovakia, hungary, and some other members. while she is not here at the moment, i take this opportunity to remind our president, regardless of all that she stood for before she was elected to this high office, that it remains her duty to defend every document that has come out of this house. it is of the utmost importance that it clearly and loudly defends those who are dealing with sexual and reproductive health because it is a fundamental human right and because denying access to health services in this area is gender-based violence. president macron was very clear and direct about this yesterday and we will follow with great attention his proposal to add the right to safe abortion to the charter of fundamental human rights.
president of the council. mr president, mr pîslaru and your colleagues from the employment committee, i would like to thank you for your commitment and your enthusiastic advocacy, which in some respects also concerns us about what we owe to our young people in europe. we hope this will be all the more so as we emerge from a difficult period of health crisis with its economic and social consequences, which, as we know, have hit europe's young people more than other generations. we have a kind of debt to these young people. we obviously have a number of european policies that existed before the crisis, which are powerful with regard to young people. i will recall a few points. first, and this is more than a symbol, we have collectively adopted the decision on the year 2022 as the european year of youth. we therefore recognize, as you said, an opportunity, but above all a duty, which we have towards our young people. and we have, since the porto summit, under the portuguese presidency of the council of the european union, at the level of the heads of state and government themselves, renewed this european commitment to move forward together with all the institutions, the social partners, in the concrete implementation also of the european framework of social rights which concerns them in particular. in this context, we have collectively supported ambitious targets in an action plan, including further reducing the proportion of young people aged 15-29 who are neither employed nor in education or training - known as neets - from 12.6% to 9%. we have said and shared that youth employment was a priority area before the crisis, and it is even more so after the crisis. and i believe that the whole package of emergency and support measures we have taken during the crisis in all the member states at european level has helped to combat the peak in unemployment. we have not reached the levels we reached during the previous financial or economic crisis, but i want to say even more strongly - because you have mentioned it and i believe that is the deep meaning of your questions - that we must not make youth policy a sectoral policy, an isolated policy. we have these social rights, we have the european year of youth, we have the mobility programmes which specifically concern them. we are celebrating 35 years of the erasmus programme this year. but we must make youth a cross-cutting issue in our european action. when we set up the recovery plan, we also do so for future generations - it is called the 'next european generation'. when we think about our investment policy and the budgetary policy of tomorrow, we also think about young people. when we think about new initiatives targeting young people, but which are very broad - i am thinking of european civic service, which the french presidency intends to build on existing european programmes in conjunction with the european commission - and when the european commission and president von der leyen propose the alma programme, which aims to offer opportunities to young people who do not yet have them, particularly in terms of mobility, i believe that on all these issues we are making a collective effort and that we are making progress. i know that your committee is particularly committed to the issue of platform workers, and it is often to these young workers who are starting their working lives, sometimes in difficult conditions, that we also turn. finally, i would like to say that the conference on the future of europe, which will be held here in a few hours' time and in which i will be participating, also offers a future perspective which concerns our young people first and foremost. if we want to reform our institutions, our policies, our priorities, our budgets, our actions, to make them more effective, we do it also and above all for the young. this youth policy has multiple inputs, but it is ultimately our common promise that we make through all the great actions that we have taken collectively, in the face of the crisis in particular, and to prepare this world after that which we are building today.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, it’s my great honour to address this house today to talk about our youth and how to empower them. i express my thanks for the very relevant questions that have been put to me today. as president von der leyen said in her state of the union speech last september, our youth is our most educated, talented and motivated generation, and europe needs all of its youth. it is our duty to do everything in our power to protect their future. this is why this year is the european year of youth. it is dedicated to empowering our young people and setting a legacy for future generations beyond 2022. it is being co-created with young people. the european youth portal is one of the key hubs to gather ideas and initiatives throughout the whole year of 2022. when it comes to employment and social policies, we are not starting from scratch. the reinforced youth guarantee commits member states to ensure that all young people under the age of 30 receive a good quality offer of employment, continued education, apprenticeship or traineeship within a period of four months of becoming unemployed or leaving education. this recommendation of the commission was adopted by the council in record time in 2020 and received a warm welcome by this house, which held a debate and adopted a resolution with a huge majority in october 2020. last year, in october, the council of the eu employment committee (emco) reviewed work so far in member states. challenges remain in many areas, but there is a more systematic approach in tackling youth unemployment and inactivity. the union is doing its part. the new esf+ regulation requires that member states with a neet rate above the eu average allocate at least 12.5 % of their national allocation to youth employment measures. furthermore, the commission is setting up alma (aim, learn, master, achieve). alma is based on other successful initiatives financed by the european social fund in member states. it is proof that we do not leave anyone behind, as alma is a cross-border youth mobility scheme for the most disadvantaged young people aged 18 to 30, those who are not in employment, education or training and who are most vulnerable with regard to their chances of accessing work or training for either individual or structural reasons. our young people need education and training systems that are adapted to the societies of today and tomorrow. green, digital and entrepreneurial skills must be the cornerstone of our approach. in 2020, member states agreed on an ambitious recommendation to modernise and improve the vocational educational system. this will be crucial for young people to get their feet into the labour market, in particular through apprenticeship. there are also other ambitious initiatives in the skills domain, such as individual learning accounts and micro—credentials that are innovative approaches that will be of benefit for young people. thanks to the european skills agenda and the pact for skills, since november 2020 six large—scale partnerships have been established in the sectors of automotive, microelectronics, aerospace and defence, offshore renewable energy, shipbuilding and maritime technology, textiles, clothing, leather and footwear. over 500 organisations have pledged to create a culture of learning in their workplaces, including via apprenticeships. together, these alliances will support 1.5 million people. traineeships can also be helpful instruments for young people, provided they meet certain minimum quality requirements, which we are currently reviewing. last, but certainly not least, we need to address mental health as a priority and stop the stigma around it. young people, in particular, have paid a very high price during the pandemic. this is an area where the union has limited ability to act, but let me point out that cohesion policy funds do allow member states to invest in ensuring equal access to healthcare, fostering the resilience of health systems and promoting the transition from institutional to family and community-based care. the instruments and resources are there, and so is the political will. i know i can count fully on the european parliament’s contribution to ensure that the european year of youth will be a success and empower our younger generation. just to repeat what clément beaune said about the conference on the future of europe, for a very good reason we devoted a lot of space and we encouraged a lot of young people to contribute in the very broad debate on how they see the future of europe. the conference is starting tomorrow, 21 january 2022, with the working groups and the plenary. i’m very much looking forward to meeting the young people here because this is a new wave of very fresh air.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, we start 2022, the european year of youth, still in the grip of a pandemic. since the beginning, the virus and the effect of the health measures have greatly affected our youth’s lives and their well-being. the pandemic has taken a toll on mental health, with the number of young europeans suffering from anxiety and depression rising steeply; it has had an impact on their social lives and on their education, with school closures and shifting to online learning, and it has only worsened their employment prospects. madam commissioner, we must put our youth needs first in this post-pandemic recovery. we must do everything to empower and invest in our youth, to encourage their creativity, to innovate and for them to be ready to help to solve the challenges of our times, such as the digital and green transitions.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, i welcome this question from the committee on employment and social affairs. our young people have suffered hugely during covid. they have sacrificed years of their young lives to keep others safe. decent pay, a living wage and properly resourced mental health services are important to many young people and must be championed in a post-covid world and immediately. specific policies for youth are all well and good, but we must look at the type of society young people are growing up in and entering as adults. unfortunately, in an irish context, that society is deeply unfair. this is down to irish government policy. the irish state refuses to use its resources to solve issues like childcare and health issues. instead, it farms out as much as it can to private actors. this is especially damaging in housing. where their parents could afford a family home on a single average wage, younger couples can now both be working in well-paid jobs and still not be able to afford a home for their young family, stuck renting at sky-high prices, and that’s before childcare costs. the advocating of vulture funds and similar financial vehicles means that young families and single young people simply cannot compete with billion-dollar funds buying up what little homes there are. it is deeply unfair. young people deserve a society where a home is affordable. that is something that should – and can – be delivered on with the right policies.
mr. president, i have to ask you... it's not big words that young people need, but good help, knowledge, a home of their own and, say, financial support. in our country, starting this year, young people under 25 will not have to pay personal income tax, and they will be able to take home more money up to the average income. this measure affects 280 000 young people already in employment. there's also an interest-free student loan that young women who have children later, who have more children, don't have to pay back. it also helps to start a family. these measures are also confirmed by eurostat data. the risk of poverty among young people has decreased from 2.4% to 12% despite the coronavirus pandemic, and youth unemployment has decreased from 10% to 8.7% in ten years. i would recommend that the other eu member states follow our example and use the resources of the european union in this way.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is now quite clear that the coronavirus pandemic will leave many negative consequences, unfortunately, and one of the most affected groups will certainly be our young people. in 2022, the european year of youth. i'm not going to talk about their concerns about entertainment, social life, education, of course, social inclusion, but i'm going to talk about the unemployment problem. i think that the commission, together with the member states, has a huge responsibility here. all of this, of course, has to be seen in the light of the demographic problems of europe as a whole and particularly of my country of origin, croatia. unemployment directly affects young people's mental health, creates fear, insecurity and defines young people's behaviour and, of course, determines their thinking about future plans and family formation. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that after two years, we are finally coming to the end of this unfortunate pandemic, but this is not a time for celebration, but for the urgent preparation of post-pandemic relief measures and concrete programs. i ask you therefore to give top priority to young people who have been very deprived and suffering for almost two years and who urgently need concrete measures and programmes to make life and work easier and try to return them and the whole society to the old, i would say only normal, as soon as possible. we need a common european response because just as covid knows no borders, the response to covid must be borderless, be european, a common response and in this way we will help young people but also our entire society to recover faster. so let's look at investing in young people as an important investment, not as a cost.
madam president, the attitude towards children and young people in europe that we have seen and are seeing in the wake of the covid crisis is terrible, as if we were watching which country will inflict more harm on its youngest population with bad policies, as if it were some kind of competition. unfortunately, the damage done is incalculable. locking up in homes and apartments, dropping out of school, massive losses of hours and materials in education, a campaign of fear and panic by the media and the government, mandatory mask-wearing in schools, conditional passes to enter educational institutions themselves, are already announcing lasting psychological consequences. there's an increased suicide rate in this age group. there's a push for vaccination even though the chance of side effects is much greater than the risk from covid, which is almost unmeasurable for this population. pharmacovigilance systems show a dramatic spike in myocarditis in children and adolescents as a side effect of vaccination. all this was happening with almost no justification in science or practice. therefore, the post-pandemic and social recovery that we are talking about will not be possible until those who participated in this terror are held accountable.
ladies and gentlemen, if we fail to act decisively, cancer will increase by more than 24% by 2035 and become the leading cause of death in the european union. the time is ripe for radical and comprehensive action, and the adoption of the european plan to fight cancer and this report are key steps in that direction. this report contains a number of specific measures which i myself have proposed. it calls for a single set of rules on reimbursement of cross-border healthcare, including the right to a second opinion, to simplify and facilitate access to treatment and clinical trials, in particular for patients suffering from rare cancers and for children, whose day we are marking today. it is particularly important that costs are funded before treatment starts in order to avoid discrimination against low-income patients, thus demonstrating that solidarity is our priority. in addition, we stress the importance of increased investment in health infrastructure and health workers through cohesion policy in order to reduce disparities in the quality of care across the eu and to provide equal access to quality healthcare for all our citizens. the aim is to ensure that the union's citizens have access to medicines, regardless of where they live, by collectively procuring high-priced medicines. we are sending a clear message: there can be no first and second class citizens in the european union. finally, we are calling for european legislation to guarantee the right to be forgotten for cancer survivors. no one will be discriminated against or have difficulty accessing financial services because they have overcome this disease. the report before us represents a huge step forward in the fight against cancer, especially for patients and their families, and i ask you to support it by voting for it.
madam president, this year in colombia 22 women leaders and social leaders have been murdered, and 19 massacres have taken place. in 2021, in the context of the protests, police killed, disappeared and sexually assaulted hundreds and hundreds of protesters. the systematic violations of human rights are endless and the progress in implementing the peace agreement is negligible. despite this, at the human rights dialogue last week the european union did nothing but congratulate colombia on its progress. no criticism, much less a conviction for the murders of 174 human rights defenders. and to top off the shamelessness, this week the duke is being welcomed on the red carpet in europe. this is a disgrace in this parliament today. what are the tools of human rights if they are not then applied with supposedly friendly governments. stop being so hypocritical. the lives of the colombian people are worth more than political and commercial interests. let us take note and never again tolerate a shamelessness such as we have seen today with ivan duque here in this parliament.
madam president, mr borrell, big words, good intentions, but then reality persists. julian assange has been jailed in a european prison for a few years. one year ago, singer pablo hasel was put in a european prison for lyrics and tweets. one week ago, the council of europe commissioner for human rights said that she was alarmed by the effects of spanish law on freedom of expression and assembly. in the report, there are only two points devoted to national, ethnic and linguistic minorities, and european partners are asked to respect their rights. does the eu do that? no. i’m one of the more than 10 million inhabitants of a part of europe where my language, catalan, is official. a language that is spoken in four eu member states. but i cannot use it in this parliament today – ironically, in the debate on the report calling on other countries to respect national and linguistic minorities.
madam president, mr high representative, thank you for your willingness to discuss these essential human rights. it should be remembered that the treaty on european union lays down the obligation to respect fundamental rights within the european union, but also to promote and consolidate human rights in the european union's external action. to remain credible, we must be consistent, that is to say, we must not accept any violation of human rights within the union, but we must also avoid double standards and double language outside. as we know, the model that places human rights at the heart of our values is not shared by all today. we must therefore defend it with strength and conviction. otherwise, other models, liberticidal and authoritarian, will impose themselves on us and others. the annual report, the content of which we are discussing today, highlights the actions that have been taken, but also those that need to be taken, in the field of human rights in a complex context. the dialogue on human rights with third countries is now considered too weak and unable to produce satisfactory results. the fight against impunity by all the instruments at our disposal sometimes suffers from inconsistency. the overall sanctions mechanism which you defended in the council unfortunately did not bother to deal with unanimity of decision or corruption. finally, the issue of human rights and business is also something we have to address, but i know that you are in favour of it.
mr. chairman, we have before us the human rights and democracy report 2021. it's been a year of unprecedented assault on human rights and democracy. we could even say that there was a global war on democracy. we have seen restrictions on the right to work, to move and to assemble, restrictions on the right to freedom of expression, unprecedented censorship of classical media and social networks, censorship of science, the right to health care, care and treatment being undermined. governments around the world have turned into dictatorships. all with the blessing and encouragement of the team from the world economic forum, the unelected who openly claim that sovereign states are surplus and obsolete and that some new age is coming their way and they want to play world government. 2021 was also a year of unprecedented struggle for their rights and resistance to this undermining of democracy. the struggle of all of us who want to live in a democratic world, not a totalitarian one.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, corruption is the economic, political and psychological aspect of human rights violations. it distorts socio—economic realities, hinders access to public goods and quality services, and creates artificial hierarchies that impose additional costs on citizens and entire societies. the eu needs real magnitsky sanctions that include corruption as a sanctionable offence. our democratic allies – the united states, canada, united kingdom and australia – all include corruption under their magnitsky legislations. the absence of corruption at the eu level is not only restrictive but also means that we lag behind our global partners. by avoiding to punish high—level corruption, thus we become accomplices to human rights crimes. we fail the same people – human rights defenders and democracy activists – who we unconditionally support. corrupt autocrats repress peaceful protests, illegally imprison people demanding basic freedoms and rights, and despite all of this, are free to use their ill—gotten wealth to maintain their power and enjoy a life of luxury, including real estate, holidays and education of their children in the west. together with colleagues, we have repeatedly called on the european external action service and the council to put an end to such abuses, and to update the european union magnitsky act to include corruption. we will insist until this done.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, there are a growing number of authoritarian regimes run by kleptocrats and extractive elites. they blatantly use power to enrich themselves, while repressing dissenting voices to ensure that they can continue to steal with impunity. against this background, the eu needs to lead global efforts to end systemic corruption, which erodes human rights, institutionalises crime and perpetuates inequalities. we should take full advantage of our foreign policy toolbox in order to tackle big corruption. but corruption is a complex and global phenomenon that, in one way or another, affects all countries and therefore requires efforts both at international level and at home. in this regard, the eu needs to be more effective in combating, within its borders, issues like tax evasion, illicit trade, banking secrecy and money laundering, shortcomings in the implementation by member states of eu anti-corruption regulations, eu—based secrecy jurisdictions and tax havens, and certain financial and legal actors based in the eu. all this emboldens corrupt actors outside the eu and allows the disguising of illicit financial flows into the eu. therefore, our report includes a call to recognise the responsibility of certain eu—based individuals and entities as enablers or beneficiaries of corruption abroad and to take action. it is time for the eu to push back against the global threat of kleptocracy, and this also requires acting against complicity happening right before our eyes.
mr. chairman, we need to set the parameters right, and the parameters are that a few large funds control a huge, if not entire, part of the economy, especially the western one. second, that one billionaire has more assets than billions of other people. we're talking about entities with unlimited resources that have been further augmented in this crisis. there has been the largest transfer of wealth in history. it is therefore logical and clear that there is unlimited potential for corruption. politicians made unscientific and undemocratic decisions, media spread censorship and fear, only to apologize in the end. science has often been deliberately misjudged. how many reputable universities have lost their prestige in this crisis. they're all in the marketing wagon. it has been used, unfortunately, by the executive branch to attack human rights, labor, movement, expression, health care and many others. i ask that the links between the commission and the pharmaceutical companies be thoroughly investigated, especially by the ombudsman. we have to sanction this kind of systemic corruption, or it's only a matter of time before it takes over.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of toys is not compromised by the fact that they are not safe for children. this is evidenced by the fact that, according to the latest information from the register of dangerous non-food products, toys were the most frequently notified product, with as much as 27% of all notifications. we therefore need to improve the safety rules for children's toys, especially those imported into europe from third countries. the internet is the place where dishonest merchants often offer unsafe toys to consumers. the digital services act, which parliament is involved in, will provide rules to ensure secure shopping in the digital environment. in addition, the ageing of chemical use should be removed as part of the review of the toy safety directive. they are concerned, in particular, by reports that some manufacturers deliberately misrepresent that a toy is intended for children over 36 months of age in order to avoid compliance with the stricter safety standards for children under 36 months of age. it is therefore important that the european commission investigates in detail such allegations and market practices as soon as possible and, in line with the findings, proposes amendments to the relevant legislation. when it comes to the safety of our children, we have never, and will never, and must never, compromise!
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the single market is the foundation of the european union and as such generates 25% of european gdp. however, its full potential has yet to be realised. scientific studies show that the hidden potential of the single market is as high as eur 713 billion. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. we also need to work to preserve the integrity of the single market, especially in times of health crises. the emergence of covid-19 has led to disruptions in supply chains, which have led to a number of member states facing shortages of critical medical equipment. unfortunately, some producing countries have imposed export restrictions, making the situation much more difficult for those countries that desperately needed this equipment. i am therefore extremely pleased that this report welcomes the establishment of the mechanism for the control of restrictions on exports of medical equipment, which i proposed. this mechanism will prevent unjustified export restrictions in the event of health crises and ensure that the european principle of solidarity is never compromised again.
dear chair, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the uncertainty of the pandemic, the pandemic lockdowns, online education, the declining prospects for employment, for self-employment, but also for starting a family, have affected our generation, the generation of young people, in the last two years in a way that has rarely affected any generation in the last decades. that is why all the policies and programmes we decide on here in the european parliament must prevent the opening up and creation of new and lost generations and must send a clear message that the recovery of europe without young people is simply impossible. digital transformation is dramatically changing the way that we all, and especially young people, communicate, do business and live, and that is certainly a challenge, but it is also an opportunity. i've seen this through my travels to various successful entrepreneurial stories, but also to different parts of croatia, places like lipik and novska. because digital transformation is an opportunity, an opportunity to offer a new way of learning, an opportunity for the quality jobs of the future. the innovation and creativity of young people must be brought to the fore by removing administrative barriers and opening up space for young people across europe to shape their future independently and with a sense of urgency future in all parts of the european union.
as the title of this debate suggests, 'one youth, one europe', this should be one of the main objectives of the european year of youth. this year we must take concrete initiatives and decisions that will improve and equalize the position of young people because their potential is great and they must have equal opportunities, whether they are in paris, pechue or varaždin. based on the statistics and the trends, two things are clear. first, young people have been hit particularly hard by the pandemic and bold decisions in the areas of employment, housing, public health and education policies are needed to mitigate the negative impact of the crisis to the maximum. secondly, the situation of young people across europe varies widely and we see that some member states are much more successful in implementing coherent youth policies. what is disappointing at the moment is that we, the european institutions, and the member states, have unfortunately not taken noticeable steps in the first month of the european year of youth in terms of design and implementation to ensure that this year is not full of promises and ramblings, and that young people are left frustrated, discouraged and discouraged after all.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, dear citizens, today we are not talking about the rule of law here, but about the terror of the ideology of the workers. it's called hungary and poland, where the citizens are mostly traditional values, and they want to get rid of them, they want to change their government, they want their citizens to accept the counter-ideologies that, if they had been recognized earlier, the european union would have had much fewer member states. if it were a misuse of funds, it would be called the republic of croatia in the first place. in the republic of croatia, more ministers and more public officials have been charged with corruption and misuse of material resources in the last few years than in all other european union countries combined. don't be surprised, if you continue like this, that the european union will have considerably fewer members in a few years.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, dear citizens, covid certificates are one of the stupidest ideas in the history of mankind. in addition to directly leading to the deaths of huge numbers of people around the world because vaccinated people, not tested, spread the virus in hospitals among vulnerable people, they also brought armies to the streets and into the member states of the european union. when i travel from croatia to france or belgium, i have an army waiting for me at the austrian border, an army waiting for me at the austrian airport, an army waiting for me at the german border with long pipes, with automatic weapons. this is the europe we live in today, and it's the result of that one idiotic idea covid confirmation. i hope you'll have the courage to put an end to them once and for all.
mr. chairman, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about protecting workers from carcinogens, we should definitely mention ethylene oxide. last year alone, 2021, the ministry of agriculture recalled 80 products in croatia for preventive reasons, for good consumer and health protection standards, without it being proven that it does harm. however, this standard does not apply to test swabs. if you take the test once, you probably won't have any problems. but if you do it every day or every few days and for years now, what the consequences will be for workers who can't get to their workplace without the test or for children, we don't really know because there's no research. ethylene oxide is registered with the european chemicals agency under number 75218 and is considered toxic, carcinogenic and mutagenic. so why are these safety standards not being used in this case, since this chemical is used for sterilization in a large number of cases? i ask the agencies and the governments: are you not concerned about what's happening?
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, the recent coup in burkina faso on 24 january concerns us all, not only because it is the third coup in west africa in less than two years, but also because, since the fall of former president compaoré in 2014, burkina faso was seen as an example of a successful democratic transition. on 26 january the hr-vp strongly condemned this coup, calling in particular for the immediate release of president kaboré, as well as for a rapid return to constitutional order. since that date, we note that president kaboré is still under house arrest, and the authorities are yet to announce a transition timetable. in this context, it seems important to maintain a firm position. we need to encourage the authorities, under lieutenant colonel damiba, who was just sworn in as the new president of burkina faso, to send positive signs to the international community, in particular by presenting a reasonable timetable for the transition and releasing president kaboré. on this point, we will closely follow the reaction of ecowas. indeed, ecowas heads of state have suspended burkina faso from the regional organisation, called for the return to a constitutional order in the shortest time and put in place a monitoring mechanism. all of this takes place in a difficult security situation. as you know, armed terrorist groups affiliated with al-qaeda or the islamic state operate almost freely on more than a third of burkinabe territory. they have caused more than 1.5 million internally displaced persons who face a very difficult situation of shelter and food insecurity. the eu will respond to the changing situation. we should aim to have a pragmatic approach with the objective of encouraging the rapid return to constitutional order. our priorities include the terrorist threats in the region, as well as the protection and improvement of living conditions of the population. i recall that we are entering a new cooperation cycle. all discussions on future programmes are on hold, including on budget support. how we will deal with ongoing programmes, in particular those which are of direct benefit to the state, will be evaluated together with member states once we know the direction the new authorities are taking. with all these elements, once the authorities in burkina faso have better outlined their approach, we will be able to define our response more clearly.
madam chairman, colleagues, that's why i'm calling on you. when i have made mistakes in this parliament and when someone has been offended, i have always apologised. but that's not what happened yesterday. yesterday's incident, where i simply greeted your colleague who was conducting the meeting and waved to her to show that i understood what she was saying to me, was deeply misinterpreted, extremely misinterpreted and made world news. a world news story that claims i have used banned nazi symbols in this parliament. no, madam chairman, i did not. if i wanted to, i could tell you. i was gonna do it from the stands, not leaving the courtroom. i don't use such symbols because i'm deeply convinced that they have no place in society and in this room. the way this reaction was spread was outrageous, extremely rude and extremely offensive. so i'm going to apologize to anyone who says that. to link a simple wave of approval with a hand, it's obvious how it's done, and to say it's a nazi salute is terribly stupid. please, just give me a little more time. i know it's a time-consuming process, but this is important. we don't use such symbols for very clear reasons. but i'm telling you again, if i wanted to do it, it would be here. and today, all day long, i listen to and watch the news, explanations. that's simply not true, madam chairman, i insist on it being recorded. i want an apology. thank you for your patience.
i have a small announcement. mr nicolas bay has left the id group and now sits with the non—attached members as from 16 february 2022.
we now come to today’s second voting session. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda and the voting session will be open from 13.45 until 15.00. the same voting method will be used as during the previous voting sessions. all votes will be held by roll-call vote. i declare the second voting session open. you have until 15.00 to vote. the results of the second voting session will be announced at 16.00. (the sitting was suspended at 13.47)
the next item is the major interpellation for written answer with debate by mara bizzotto to the commission on strengthening the system for protecting pdo and pgi denominations in the eu after the prosecco/prosek case (g—001003/2021) (b9-0004/2022). i would like to remind members that for all the debates of this part-session there will be no catch—the—eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted. furthermore, as during recent part-sessions, remote interventions from parliament’s liaison offices in the member states are foreseen. i would also like to remind you that interventions in the chamber will continue to be made from the central rostrum. i therefore kindly invite you to keep an eye on the speakers’ list and to approach the rostrum when your speaking time is imminent.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the croatian prošek is a fraud against our prosecco, against made in italy and against consumers all over the world, and it threatens to destroy the european system of pdo and pgi marks. today, for the first time, the european parliament's plenary session is dealing with the prosecco/prošek war, which has become a symbolic case throughout europe. the european commission has behaved in a scandalous way: in september 2021, it launched the process for the recognition of prošek and since then it has closed in shameful silence, despite the fact that three months have passed since the official position presented by italy. it is equally scandalous that today, officially speaking on behalf of the european commission, there is not the commissioner for agriculture, but another commissioner. what have you got to hide? why does the commissioner for agriculture not have the courage to come to parliament and say clearly what he wants to do about the prošek case? what game are you playing? it is worth recalling that croatia had already tried to obtain recognition of prošek in 2013, but was rejected by then commissioner cioloş. i quote the words of cioloş in reply to my question: 'the use of the term prošek in trade may create legal problems, as the croatian name could conflict with the protection of the italian pdo prosecco. the croatian authorities are aware of this legal problem.' what has changed in these nine years to justify this dramatic turn of events by the commission? today, as then, croatian prošek is in open conflict with the pdo prosecco, which protects the quality of our wine and the work of 8 000 italian producers. recognising the name prošek would be a very serious breach of european regulations, which protect pdo and pgi products from any attempt to evoke, imitate and distort the name, even when the name is translated. the system of protected designations of origin and geographical indications is the cornerstone of the european union's agri-food policy. if europe does not want to defend prosecco, which is the most famous and best-selling italian wine in the world, what will happen to other italian products in europe with pdo and pgi? europe must strengthen the instruments that defend our products, not scrap the system of pdos and pgi using the trojan horse of prošek. the time for small talk is over. europe must say no to the request for recognition of prošek. the only true prosecco is the italian prosecco, produced in veneto and friuli, recognized and protected by the doc and docg designations. europe is playing for its head. we will not give up an inch, and we are ready at the barricades to defend our prosecco and all made in italy.
member of the commission. – madam president, good afternoon honourable members, honourable member of parliament bizzotto. so before addressing the two specific questions raised by this major interpellation, i shall first provide a brief update on the application for protection of the croatian traditional term prošek. as it is customary, the publication for objection of the traditional term prošek was preceded by cautious commission scrutiny based on the applicable legal framework. given that the croatian application fulfilled all the relevant legal conditions, the commission published the application on 22 september last year. all interested parties had two months from the date of publication to submit an objection. the commission received 12 objections. so according to eu rules, admissible objections will be transmitted to croatia for observations. then any observation provided by croatia will be communicated to italy. following these exchanges and on the basis of all available information of eu legislation and of the jurisprudence of the european court of justice, the commission will take the final decision to protect or reject the traditional term prošek through a commission implementing regulation. as regards the reform of the eu geographical indications system, the commission services are currently working on a proposal to strengthen the system of geographical indications, which, as you know, is a major agricultural policy objective of the von der leyen commission. the commission intends to adopt the legislative proposal in april and submit it to the co-legislators. the commission proposal will aim to strengthen the system of geographical indications for all agricultural sectors. it will contribute to the objectives of the common agricultural policy, addressing societal demands on food and health and thus the objectives of the european green deal and farm to fork strategy. the proposal will be underpinned by an impact assessment analysing and assessing options based on facts and evidence, and i can reassure you that the commission is taking the concerns raised in this major interpellation into consideration. while the fundamental structure of the eu gi system is sound, its revision focuses on two general objectives: ensuring effective protection of intellectual property rights within the eu, including efficient registration processes to further reward producers for their efforts, and increasing the uptake of gis across the eu to benefit the rural economy. more specifically, the commission intends to further enhance the protection of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications, including defining the scope of avocation. in addition to this, the whole system of protection against direct or indirect commercial use, misuse, avocation, imitation, should also apply to terms used in internet domain names, having regard to goods and services presented in the web page under that name. furthermore, the commission also intends to introduce stricter rules on the use of gi names in the sale names of processed goods when the gi product is an ingredient of the processed product. in relation to your second question, the eu has an extensive set of rules on official controls in the agrifood chain to provide efficient and stronger enforcement tools at national level. member states’ competent authorities must control if the producers comply with the rules set forth for geographical indications and take the necessary steps to stop unlawful practices on their territories. a network of food fraud contact points in the member states has been set up to facilitate administrative assistance and cooperation in cases of cross—border violations. the european anti-fraud office is a member of this network. it has launched several inquiries targeting in particular infringement of intellectual property rights, including geographical indications on its own initiative or to support the enforcement activities of competent national agencies against cross-border frauds. the administrative assistance and cooperation system set up by the european commission is providing a confidential network between the competent authorities, enabling member states and, under specific conditions, stakeholders, to notify each other of suspected usurpations of geographical indications and to request action. moreover, to ensure monitoring of the control done by member states, the commission is auditing their official control systems and intervenes in case of systemic failure to apply eu law. the commission also organises training sessions and seminars on control issues with regard to geographical indications in order to provide guidance and share best practices beyond our borders. the eu is fully committed to enhancing the international protection of eu geographical indications by including a comprehensive gi provisions in the intellectual property chapters in bilateral agreements. this way, a comparable level of protection and enforcement of gis is guaranteed in the partner country to that of the eu. each bilateral agreement protecting gis lays down obligations on both parties to verify compliance of the products using these gis with production rules, as well as specific enforcement mechanisms to apply on the party’s respective markets. the commission also engages with trading partners in intellectual property dialogues and intellectual property technical cooperation programmes, which promote the protection and effective enforcement of gis in line with eu standards. in addition, in accordance with regulation no 608/2013 on customs enforcement of intellectual property rights, member states’ customs authorities may act at the border and detain goods suspected of infringing pdos and pgis. regulation 608/2013 also gives olaf a specific mandate for mutual assistance in fighting counterfeit goods imported from third countries. olaf has been active in that field for several years, as illustrated by the dismantling of a fraudulent network producing fake rum. finally, counterfeit food is also the focus of regular cross-border operations between member state law enforcement, such as through the opson operations within the framework of the eu policy cycle on serious and organised crime facilitated by europol with the active participation of olaf.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, imagine a request for a traditional term called 'champagne' or perhaps 'portolese'. does that sound crazy? i sincerely do, too. but it does not seem so absurd, otherwise we would not have had the debate we have here today. prosecco is not just any name in europe. with 600 million bottles it is the most produced sparkling wine in europe and the european union and one of the most important designations of origin, both in numbers and value, known throughout the world. is it serious to jeopardize this denomination with the traditional mention? it's not a good idea. the commission should have blocked this attack on prosecco years ago, partly because croatia, which is already on the verge of joining the european union, has basically accepted that it does not want to claim this name. during a debate in the committee on agriculture a few months ago, the commission representatives told us that there was no danger, because these are very different products. this will be true for the italian market, for the croatian market, perhaps even for consumers and the european market. but are we sure that a consumer in tokyo or new york understands that prosciutto and prosecco are two completely different things? i don't think he did. i realize that the regulation is unclear, perhaps even superficial, when it allows the traditional term to coexist with the designation of origin, and here we must intervene, commissioner. but if we do not accept this, how can we seriously defend the denominations, especially the most well-known ones in the world, with the mechanism you have just highlighted? the question could become a precedent for other important wine and agri-food denominations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i am sure that the commission will take them seriously. what do we say tomorrow if we ourselves, at home, accept a situation like this? so let's stop this nonsense! it is too dangerous, not only for prosecco and for the denominations as a whole, but i think it is not good for prošek either, since the copy is always worse than the original.
on behalf of the s&d club. dear chairwoman, ladies and gentlemen, i come from dalmatia where silk has been traditionally produced for centuries. this old name was used long before prosecco was protected in the european union. the reputation of the flax is primarily due to the quality resulting from the specific local production techniques. some important differences between the beggar and the average person should be emphasised, since they are not and cannot be direct competitors in the market. these two drinks are easily distinguished by color, taste, grape variety, method and region of production, size and shape of the bottle, and price. prosecco is produced in large quantities, while silk is sold in small quantities, and mostly on the local market. a reasonably informed consumer, as the regulations say, cannot be misled. in this case, incomplete and incorrect interpretations as well as accusations of misuse, imitation or allusion should be rejected. the latex is not a new product labeled as latex just to evoke associations with prosecco. the similarities in name stem from the rich historical and linguistic heritage that our two countries share. a legacy to be celebrated, not belittled and abused. prosecco is an aperitif served at the beginning of a meal, while vinegar, as a dessert wine, is served at the end. accordingly, let every good meal begin with a medium and end with a walk. i would like to thank the commission for its work so far and for its prompt response to my letter concerning the unfounded attempts to obstruct the protection of the name 'prošek'. i would remind you that commissioner wojciechowski, in answer to a question from a member of parliament, explains that coexistence of products is possible, even in the case of two homonymous concepts. recognising the traditional footpath cannot in any way weaken the existing system of protection, it can only strengthen it. this would also be a recognition of the contribution of the indigenous products of the new member states, since the principle of 'united in diversity' should be respected. croatia and its producers cannot and should not be discriminated against because of cases of linguistic similarities, much less because of the fact that croatia is the newest member of the european union. we fight for equality, fairness and impartiality. it's just that in cases like this, it's proven in practice. the european union must therefore protect small traditional producers of indigenous products from large ones that seek to abuse their dominant position on the market. without such equality, there is no future for us.
on behalf of the renew club. mr president, commissioner, i am very pleased to hear that the protection system, namely the protection of designations of origin and geographical origin, will be strengthened in the future throughout the european union. this is, of course, good news for our loyal farmers and for better and stronger protection of quality indigenous agricultural products. but i want to say here loud and clear that the so-called "prosecco-pastek" case does not exist. neither the croatian-italian struggle nor the dispute nor the war, as you mentioned, dear mrs. bizzotto. prosecco and vinegar are two completely different wines. while the pastel is a ripe dessert wine, the prosecco is a young, fresh, sparkling wine. these two wines in the production process have a completely different technological approach, and that needs to be known and understood. and that's why, dear mrs. bizzotto, there is no conflict, no standards, and god forbid, no war, as you say. because we know very well that wine should and must unite people, not divide them. and of course it's important to protect the vineyard to prevent the unfair practice of wine that was first mentioned back in 1844. i repeat, 1844, and just as we have protected the quality of indigenous agricultural products - olive oil, istrian terrain, pork - we want to do the same with the pavement. i don't see a problem with that either because i know, after the example and the battle for our terrain, that the correct labelling of the product does not lead to any confusion for the consumer. and that's why i look forward to the strengthening of the mark of originality and why i'm sure that the past will proudly carry that mark in the future. commissioner, i ask you to use this kind of thinking to guide your future activities, to devote energy to protecting quality agricultural, indigenous products, and thus to help both farmers and consumers. hail to the passing, alla salute con prosecco.
the debate on the differences and similarities between croatian wine and italian prosecco has been going on in the eu institutions since croatia's accession to the european union, and the italian side has systematically obstructed the protection of the authenticity of the prosecco and its positioning on the european wine map and market. the italian claims that the rag is a new product, or a copy of their average, and that there is therefore a risk of misleading consumers and unfair competition are completely incorrect. croatian vesek is a dense and sweet wine that falls into the category of dessert, while italian prosecco is a lightly sparkling wine. since these are two products of different colours, smells and prices, different traditions and consumption habits, the italian side's protest is pointless. there are no points of contact in taste, production method or type of grapes in comparison of these two products, and the vinegar has an invaluable significance in the centuries-old, historical and oenological tradition of croatia. i'm going with "multi-century". i welcome the fact that the commission took a reasonable position in its written observations last year and indicated that homonymy, or similarity of names, is not sufficient to reject the croatian claim and that, especially in view of the local and traditional use, homonyms in this sense can coexist as in the present case. i am also pleased that the commission has recently published the croatian application for protection of the traditional term "žžek" in the official journal of the eu and that the procedure for taking a final decision is ongoing. in view of the above, i can safely say that croatian sparkling wine and italian prosecco do not belong to the same group of wines. croatia has a strong historical and legal legitimacy to recognise the traditional term "pasek" at the european union level. despite italy's arguments and obstruction, croatia, as a full member of the european union, has every right to protect its traditional indigenous product, the latex, and it does, and i am convinced that the commission will take a positive decision for croatia in this case and thus confirm the equality of all before the rules of the common market.
the honourable chairman, the commissioner. thank you to my colleague salima who was the reporter for this documentary, and to all the shadow reporters for a job well done. the problem of racism in the european union, unfortunately, is not a matter of individual incidents but a structural problem woven into almost all pores of society. some of the best channels to address this problem are education, culture, media and sport. education systems across the union must include courses and colleges that address this issue and teach children and young people that racism has no place in our society, but rather that it is a place where our differences come together, where we learn to express ourselves individually, where we create connections that carry those of our core values: openness, equality and tolerance. while racism is unfortunately still present in all these areas, as this report shows, we have a great deal of work to do to defeat it once and for all. and that is why for those who incite, promote and implement racism we demand the strictest punishments, without exception.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the healthcare sector, in particular the healthcare sector in the eu. you're much more likely to die of cancer if you live in the less developed regions of the european union than in the more developed parts of western and northern europe, which is unacceptable. we must do everything we can to eliminate these differences, and the most effective instrument for this is cohesion policy. cohesion policy promotes growth and employment in regions throughout the union, and in particular in those that are lagging behind. about one third of the eu budget is used for this purpose. the cohesion policy is therefore not only the union's most important investment policy, but also an expression of solidarity between it and its member states. the commission should also be able to use the resources of the european regional development fund and the european social fund to support the implementation of the union's regional policy objectives, in particular by supporting the implementation of the union's regional policy objectives. however, inequalities in health between member states remain a reality and cohesion investments in health need to be further increased and used more efficiently than they have been so far. the report identifies the main problems of the current situation and points to potential solutions. the biggest problem of health inequalities is seen in the elements of health infrastructure, but also in the lack of manpower that directly affects the success of treatment in less developed regions. this is why long-term investment in health infrastructure and workforce is more urgent than ever, especially in view of the economic and health consequences of the pandemic. citizens in rural areas, outermost regions and islands often face barriers to equal access to healthcare, which limit their ability to obtain much-needed services. there must be no first-class citizens and no second-class citizens in the european union, and services must be available to all and available in a timely manner. in order to overcome the main obstacles to equal access to healthcare in rural areas, advanced technologies such as ehealth should be used extensively as an integral part of the smart villages concept with the aim of improving access to healthcare. furthermore, we need to motivate health workers, especially doctors and nurses, to start or continue their work in rural areas. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of intellectual property rights. in addition, the improvement of working conditions will encourage a strategy to retain health workers in these areas. i also called in the report for cohesion policy funds to be used to develop specialised centres of excellence for specific diseases across the eu, reaching out to neighbouring countries and contributing to cross-border cooperation in healthcare. it is necessary to use in synergy all existing eu instruments, such as eu health and horizon europe, to develop a network of such centres spread evenly across the union. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the lack of transparency in the implementation of the union's health policy. the pilot project will also provide a platform for the exchange of information on the implementation of the union's health policy and the health policy of the member states, including the implementation of the union's health policy and the health policy of the member states. finally, it is crucial that when evaluating the impact of cohesion policy, account is taken of how much investment has contributed to improving health outcomes, such as cancer recovery rates, and this is precisely the area where we see the greatest disparities in the european union today. the covid-19 pandemic represents a historic milestone for investments in health systems and i therefore call on member states to seek to mobilise the maximum amount of structural funds to meet the health needs of european citizens in the new programming period.
madam chair, since the beginning of the covid-19 crisis, as many as six out of ten consumers have encountered financial difficulties. in such circumstances, many consumers have come to me with complaints that banks have sent unsolicited credit cards to their home address or that they have unilaterally increased the limits of allowed and silent overdrafts on their current accounts. such practices by banks must stop immediately as they harm the financial interests of consumers who are often unaware of the increase in the debt limit. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the provision of information on the use of credit cards and the use of credit cards for the payment of interest. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union makes it clear that union policies must ensure a high level of consumer protection, and the consumer credit directive is the right instrument to help us achieve this.
dear colleagues, dear citizens, up until two weeks ago, i was convinced that the amount of hypocrisy and lies that the mainstream media has been pouring out on the citizens of europe and the world during the covid-19 pandemic was unmatched. however, i was very disappointed. since the beginning of the war in ukraine, the amount of lies and false support for ukraine has been horrifying. on the one hand, there's talk of trying to stop russia from funding this war. they're sanctioning athletes, they're banning singers, they're taking non-essential russian banks out of swift. and on the other hand, the members of the european union bought 10 billion euros of russian gas and oil. what do you think they do with that money? let's stop being hypocrites and stop this war now.
mr. chairman, a little over 30 years ago, with horrifying propaganda and under the pretext of alleged threat, the serbian aggressor regime launched its huge military force against the young croatian state. the tragedy of the column of refugees and exiles from vukovar, but also from other croatian towns and villages, is now being repeated once again on the european continent. over two million ukrainian women, children, the elderly and the helpless were forced in the first two weeks of russian aggression to pack their lives in several bags and under shells to escape the ravages of war. this time europe is more united than ever and that unity must be preserved at all costs. along with military aid and sanctions, we're unified in humanitarian aid. from romania to warsaw, from slovakia to osijek. we're showing the best of ourselves, the best of europe. today, on international women's day, i also want to pay the strongest tribute to all ukrainian mothers and women who are the most vulnerable target in every war, and who show courage and determination in the difficult moments of painful separation, with the promise that in croatia and in europe they have a safe refuge from the evil and aggression against which their husbands, sons and the entire ukrainian people are fighting and against which they will sooner or later win.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the only way to ensure stability and full sovereignty of countries like bosnia and herzegovina, as well as other partners like georgia and moldova, is the final surrender of putin’s russian federation in bloody war waged against ukraine, withdrawal from all internationally recognised territories of ukraine and from meddling in the whole region and elsewhere in the world. i think that in between we have to keep utmost engagement in our relationship with bosnia and herzegovina.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, the political situation in bosnia and herzegovina is deteriorating in a unique way in this poor, landlocked and divided country, which has not really overcome the trauma of the civil war and whose institutions are not functioning well. tensions are growing between the so-called croat-muslim federation of bosnia and the serb republic of bosnia. the latter, it has been said, no longer conceals its desire to secede. milorad dodik, the political leader of the bosnian serbs, no longer recognises the legitimacy of sarajevo and demands to be allowed to have its own army, its own judicial system and its own taxation system. in this perilous context, of course, vladimir putin's war throws a blinding, raw light on the plans of mr dodik, who makes no secret of his allegiance to russia and relies on its support to achieve his goals. and then there is the united states, the promoter of the dayton agreements, which is very interested in the region and which has adopted sanctions against mr dodik. we are therefore in the process of internationalising the conflict in the balkan powder keg. and all the evidence suggests that if there is no quick, determined action by the european union, mr commissioner, there could be a second disaster at europe's borders. because of course the ukrainian catastrophe affects us all, but there is a problem of security, of credibility. we must therefore clarify our own position, and that can only be the territorial integrity of bosnia. we must then ascertain serbia's intentions - i saw that the serbian president had encouraged republika srpska to participate in the collegial institutions of bosnia. finally, we must find a way out from above, because europe cannot afford to sit idly by. she can't procrastinate. our safety is at stake.
mr. chairman, i want to share with you here a positive story from bosnia and herzegovina regarding the protection of the human and constitutional rights of citizens. in addition to the fact that more than a year ago the constitutional court of bih declared the obligation to wear masks and the restriction of movement unconstitutional, we also have new decisions. on 23 february this year, the constitutional court of bih made a decision on the appeal of lawyer ajanović declaring unconstitutional the covid certificates and declaring unconstitutional the mandatory vaccination introduced by narrow segments of the executive power. this was decided by the grand chamber of the constitutional court and three international judges. the court even criticized the parliament for allowing the executive to allow the violation of the rule of law and democracy in the country. according to the court's decision, those who disobey this decision should be prosecuted under the criminal law with a sentence of six months to five years. the norwegian code and council of europe resolution 2361 are also accepted as arguments. the constitutional court ordered that the public authorities must immediately comply with the decision and bring their actions into line with the constitution and the european convention on human rights. this is a victory against segregation and discrimination and a testament to what people can do when they come together. i congratulate bosnia and herzegovina on this example of the protection of human and constitutional rights from which all of europe can learn.
mr president, vice-president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the stability of bosnia and herzegovina is essential for the maintenance of peace and security in the region of south-east europe. in order to ensure stability in that state, the priority is to overcome the political crisis in which the croats, as a constituent people, are imposed illegitimate representatives at the level of the presidency of bih and the house of peoples of the parliament of the federation of bih. this is possible, only and exclusively, by a rapid amendment of the electoral law that will ensure the equality of the croatian people in bih, who, colleagues, are denied the political right that is not denied to practically any other people in europe - to choose their political representatives. this right was recognised by a decision of the constitutional court of bih, which, unfortunately, is not applicable. it is therefore essential that electoral reforms ensure legitimate representation in all three constituent peoples in an equal manner, as is the case in belgium, and put an end to the hegemony of the largest people. it is scandalous that some members here in parliament are denying this fundamental right which is also enjoyed by people in belgium, for example, and by people in germany. i will repeat this time, as i have said many times from this platform, the question of protecting the croats in bosnia and herzegovina, who are practically all citizens of the european union, is the question of preserving fundamental european values such as the rule of law, but also the key to the stability of this part of europe.
mr president, commissioner, the war in ukraine has exposed the structural weaknesses of the european union in a sector as critical as energy. for years, instead of moving towards greater independence, we have been moving towards increasing dependence. and now we have the highest prices in the world. gas prices have risen by up to 400% in recent months, and are already a stifling cost to industry, businesses and households. we must act immediately, starting with lowering prices. we have room for manoeuvre by reducing vat, electricity taxes or eliminating special levies. we must immediately, as soon as possible, diversify the sources of supply territorially and develop new interconnection projects for gas and hydrogen. the commission should extend the list of projects of common interest to include the step project between the iberian peninsula and france. in short, it is imperative to build an interconnected europe that allows the free movement of gas and electricity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the spiral of gas prices is becoming more and more an unbearable emergency for the budgets of middle-class households and for the production of certain industrial sectors, which are in danger of suspending their activities with serious damage to the continental economy and to the productive capacity of our continent. this calls for bold action. the commission is doing this, and you must do it even more, madam commissioner, by addressing the mechanisms of price formation - a very uncomfortable subject but one that must be tackled - which today is anchored to the marginal price of gas by a spiral that, in the end, no longer has any reference to the underlying value, that is, the exchange value of the commodity. we must have the courage to act at european level, that is, at union level, on common stocks and common purchases, if we want to reduce dependence and reduce costs, and we must find resources, because these are not zero-cost interventions and, if the resources are not in the budget, we must find mechanisms such as sure, which have had a good response from the market and have given a little oxygen to the initiative of the member states.
mr president, commissioner simson, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago a megawatt hour of gas cost 17 euros, today it is 295. in the delta between 17 and 295 there is the russian invasion and the crisis that has plunged many of our businesses, which were recovering from the pandemic, and that of many families who do not have money to pay for heating and gas. it is therefore good that the commission has just published a communication setting out common european action to deal with this situation. security of supply, economic and environmental sustainability, energy are the main objectives, especially if we want to become independent from russia and send a clear political message. we need instruments to mitigate the price crisis, we need to prepare ourselves today for the coming winter through storage and common purchasing, we need european infrastructure to enable the sharing and diversification of supply, just as we need to set up new renewable energy plants and an ambitious energy efficiency programme. let's move from good intentions to action and allocate the resources today to be free tomorrow.
mr. president, resources have become a political tool. to prevent manipulation, we must redirect investment as quickly as possible to safeguard the independence of the european union. let's really accelerate the reduction of fossil fuels, uranium, coal. more importantly, we must make a principled decision not to pay for russia's war with our money. let's stop importing gas and oil from russia. your analysis, commission, says that the states can do without russian energy until winter. as you know, today it was announced that the united states and the united kingdom have already decided to abandon russian fossil fuels. today, this step is postponed to protect the economy, to protect the people. but what will we have to protect ourselves against if putin's army starts bombing our cities? let's put the money in the most vulnerable groups. share the infrastructure available in your member states, minimising any negative consequences. together we can do this!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that we should not be lighting candles, and a fundamental problem in connection with the rise in energy prices is probably the architecture of the energy market, which, thanks to liberalisation, simply favours speculation and dubious business models. we must act in the short term, namely by combating energy poverty through social tariffs, free energy quotas and the prohibition of power cuts. but we also need to take a long-term view - rethinking europe's electricity and gas markets and clearly shifting towards renewable energy. that doesn't mean we're replacing one gas with another, as long as it's not russian! this can't be the way! we must also discuss the marginal cost model, for example. this must be examined because it allows large corporations to make huge profits at the expense of consumers. and we have to understand that energy prices are a social problem. what we also need is a right to energy, for all.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, the price of energy rarely, if ever, matches the price of its production and distribution. they depend mostly on geopolitics and the wars that are started. we had almost the same gasoline and diesel prices when oil was $120 a barrel and when it was $40 a barrel. wars bring enormous profits to some of the oil industry groups. it happened now. just as fake and real pandemics bring huge profits to the pharmaceutical industry, so wars bring huge profits to the energy industry. it will be so today and it will be so forever because wars are constantly being created and constantly being invented.
mr. chairman, congratulations to our rapporteurs irene and gwendoline for doing a great job, and to all the other colleagues who have contributed to this report. it is no small task to look at all the relevant topics within gender equality and give us a comprehensive overview of our institution's position in this area, while giving a wider social context. what i can stress further, and what is apparent from the report, is that there is a lot of work ahead of us and we cannot be satisfied with the current situation. i particularly emphasise the call for gender-sensitive budgeting. nothing we want to achieve is possible without adequate allocation of resources. we cannot stand here month after month condemning violence against women, railing against the lack of access to decision-making processes, or being angry about the lack of a mechanism to suppress the gender pay gap, without, as one of the basic prerequisites, providing the means to change all of that. we should also not forget the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on gender equality and this should always be emphasised. and it's incredible that, for example, the femm committee's requirement that every national recovery plan must have a chapter on gender equality has not been met. there can be no recovery of society, the economy and the european community without full implementation of the principle of gender equality. and as long as half of our society is considered secondary, and we often hear this said about women, we have no european future.
madam president, we are receiving many accusations from ukraine, including from president zelensky himself, that the west has left them in the lurch. for years, zelensky has heard words of support and encouragement and promises of joining nato and the european union. and now that it's under russian attack, except for some weapons and equipment, the west is doing nothing because it doesn't want to risk world war iii. wasn't it the same with georgia, years of promises of encouragement and support, but when it came to the russian intervention in georgia itself, it was left alone. there are sanctions, of course. the west is prepared to kick russia out of swift, for which they have an alternative, sanction russian cats, vodka, cancel cross-border cooperation of national parks, sanction tchaikovsky and dostoevsky, who have nothing to do with this war. but serious sanctions, oil, gas, nuclear fuel, the west is very very restrained and continues to de facto finance russia. what i have to mention is the latest information that has appeared in both american and chinese media about several dozen bio-laboratories on the territory of ukraine that are under the direct control of the us department of defense. in the interest of the public, i'm asking for clarification on what's there, if anything, that's been developed because we don't need a new wuhan.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the transparency of the democratic system is crucial because it allows citizens to participate in decision-making. transparency is at the heart of all european policies, and among its most important elements is the right of citizens to request and obtain access to documents held by the european institutions. in principle, all documents of an institution should be made available to the public. on the other hand, certain documents should be treated in a special way because of their highly sensitive content. in this context, certain public and private interests should be specifically protected by way of derogation, as provided for in the regulation on public access to eu institutions' documents. the institutions shall have the right, where necessary, to protect their consultations and deliberations in order to ensure the performance of their tasks. the current legal framework of the regulation on public access to documents of the institutions is generally satisfactory, but we need to make further efforts to ensure that decisions are taken as openly as possible and as close to the citizen as possible. openness allows citizens to participate more actively in the decision-making process and ensures that the administration acquires greater legitimacy and is more efficient and accountable to eu citizens. in that sense, i think the commission should be commended in general for its transparency after all these figures we have heard today. of course, when it comes to transparency, there's been a lot of talk about joint vaccine procurement. i would point out that this has accelerated the process of developing and making available vaccines, and the union has achieved a better negotiating position and we have got more vaccines under better conditions and at a better price. also, joint procurement has avoided competition between member states, allowing smaller and less developed countries equal access to the vaccine, and i think that this whole process can indeed be characterized as a success. of course, in case of any uncertainties and doubts - everything that exists needs to be clarified, but without calling into question the whole procedure and i really look forward to the commission providing an answer to these dilemmas related to smes. finally, i would like to point out that the european union, led by the commission, has done the most important thing: it has successfully responded to this pandemic. equal access to vaccines for all european citizens is ensured, and this sends a strong message of unity and solidarity at european level.
mr president, transparency and public access to documents is at a low level in europe. the corona crisis, unfortunately, showed us that very clearly. it failed with regard to the purchase agreements for covid vaccines. why cannot we, as meps, have access to the purchase agreements? first, it was in a committee: we in the envi committee had a chance to see the agreements but were not allowed to scan, copy, take a photo or tell anybody about it. this is ridiculous and was a humiliation of members of the european parliament. then it was really published, but it was published in a redacted version, leaving everything important covered in black ink. at the end there were text messages between the ceo of pfizer and the president of the commission, and even the european ombudsman had to take action on this. one could get the impression, from the media, that they are more in a friendly relationship than in a professional one. instead of being a role model, the commission is clearly mocking the citizens.
dear chairman, commissioners, colleagues, the cathedral of st. james in šibenik, the church of st. krševan in zadar, the historic centre of dubrovnik, the banjski dvor in zagreb - all together, in 1861, an immovable cultural monument was destroyed due to the serbian aggression against the republic of croatia, the aim of which was to abolish the croatian national identity, built over centuries. that is why we in croatia know how important it is to persevere in protecting cultural heritage, especially in wartime circumstances. unfortunately, we are witnessing a continuing policy of erasure and denial of armenian cultural heritage in nagorno-karabakh and its surroundings, in violation of international law and the recent decision of the international court of justice. this is another case of the persecution of christians and suppression of their religious identity that is, unfortunately, the case in many parts of the world. globally, in 2019, more than 245 million christians were victims of severe persecution, 40 million more than in 2018. this means that one in nine christians globally is experiencing persecution, and this is very, very unfortunately not talked about. i therefore welcome the motion for a resolution by which the european parliament strongly opposes the denial of armenian cultural heritage in and around nagorno-karabakh. ladies and gentlemen, the destruction of the cultural heritage in nagorno-karabakh must stop as soon as possible.
madam president, the aggression against ukraine has marked the beginning of a new era for our entire continent, an era of great geopolitical change, but also an era of uncertainty. we had an example of this uncertainty, unfortunately, two weeks ago in zagreb, my hometown, when a soviet-made military drone, over 14 meters long, over six tons heavy, crashed in zagreb, in a populated area, in the immediate vicinity of a student residence, and fortunately there were no fatalities. but regardless, this dangerous, unusual incident does a pretty good job of showing how close we are to war, and unfortunately, closer than we ever think. and that's why it's time to wake up from some kind of limbo. it's time for unity. it is time for loyalty in these most delicate moments for the whole european union, for the whole nato, but also for the whole european civilization because this is one serious reminder that freedom and peace even on the european continent can no longer be taken for granted and that we will have to be able to fight for freedom and peace here in europe, but also in croatia.
in writing. the war in ukraine has brought the european union and the entire western alliance closer together than ever before. as a sign of this, us president biden will attend the eu summit tomorrow. the western alliance must do everything it can to put an end to putin's ruthless war crimes in ukraine. security policy cooperation must continue both within nato and beyond. the eu should continue to provide ukraine with more material and military assistance. the eu is now required to take a decision on the fifth round of sanctions against russia. you have to tighten the screws. the sanctions against both russia and belarus must be strengthened and extended to the energy sector, which supports the russian economy. and the rest of the banks have to be unplugged from swift. it is intolerable that we continue to finance putin's war by importing hundreds of millions of dollars of fossil fuels from russia every day. member states must stop importing russian gas, oil and coal. the commission's repowereu communication and presentations on gas security of supply and other contingency measures are welcome. they must be implemented quickly. the high energy prices must be responded to primarily by action at national level. no action shall be taken that would cause disruption to the emissions trading system or the electricity market. in the longer term, the key is to accelerate the transition to our own low-carbon energy solutions, including nuclear power. the russian aggression in ukraine has demonstrated the need for closer cooperation in the european union's defence and security policy. a strategic compass will give you a good guide. they must now be put into practice and strengthen the eu's role as the european pillar of nato.
the house is adjourned for a few minutes and will resume with a speech by prime minister of canada justin trudeau. (the sitting was suspended at 5.36 p.m.)
let me welcome the canadian prime minister, justin trudeau. thank you for joining us here today. le canada est un allié, un ami et un partenaire précieux. nous sommes des garants solides des valeurs de démocratie, d’état de droit et de paix – des valeurs que nous partageons. the enduring relationship between the european union and canada has withstood the test of time and only grows stronger. geography may divide us, but there is no ocean that can part our shared values, shared outlook and shared way of life. through our strategic partnership, and the comprehensive economic and trade agreement, our privileged relationship has reached new heights, but today we are facing a threat to all of us. we did not provoke putin’s illegal invasion of ukraine, we did not invite this confrontation between peace and war, but we share a commitment to solidarity with ukraine and the millions of people forced to flee putin’s bombs. there is so much at stake. no one knows this better than canada, that is home to one of the largest ukrainian communities in the world. the core values we all share are under attack. the democratic world order and the peace we have known are under threat. scenes we thought were confined to the dark chapters of our history books have returned. the fight of the ukrainian people is a fight for freedom, democracy and our way of life. we cannot leave them alone and we will not leave them alone. with millions forced to flee, the world is again staring at an ever-worsening humanitarian crisis that we must be ready – and we must be willing – to face. canada is a world leader in welcoming and resettling people in search of a life away from horror and we must rely on your expertise and your solidarity now again. it is really time to come together, now like never before. ‘whatever it takes’ means continuing to match massive sanctions with aid, military equipment and financial support. but it must also mean real humanitarian corridors, urgent relocation, air bridges and a redoubling of efforts to seek a ceasefire. that is the response that all our citizens – whether in canada or europe – expect. that is the response worthy of our place in history. this is our generation’s moment to prove we can live up to the promise of the world we inherited. we can give ukrainian children, women and men a chance at a future without fear, but we can only do this if the world acts together. dear prime minister trudeau, thank you for being here with us, for reaffirming your great country’s commitment to democracy, to equality, to multilateralism and to canada’s proud record of defending our shared humanity. mr prime minister, the floor is yours.
prime minister of canada. – madam president, i would like to thank you, david mcallister, chair of the committee on foreign affairs, and stéphanie yon—courtin, chair of the delegation for relations with canada. distinguished parliamentarians, ladies and gentlemen, it is a privilege to be here in brussels with you all. avant de commencer, j’aimerais d’abord exprimer mes condoléances à la suite du décès en début d’année du président sassoli. c’est une grande perte pour votre parlement et pour l’europe. j’aimerais également prendre un moment pour adresser mes condoléances aux proches des victimes de la tragédie de la louvière ainsi qu’à tous ceux dont la vie a été bouleversée par ces événements. nos pensées et notre amitié sont avec la belgique dans ces moments difficiles. i first addressed the european parliament in strasbourg in 2017. it was the first time a canadian prime minister addressed your parliament. back then, this parliament saw me as someone new on the world stage. we got to work tackling progressive issues, building the things that we thought mattered. we could see that something was lurking off on the horizon, something shadowy, something that was threatening. we didn’t look close enough. when i spoke to this parliament five years ago, i spoke about making multilateralism work for the middle class and those working hard to join it, so that economic frustrations don’t become fertile ground for populism, nativism, protectionism and the polarisation towards more extreme political views. well, today we are staring these forces in the face as they threaten the peace, justice, truth, democracy and stability of our world. we have a choice about what we do next. since 2017, the world has changed a lot. a global pandemic has taken the lives over of over six million people and disrupted the lives of everyone else. a global recession saw millions lose their jobs, with many economies still struggling to bounce back. it is a world that is no longer forecasting, but living, the dangers of climate change. there is a growing distrust of governments and facts, and a weakening of democratic institutions. we saw one of our staunchest guarantors of the rules—based order choosing for four years to step away from nato and away from multilateralism, and now we see putin’s criminal invasion of a sovereign, independent and democratic ukraine. people have a real and deep sense of uncertainty about what the future holds. these are anxious times, and people are looking for leadership and solutions. unfortunately, we’re seeing a rise in cynical populists who are trying to exploit these anxieties. they pretend to have easy solutions that play on people’s fears. even in canada, where 90% of people are vaccinated and our motto as a country is ‘peace, order and good government’, we saw anti—vaccine and anti-government protests devolve into illegal occupations of our communities and blockades of our borders. the leaders of those convoys were effective in turning citizens with real anxieties against the system best—suited to allay those concerns. but democracy isn’t a game, and there just aren’t easy solutions to the big, complex problems we are all facing. but that doesn’t mean that the way forward isn’t clear. there is no greater clarity than the will of the people who want better for themselves and their children at home, and no stronger defence against destructive forces from the outside, from outside our democracies, than the unwavering unity of like—minded partners. au cours des quatre-vingts dernières années, nous avons collectivement établi et renforcé une série de règles et d’institutions afin d’accroître la stabilité et la prévisibilité dans les affaires internationales. nous l’avons fait pour protéger les gens, pour leur offrir les meilleures perspectives de paix, pour défendre leur dignité et leurs droits inaliénables et pour faire en sorte qu’ils soient libres de choisir leur propre avenir. aujourd’hui, ces règles et institutions sont ouvertement menacées. vladimir poutine a enfreint les préceptes les plus fondamentaux du droit international, et il tue maintenant les civils innocents en bombardant des hôpitaux et des immeubles résidentiels. ce mépris flagrant des lois et de la vie humaine constitue une menace immense pour l’europe et pour le monde entier. canada, the eu and all of our partners and allies are facing a defining moment. we cannot fail. we must meet this moment. i speak to you today no longer as someone quite so new. in fact, i may now be one of the longer—serving progressive leaders around. i’m certainly not going to pretend to have all the answers, but what i do know is that there is work that lies before us as thoughtful leaders, as people focused on the short— and long—term well-being of all our citizens, and as people committed to democracy and the values that underpin them. that work is more important than ever. putin thought democracy was weak. he saw our disagreements and debates as weakness, but what he has never understood is that the rigours of debate, that forceful civic engagement, is what makes us strong, and that democracy at its best will always be stronger than authoritarianism. if we’re going to be honest, and we need to be honest in this place, we haven’t always been at our best these past years. putin thought we were divided. he thought he could weaken the eu and nato. he miscalculated, and he is seeing it backfire. nato and the eu are now more resolved and united than ever, because all of us in this room who are committed to democracy know in our bones that democracy didn’t happen by accident, and it will not continue without deliberate, mindful effort. mes amis, je veux être bien clair. les européens, y compris nos alliés en europe de l’est, peuvent compter sur l’amitié et le soutien total du canada. le canada dirige le groupement tactique de la présence avancée rehaussée de l’otan en lettonie, mission qui regroupe dix pays de l’otan. depuis cinq ans, des centaines de militaires canadiens sont déployés à des milliers de kilomètres de chez eux pour se positionner à 200 kilomètres de la frontière russe. ils sont déployés en lettonie, parce que ce qui est important pour la sécurité de l’europe l’est aussi pour la sécurité du canada. récemment, nous avons annoncé que nous doublions notre déploiement dans le cadre de l’otan pour les années à venir. ces militaires ne défendent pas seulement la lettonie et l’europe de l’est; ils défendent notre liberté, notre sécurité et toutes nos démocraties. we cannot let ukraine down. they are counting on us, so let’s use all the tools we have at our disposal. president zelenskyy and i have been talking often about the strong ties between our countries. canada, as mentioned, is home to the second largest ukrainian community in the world after russia, so we must all collectively step up to provide humanitarian aid, to support families affected by this war, and already start thinking about investing to rebuild ukraine afterwards. we must all continue to send military equipment and lethal aid to help ukrainians in their heroic defence, not just of their lands, but of all of the principles that defend ours. we must continue to impose unprecedented sanctions on putin and his enablers in russia and belarus, increasing the pressure as much as we can. we must ensure that the decision to invade a sovereign, independent country is understood to be a strategic failure that carries with it ruinous costs for putin and russia. putin’s attack on ukraine is an attack on the values that form the pillars of all democracies. we have a responsibility to make the case to people about why these values matter so much, not just to ukrainians, but to us all. we must recommit ourselves to the work of strengthening our democracies and demonstrate the principled leadership citizens everywhere are looking for. that leadership means reinforcing the things our citizens have in common, rather than playing to their differences. the task before us is not small, but given the right tools, we can do it. we should all be reassured of how much of this work is already underway in this place and in parliaments like it across europe and around the world. au canada, notre gouvernement élabore actuellement une nouvelle mesure législative pour lutter contre les méfaits en ligne. cette année, le canada assume la présidence de la coalition pour la liberté en ligne, et nous comptons mettre l’accent sur la protection des droits de la personne, l’inclusion et la diversité dans l’espace numérique. ici, à l’union européenne, votre devise est «unie dans la diversité». au canada, la diversité est aussi au cœur de notre identité. bien sûr, nous savons qu’il y a toujours plus de travail à faire, mais sur le plan de la réconciliation avec les peuples autochtones, de la lutte contre le racisme systémique, de l’égalité des sexes et de la défense des communautés lgbtq2, nous faisons énormément de progrès. que ce soit en assurant la mise en œuvre de la déclaration des nations unies sur les droits des peuples autochtones ou en investissant pour soutenir les entrepreneurs des communautés noires, nous donnons des outils pour la croissance économique à ceux qui, trop souvent, ont été laissés pour compte. governments can and should play a positive role in people’s lives. in canada, like in many european countries, we made massive investments to respond to the covid—19 pandemic. it was the right thing to do to protect our people, and it was the necessary thing to do to ensure a strong and robust economic recovery. we know that when we invest in people, including in the most vulnerable, and when we grow the middle class and make life more affordable for everyone, not only do individuals benefit, but our entire country and the foundations of our democracy also benefit. que ce soit les conséquences immédiates de l’insécurité alimentaire, de l’inflation et des prix élevés de l’essence, ou que ce soit les conséquences à long terme du changement climatique ou de la pandémie, les démocraties doivent faire de leur mieux pour engager les conversations difficiles et nécessaires avec leurs citoyens afin de trouver des solutions. en matière de lutte contre le changement climatique, la collaboration entre le canada et l’union européenne continue d’être essentielle. notre travail se poursuit pour accélérer la transition vers une énergie verte et renouvelable, pour respecter nos engagements de la cop 26 et pour sécuriser nos chaînes d’approvisionnement, y compris pour les minéraux critiques. il faut continuer d’agir ensemble pour bâtir un avenir plus propre et une économie plus résiliente. canada and european countries also share the goals of reducing poverty and inequality while growing the middle class. we share aspirations for a better, safer and cleaner future. progressive trade agreements, like ceta, are helping our economies grow and creating good jobs while protecting high standards for workers, consumers and the environment. our ability to pull together, despite differences, and deliver for people really matters, and i thank you all for that. with the longest coastline in the world, canada’s shores reach out into the atlantic, pacific and arctic oceans. our connections with the whole of the americas is strong. we’re one of the most globally connected partners at the un, with memberships in nato, the g7, the g20, the arctic council, apec, the oas, the commonwealth and la francophonie. we all have a lot of work to do, and collaboration will be key to success towards building a better future for our kids and our grandkids. it will require constant efforts, but i’m confident that we are up to the task. i’m confident in all of us here today. i’m confident in the resilience of our institutions, and mostly i’m confident in our citizens. i can say that that because of what i have witnessed over the past four weeks. the resolve of our united response to this unacceptable invasion has been stronger than anything putin expected – and not just from governments, but from citizens in all our countries. it’s that spirit and resolve that we must take forward with us. the european union has mobilised to defend democracy, and, as always, you can count on the friendship and full support of canada every step of the way. ensemble, nous devons soutenir les démocraties partout à travers le monde, y compris les plus fragiles, et lutter contre l’autoritarisme grâce à plus d’investissements et en nous engageant pour montrer l’exemple. nous devons appuyer les gens courageux comme le président zelensky et les ukrainiens qui luttent pour leurs droits. chacun de nous doit poursuivre son travail afin d’améliorer la démocratie dans son propre pays. five years ago, we saw the storm clouds on the horizon. but today, we are clear-eyed. continuons à combattre les mensonges par la vérité, la peur par les faits et la division par l’unité. as long as we don’t take our democracy for granted, as long as we keep working every day to make it better, as long as our partnerships are strong, we can be confident in the future. in the words of volodymyr zelenskyy, light will win over darkness. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
thank you so much, prime minister trudeau, for those powerful words and messages. we will now hear from representatives of all political groups in this house, starting with the ppe group.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i should like to welcome prime minister trudeau. welcome to europe. thank you for addressing the people of europe today and thank you very much for choosing the european parliament to address the people of europe today. canadian soldiers have fought for democracy and freedom in europe throughout the first world war and throughout the second world war. we have seen, we have known, we have felt, that we can rely on the people of canada and on canada when it comes to defending freedom and democracy in europe. and today, prime minister, you came again to europe to defend a european country, and for this, we all in europe and all of us in the free world say thank you. the partnership between canada and the european union is a long one, is a strong one. it is based on democracy. it is based on the rule of law. it is based on equality. it is based on the freedom of speech. and now is the time for all free nations to stand up in the name of these values, to be united and defend ukraine. because defending ukraine means defending europe and it means defending the free world. the rules that our western societies are built on are good for the people, and now is the time to reject the habits and the lack of rules on which the regime of vladimir putin is based on. now is the time for all of us to say no to threat, to exclusion, to hate, to fear, to intimidation because we have all seen that after the people of central and eastern europe have defeated communism 30 years ago, choosing transatlantic values, choosing the european union, choosing nato membership, brought safety, stability and prosperity to central and eastern european countries. and if this is what the people of ukraine choose for their country, it is our duty as european union and as canada to stand by the side of the people of ukraine together. this is the first and most important thing that we have to do: to answer the call of the people of ukraine. the second thing is to be united. and i believe this is what citizens in europe and in canada expect of us, because we have seen people in helsinki, in tallinn, in prague, in berlin, in paris, in warsaw, going on the streets in defending ukraine, exactly as people of canada have gone to the streets, to montreal, to hamilton, to edmonton, to toronto and to canada in the past weeks. we have to be united, this is what the people expect of us and we have shown unity already in the last weeks by acting together when it came to sanctions. but i believe dear colleagues, i believe, prime minister, as you have also said, we have to do more when it comes to sanctions. maximum support to ukraine, but also maximum possible cost for the russian federation. we have to enlarge the list of russian politicians, enlarge the list of russian businesspeople and oligarchs who we sanctioned. we have to tell them very clearly: no more skiing in the alps, no more shopping in paris or vienna, no more sunbathing in nice or on the coasts of europe as long as the regime which they are supporting in russia is invading a free country. we have to close loopholes. we have to forbid access to public procurement for russian companies, be it private or public, here in the european union and also in canada. and we have to reduce our dependency on russian fossil fuels as much as possible and as soon as possible. we have to be honest and transparent also to the people in our countries in telling them that defending democracy costs, but not defending democracy would cost even more. now is the time for leadership. it is the time for unity. it is the time for defending the european values, the transatlantic values, the alliances that we are together in, which have proven the test of time, they stood the test of time. thank you once again very much for coming to europe today, for speaking to us in the parliament, for showing your solidarity. it is always good to know that we have friends in these times.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for his report and for the work he has done. you stand before the heart of a european democracy which can and must feel its own, because it was also built on the courage of canadians who sacrificed their lives on this continent eighty years ago to bring democracy and freedom back to europe. it was only later, with the fall of the berlin wall in 1989, that we entered a horizon of hope that we thought would never go back in time. we felt that we would always live in peace, based on multilateralism and without satellite countries or nuclear threats. today, putin's criminal war on ukraine has changed the civil and political order. this imperialist barbarity takes us back to the struggle between democracies and autocracies of the last century, as if we had learned nothing from the suffering of that 'world of yesterday' of which stefan zweig spoke. the tragedy in ukraine has spurred an unthinkable common response in canada, the united states and the european union, with which we are going further than we did in 2014 after the annexation of crimea. together we have turned putin into an international pariah with serious damage to his economy. and together we must and can do much more: cut off russia's access to cryptocurrency exchanges, pursue tax havens that protect oligarchs and strengthen our cooperation. because if we want to free ourselves forever from tyrannies, we must together lead a global transition, also based on renewable energy. the outbreak of war in europe has exposed the need to provide the european union with its own resources. for the first time we have agreed to provide one billion euros in military aid to a third country whose democratic values are the last frontier with the aggressor. to stop putin, canada and the european allies must also meet our nato commitments, including a 2% defense spending of gdp. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on asylum, and the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on asylum. this situation demands that we rise to the occasion and fight inequalities at the heart of the transatlantic agenda. because only a social model based on equal opportunities will be able to deactivate the far right that putin is supporting on both sides of the atlantic. mr trudeau, if we maintain transatlantic unity on this long and difficult road, putin will give in and spend his last days, we hope, before the international criminal court. history has taught us that no war of occupation is won, no matter how powerful the invading army. the spirit of 1989 will live on thanks to the transatlantic strength and courage of the ukrainian people.
for the greens/efa group. madam president, i would like to welcome the prime minister to the european parliament. canada has been a close partner and friend of the european union, and also of ukraine, for many decades. on behalf of the green group, i would like to thank you and the many canadians who have shown clarity and determination in supporting ukraine in these dramatic hours. we know that this is not just a war between two countries, but a brutal attack on an international order based on law and democracy, not on the force of bombs. as we speak, putin is committing war crimes in ukraine, bombing kindergartens and hospitals, and we must support the ukrainian people's struggle against this invasion, united as we have done. the european union and canada are called, mr prime minister, to work together to defend, in the coming decades, a global architecture based on international law and the defence of human rights in the face of the growing threats of authoritarianism. i would like to thank you, prime minister, particularly for opening the doors to the ukrainian refugees, helping those who are most in need. i would like to wholeheartedly thank the canadian people for that. but here in europe, dear prime minister, we have also made mistakes. putin's fossil-fueled war must wake us up. our energy transition is today not only an urgency for tackling climate change, but also a matter of security and international stability. climate change is one of the biggest threats that humanity has faced in the last centuries, and we need to act urgently. also in canada, prime minister, where fossil-fuel infrastructure is still being built, where net zero is only planned to be reached by 2050 without any intermediate target, where tar sands, one of the most climate-polluting sources of oil, have been expanded. you may allow me, friends and partners need also to be honest and frank to each other. our collective addiction to fossil fuel is a security risk now. in europe and in canada, it is a destabilizing factor. it is a threat to peace. and canada and europe should urgently change course of action if we want to abide by the commitments of the paris agreement. it's very good to be strong supporters of multilateralism, as we are, and believe strongly in multilateralism, but we should live up to the promises, then, of the paris agreement and move forward to action. it is our responsibility. it is your responsibility, prime minister. we are hundreds of millions of people to build another future in europe and canada. in the face of this brutal attack in ukraine, in the face of an authoritarian backlash in the world, let's work together. and let's work together, not building our societies in old, short-sighted policies, but really based on our common wish to live in a peaceful world and on a habitable planet. thank you very much, prime minister, for your solidarity and for being with us today.
in the name of the id group. thank you, mr president, and welcome to the european parliament, mr trudeau. it is a great opportunity for this parliament to debate with you on the eve of such important meetings which need to show how the west is united in giving a coordinated and efficient response to the russian invasion of ukraine. the european union is moving towards a unity which, up to now, has been in concert with its own and many other important nations of the world. mr president, i would like to take this opportunity in your presence to remind you that after years of crisis we need to ensure that the atlantic alliance is strengthened not only in a period of crisis and emergency such as the present one, but in a constant and constructive way, and above all in the original sense of the alliance, which is a deterrent and not an offensive one. the european union must therefore give greater weight to the role of nato as a union of forces that pursue the path of peace in contrast to those who continue to endanger common security today. just yesterday, ukrainian president zelensky, speaking in my country's parliament, the italian parliament, called on the european union to make effective use of the instruments of diplomacy and dialogue, and in so doing he implicitly reaffirmed the very principles which inspire the very way in which the atlantic alliance operates. i have another point to make, president trudeau. it will not have escaped you, of course, that the world is rapidly shifting its axis towards new geopolitical balances. we have had, unfortunately, recent proof of this by looking at the vote in the united nations general assembly on the resolution condemning the russian invasion. the western powers, on the one hand, have spoken out without hesitation and in unison, but a large number of states, the most populous, those which possess the greatest part of the planet's resources, have wanted to send a different signal, one which goes far beyond the text of the resolution. a signal that must be understood in its deepest meaning, and i hope that this will be a central theme of your debates in the coming days. the conflict in ukraine is putting us in front of new important choices and new challenges. we are now facing a world which is no longer based on the western model alone, but is now multipolar again. this does not mean that the west should not be the reference point, but that it must find its conviction and its strength to prove that democratic models are the winners and that violence, oppression and dictatorships can never be the solution. to do this, we must fully reclaim our values and identity on the political, social, cultural and even economic levels, with those who believe in the pride of a development model that is not based on war and oppression but on respect for peoples and their freedoms, values that we cannot question now or ever. in the face of this madness, and i will close, mr president, it is time for rationality, and we really hope that this is the fundamental principle that will guide your choices in these dramatic and important days. good luck because we need strong western leadership to bring peace and balance to our continent and the world.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, welcome prime minister trudeau, ukrainian president zelensky, first in this house and then in the canadian parliament, stressed that ukrainians are defending the values that form the pillars of all free and democratic countries and that the unity of these countries is now more important than ever. that is why i believe, mr prime minister, that your presence here today is of great symbolic value and testifies to the strong bond and spirit of cooperation between your country, the european union and the various member states. in 2014, canada was one of the first countries to support the kiev government and ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, and i hope that he will be able to give us a reply to the question put by mr de gucht. the russian-ukrainian crisis has highlighted the need for the european union to re-engage and invest in defence and security, but also to renew and strengthen cooperation with our traditional partners such as canada, to which we are linked not only by our common membership of nato but also by bilateral agreements and ties. the european union and nato have, more than ever in recent weeks, taken coordinated and effective action in response to russian aggression and in support of ukraine and its people, demonstrating unprecedented unity and determination, from which we should learn lessons to face future challenges, not only from a military point of view but also with regard to cyber security, strengthening intelligence capacity and countering terrorism and hybrid threats. transatlantic relations and eu-nato cooperation, in full respect of the principles laid down in the treaties and those agreed by the european council, are essential elements on which we must act together with greater unity and complementarity if we are to successfully meet the common geopolitical and security challenges we will face in the coming years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, prime minister trudeau, freedom, the right to choose, the right to life and health, the right to work, for many of us these are fundamental human rights for which millions of citizens in europe and the world have laid down their lives. to defend our rights and the rights of our children, which we have earned for centuries, many of us, including myself, are willing to risk our freedom and lay down our lives. sadly, those who trample on these fundamental values are also among us today. canada, once a symbol of the modern world, has, under the leadership of your quasi-liberal boot, in recent months become a symbol of violations of basic human rights and civil liberties. we've seen horses trample women, single parents have their bank accounts frozen so they can't pay for their children's schooling, they can't pay for their medication, they can't pay for their electricity and water bills, they can't pay for their home mortgage payments. for you, it may be liberal methods, but for many citizens of the world, it's dictatorship of the worst kind. be assured that the citizens of the world, united, can stop any regime that wants to destroy the freedom of its citizens, whether it's bombs or harmful pharmaceuticals.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the situation in ukraine is dramatic, not only for the lives of the people, but also for agriculture. ukrainians are fighting for their freedom by day and for food security by night. none of us can imagine the suffering that is happening there. and we have to help. we have to help where we can help. the global effects of the war on the security of supply are also significant. the world food programme is warning of a famine crisis like we've never seen before. in the present situation, we don't have a choice between bread and cake. many people have understood that the key now is to provide other regions of the world with the raw materials they need. we have a global responsibility, especially to our neighbourhood. i therefore welcome the commission's proposals to give priority to food security and production. but we also have to think about 2023 - not just for ourselves, for our food security in europe, but for our partners, and against putin, who is using hunger as a weapon. i repeat in conclusion that every tonne of wheat in europe that is grown more is a tonne against putin and for democracy and freedom.
madam president, commissioner, we are in the midst of a debate in which we wanted to ask for an urgent action plan in the face of russia's invasion of ukraine. the first is obviously to meet the humanitarian demand of the ukrainians, of course, but secondly we have to ensure the food supply in europe, of course, and also in the rest of the world. and so we welcome this commission action plan, which is on the right track. i congratulate the commission on presenting some interesting measures, such as putting ices zones into production, and activating the crisis reserve. more measures will probably have to be taken, commissioner, for all sectors: farmers, fishermen, livestock farmers and aquaculture farmers. the four sectors are equally affected and we must therefore guarantee that supply. the problem here is the prices and costs that farmers are suffering, which make farming unsustainable. if we do not help the farmers, if we do not help the fishermen, if we do not help the farmers and the fish farmers, they will probably abandon their farms and abandon their boats, because the current production costs cannot be maintained. so i think that's a good range of measures, but we'll have to take more. and now i put to you a question on the motion for a resolution: we must unanimously adopt the motion for a resolution tomorrow, the groups which have not signed it must join us and we must leave other things behind. the question here is not to question the european green deal, but to increase flexibility in meeting the requirements of food supply; the rest are political strategies which we must not fall into.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this war is already causing hunger, speculation and staggering prices. the most vulnerable families are the most at risk. but what are parliament, the commission and the governments concerned about? to feed the animals in the intensive farms! 70% of european agricultural land is already used for the production of animal feed, and yet we are continually importing feed, almost all of it genetically modified, from third countries, fuelling yet another structural dependence after gas. the problem should be obvious: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. to continue this, we now want to go to the ecological areas, use more pesticides, and slow down and delay the implementation of farm to fork and biodiversity strategies. it is no coincidence that the long-awaited nature restoration law has already been postponed. so it is not the time to give in to agrochemical lobbies, but to rethink our food model.
madam president, short-sightedness put us in this position and it certainly won’t get us out of it. the sustainable path was always to produce our food with inputs that are also produced within eu boundaries we control and regulate. we haven’t done that. we became massively dependent on imports of basic inputs such as feed, fertiliser and energy – dependent in many cases on despots. you knew this and you let it happen. now that this supposedly bullet—proof system has collapsed, the very people who created a model dependent on imported inputs are now telling us that the solution to our current crisis is to exhibit even more short-sightedness. you are now saying that we must destroy ecological focus areas in order to feed the world. i can’t go along with such a lie. 62% of the grain in the eu is fed to animals, only 23% to humans. so growing more grain is not about feeding the world. it’s about feeding an intensive meat industry system that isn’t fit for purpose. instead, here today, we should be supporting sustainable livestock production, such as extensively reared suckler beef. we’re not though. why? because even at a time of war, you’re being led by the nose, by industry. disgrace!
madam president, the food problems in ukraine began long before the war, when small countries, with the help of their puppet governments, destroyed their domestic production and agriculture in order to allow rich countries to export their waste, surplus and substandard food, which did not meet the standards even for animal feed, to the countries on the periphery of the continent. people are getting sick from food that you wouldn't want to give to pets in developed countries. croatia is at the top of the cancer list, and this kind of food that we're getting is one of the main reasons for that. i call on the citizens of croatia, but also of all other countries, to reject such policies, to reject such politicians, to look at their children and think about the value of their lives and their future. we still have a chance to save our farms, our grandparents, our homeland. we, as citizens of the periphery of europe, are not anyone's guinea pigs for low-quality products. we have our rights and i call on all citizens to fight together and make big things out of small countries because croatia has all the prerequisites to be successful and food self-sufficient country that has the capacity on its fertile fields to feed 30 million people instead of fearing if we will stay hungry.
dear chairwoman, in the night hours of march 10th this year, just seven minutes after entering croatian airspace, a soviet-made unmanned aircraft crashed in the wider centre of zagreb, fifty metres from the student residence where thousands of students are staying. before entering croatia, the aircraft circled the airspace of romania and hungary for 43 minutes, and came from the territory of ukraine. fortunately, this unfortunate event passed without human casualties, but it exposed the full vulnerability of the european security system. and while it remains to be determined whether this was a mistake, sabotage or intent, it should be made clear that it is unacceptable that this aircraft could move freely through the airspace of nato and eu member states and endanger the lives of citizens, all in the circumstances of a ruthless war on the borders of the eu. i therefore insist on better cooperation between member states in the field of security information exchange, but i am also a strong advocate of strengthening the defence capacity of the european union and all member states, which must primarily be able to protect the lives and property of their citizens. the illusion that someone else will protect us if we're unable to protect ourselves.
the european union is a political force, a political force, a political force, and it is not just a political force, but a political force. that's often justified. brussels bureaucrats often listen to the lobbies of established interests. that is why more and more people are distancing themselves from the eu. this directive seems to be an exception. it is now easier for transport companies to hire lorries across the border and this is sometimes necessary in the event of peak loads and/or equipment falling into disrepair. i say 'seems', because a closer look reveals that there is a limitation in the adjustments. this restriction is in favour of large transport companies and is unnecessary, cumbersome and complicated. in short, it's a pity, but it's a missed opportunity.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the road freight transport sector, which continues to play an important role in the economy of each state, has been affected by the economic downturn and by rising costs, particularly fuel and tolls. the liberalizing and deregulating impulse of the european union's policies in favour of the sacred market is also felt in this sector, by imposing the precariousness of labour relations, by imposing, for example, paid work on the journey, the kilometre and the tonnage, all to the benefit of the large economic groups and their web of interests. the rental of heavy vehicles without drivers is the expression of this process of liberalisation and exploitation. it allows to circumvent the limitations associated with cabotage activities and the posting of motor workers. it is a process of deregulation which is contrary to the rights of workers and which does not solve the major constraints faced by small and mediumsized enterprises in the sector or which depend on it.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the road transport sector, in particular by examining the impact of the amendments on the road transport sector. the current directive provides a minimum level of market openness for the use of such vehicles, as it in fact covers obsolete legal provisions reflecting the former needs of this sector. the existing directive provides for different rules between member states, which lead to numerous restrictions and uncertainties and restricts the use of hired freight vehicles in a member state other than the member state of establishment of the hiring company. i therefore welcome the fact that after five years of interinstitutional negotiations, that legislation will finally be revised. however, legislation is necessary to respond to the real needs of hauliers. the new legislative proposal will contribute to the functioning of the single market and bring greater flexibility for transport undertakings to lease and hire freight vehicles to meet temporary or seasonal peaks in demand and to replace defective vehicles, thereby increasing transport efficiency. the new legal framework will provide carriers across the union with more uniform access to the freight vehicle rental market. in conclusion, i support this legislative proposal because it represents an opportunity to create a level playing field and a fair competition for companies engaged in hiring and transport in the eu.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected, and that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. we know that any such reconciliation reduces paperwork, has greater efficiency, and, of course, saves time. but as a member of the committee on transport, i would like to say one other thing, one other topic, because i am sure that we need a common european policy for the development of autonomous vehicles as well. we urgently need such legislative proposals that apply to the whole of europe, not just to one country individually. otherwise, we will find ourselves in a situation where we pass directive after directive, law after law, and time goes on and on and on. and that's why i want, your honor, to immediately start drafting uniform laws, i would say an umbrella law, to develop rules for driving autonomous vehicles. and yes, europe must be ahead of the competition because, you know, technology doesn't wait, science doesn't stagnate and so let's give a big push to the core economy and innovation and, in essence, our european economy.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, the modern world and the economy cannot exist without a constant supply of energy. unfortunately, in the past, we have witnessed significant manipulation of the price of oil. now i'm going to read you the price of oil over the last 40 years. the price of a barrel, so the prices have been brought down to 2015, the price of a barrel in 1980 103 dollars, 1990 37 dollars, 1998 can you imagine that, 17 dollars and 70 cents, 2008 103 dollars and 70 cents, 2015 51 dollars. what's next is that we don't allow such games and such calculations with the energies of the future. - thank you. - thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank, congratulate the european parliament's negotiating team led by professor krasnodębski and also thank the council. as president of itre, i have led some of the trilogues and i know that it was not easy to find a balance. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new legislation. it is important that the need to continue supporting priority corridors to cover different geographical regions that have been isolated from the rest of the european energy networks, to strengthen existing cross-border interconnections and to ensure security of supply, to support diversification of supply, which is very important in the context of the current war launched by russia, but also to stabilise energy prices, has been understood. we look forward to the sixth list of projects of common interest and want to see in this list the modern projects that will provide the necessary energy mix for 2030 and 2050.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we look back a little, we see that europe's foundations are based on energy. we can talk about the european coal and steel community and then the european atomic energy community and so on. but today, europe is more dependent on russian energy than ever before. and it raises, of course, the key question: can europe survive without russian gas? it is clear that a european economy without gas cannot, but what it can do is minimize its dependence on russian gas. from february 24th to today, we are witnessing tectonic disruptions in europe's energy supply. changes that will surely accelerate our green agenda, better interconnection, but also regional cooperation in our near future. and we can't overnight, of course, solve something that we haven't been able to solve for decades. and so, in addition to savings, ladies and gentlemen, and new directions, we need a financial fund that will soften the financial blow to the european economy and its citizens. people, let's help all of us, the economy and the citizens in the short term, and let's think and act long term and green. - thank you. - thank you.
in writing. mariupol, bucha, irpin, hostomeli destroyed and razed cities, tortured, killed, raped civilians, kidnapped 11 mayors, thousands of ukrainian citizens deported to russia and 10 million refugees. this is genocide against the ukrainian people! putin is a war criminal who must be brought to justice along with those who follow his orders. latvia and the eu must do everything possible to ensure that such a tribunal, whatever its name, is established. ukraine is and will remain part of europe. this was reaffirmed by the ep president, mr r. metsola, in kiev, where he stressed support for ukraine's candidate status and an accelerated eu accession procedure. parliament therefore calls on the commission to draw up a report as soon as possible on the basis of which the european council will decide on ukraine's status as a candidate country. europe owes that to the ukrainian people. all europeans must understand that ukraine cannot lose this war, because a russian victory would mean the downfall of europe. we must not delay the delivery of military aid and weapons for a day. the ukrainians need ammunition, air defense systems, tanks, armored personnel carriers immediately to stop and resist the russian carpetbagging in eastern ukraine. it will be extremely difficult, because may 9 is approaching, and putin is already dreaming of a spectacular victory parade of the donbas flag in red square. we europeans must realize that the war in ukraine is our war, so we must immediately stop buying russian gas, oil, coal, so as not to finance the kremlin's war machine.
in writing. the commission announced that it had prepared a fifth package of proposed sanctions against russia. so we have this paradox: the european union has also been a major player in the fight against terrorism, and it is not only the european union that is responsible for the attacks on the united nations, but also the european union itself. moreover, the russian state-owned company rosatom, which is controlled by the kremlin and is building turkey's first nuclear power plant in akkuyu, just a few kilometers from cyprus, is not included in the sanctions. the european citizens, particularly in cyprus, are well aware of the brutality and oppression of the erdoğan regime. the only ones behaving as if they don't know are eu officials, who have an obligation to know and act accordingly in the face of a brutal regime that continues to receive european funds. the european union's unanimous position on common defence and security and energy autonomy puts us in a position of responsibility in terms of strategic autonomy, since the threats are real. but common rules are needed, at the heart of which must be respect for international law, which has been violated for 42 days in ukraine by russian troops and for 48 years in cyprus, eu territory, by turkish occupation troops.
in writing. we adopted a resolution calling for a complete embargo on russian oil, coal, nuclear fuel and gas imports. the full and effective implementation of the sanctions already in place throughout the eu must be a priority for all member states. the european parliament also called on eu leaders to exclude russia from the g20 as well as from other multilateral cooperation organisations such as interpol, the world trade organisation and unesco. it would be a signal that the international community has no intention of restoring normal relations with the aggressor state. in order to strengthen the sanctions, parliament calls for the exclusion of russian banks from the swift system. the eu should also prohibit the entry of all vessels linked to russia and stop at eu ports and stop road transport from russia and belarus. meps call for the seizure of the assets of all russian officials and oligarchs linked to the putin regime and the revocation of their visas. he should also seize the assets of belarusian individuals associated with the lukashenka regime. parliament stressed that sanctions should be imposed on all russian officials, governors, mayors and business associates who support and benefit from the current policies of the putin regime. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country. the perpetrators of these crimes must be held accountable. parliament supported the inquiry launched by the prosecutor of the international criminal court into war crimes and crimes against humanity and the work of the commission of inquiry of the office of the high commissioner for human rights.
in writing. putin's brutal invasion of ukraine requires a strong and united eu position. the debate in plenary will be accompanied by the adoption of a joint resolution. although i strongly disagree with certain points in the joint resolution, particularly those concerning the continuation and strengthening of arms deliveries to ukraine and the general ban on the promotion of russian culture at events, i co-signed the joint resolution because i believe that there should be an unequivocal message of condemnation of the russian invasion. because at this moment, a strong, united message is needed for an immediate ceasefire and for a complete cessation of all russian aggressive military operations in ukraine, but this must be done without the use of military means. the joint resolution rightly supports the establishment of safe passageways and humanitarian corridors for the evacuation of civilians, the strengthening of eu humanitarian aid networks in ukraine, the investigation of alleged crimes against humanity and war crimes, the imposition of strict sanctions on russian oligarchs linked to the putin regime, compensatory measures and alternative supplies of goods and energy sources in order to reduce the negative impact on civilians, as well as effective measures against unacceptable profiteering, having, inter alia, drawn lessons from the pandemic response measures.
in writing. – russia’s invasion of ukraine and the brutal ways by which it has been put into effect have undermined almost completely all the historical and geopolitical claims that had been validly advanced to argue against nato expansion to the east. any military or diplomatic gains that russia might make from its so-called special military operation will not be legitimate. this apart from any accusations of war crimes that are being claimed against it. more immediately, european governments are adopting the right approach in focusing on sanctions, short of war, to deter the continuing military actions that russia, despite having suffered reverses on the ground, is still developing on a massive scale. in implementing sanctions, the eu must be careful not to impose punitive measures that end up wounding it more in the short to medium term than it does russia, for this might have counter-productive consequences in terms both of deterrence and of european public opinion. however it is also clear that the sharper and more biting that european sanctions become, the more effective their impact will be. balancing the different goals that need to be attained, is a delicate process that must achieve the optimal aim of bringing the ukraine war to a close a.s.a.p., hopefully today.
in writing. the russian military is committing monstrous atrocities in ukraine in the form of executions of civilians, rapes, attacks on civilian objects and forced displacement. we therefore need the member states of the european union to remain united and to make every effort, together with our democratic partners in the world, to stop the bloodshed in ukraine. the european union must send a clear signal to all countries in the world that helping russia circumvent economic sanctions or potentially supporting it militarily will have consequences for trade relations with europe. likewise, we must continue to impose all possible sanctions on russia, as well as on belarus. it is also necessary to allocate funds to help ukrainians who had to flee the war to the eu. last but not least, we must give the ukrainians hope for a european future and support them on their path to peace, freedom and democracy.
the invasion of ukraine by the russian federation is an attack on international law, the territorial integrity of a sovereign state and the self-determination of peoples. the atrocities committed against civilians in the context of the invasion are a crime against humanity which must be tried in the competent courts and lead to exemplary punishment. the european union has shown a strong unity not only in condemning the aggression but also in military and humanitarian support for the heroic resistance of ukraine, in welcoming refugees, in supporting the non-community countries which have actively collaborated in this welcome and in encouraging the citizens who in russia and belarus have taken up courageous positions condemning the war. successive sanctions packages that have had concrete impacts on punishing those responsible for the decision to massacre and destroy ukraine must continue in a more intense manner, focused on the most sensitive targets for those responsible and for the financing of the aggressor power's war effort, requiring the same level of commitment from all member states. at the same time, the european union must prepare, in a flexible and supportive manner, measures to respond effectively and fairly to the economic and social impacts of the war on its territory.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are currently experiencing a turning point, triggered by this terrible, terrible war in ukraine. the coronavirus crisis and climate policy are not the focus of attention right now, and the same is true for digital policy. however, we are also witnessing a long overdue change in data and digital policy, which is beginning today with the adoption of the data governance act. to be honest, europe has missed the birth of the online platform economy and the associated revolution in the use of personal data. we left it to the big american companies like google, facebook, amazon, who are the first-timers who are still dominating the digital world today. but with the european data strategy, which was already announced in 2020, we in the european union have not only started to level the playing field in the digital world, but to fundamentally change the rules of the game. the data governance act, which we are now debating and voting on this afternoon, is the beginning of a paradigm shift that is necessary to build a growing, innovative european data economy as a counter-proposal to the approaches in the us or china. in the united states, data, ladies and gentlemen, is big business. the organization of the data space is left almost entirely to the private sector, which has also led to these considerable concentration effects. in china, data is almost state property. china has a combination of government surveillance and big tech companies that largely control huge amounts of data on their own. and we in europe, we're going a different way. we're all about the user. we have seen this for many years when we have been discussing the general data protection regulation to protect the rights of users in particular here. so this is a huge opportunity for europe to emancipated itself, i would say, in the digital economy, to go our own european way. we need it because the strength of our data economy in europe is also driven by small and medium-sized enterprises, by start-ups, to whom we must give a chance. the goal that the data governance act is pursuing is to break up data silos, to share data, to make data sharing easier, to make data more usable for our economy and our society. that is why we are creating the framework with the data governance act so that neutral data brokers can offer their services in the european union. data brokers who do not use the data entrusted to them for their own economic purposes, as the other large platform operators do, but these data brokers are only responsible for aggregating this data entrusted to them, refining it, preparing it in such a way that others can work well with this data provided. we believe that by doing so, we create a trusted environment that allows for fair data sharing, and we very much hope that this will be embraced in practice. i would like to conclude by expressing my sincere thanks to the colleagues who have been consulting this dossier intensively for many months - i see them all here before me. i thank you for the good cooperation and i believe that what was particularly important to us as the european parliament on this dossier, we were able to achieve only in the tough negotiations with the member states and with the help of the commission, because we were so united. we have now defined a clear scope of application which creates legal certainty. we have strengthened a european data innovation council. we have decided that there should be a common eu logo for data brokering services, a european single access point from which member states' data sets can also be searched across borders, and much more. i am proud, ladies and gentlemen, that we have been able to discuss this matter together so quickly. i think - and this is my last sentence - that the information revolution will not wait for europe and will certainly not come about through wishful thinking. we must act now! we must now do everything we can to design the data space in such a way that our citizens, our companies and our private sector can get the most out of it, with the legislative proposals still pending.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be able to take part today in the debate on the data governance act, following the agreement in principle between the co-legislators and the commission that we reached last november. i would first like to thank in particular the rapporteur, angelika niebler, dear angelika, for the absolutely outstanding work that has been done, mr lagodinsky of course, and all the fictitious rapporteurs for the excellent work that has been done on this matter, and also for the efficiency and speed with which the negotiations have been concluded. the political agreement was reached in just over a year after the publication of the commission's proposal and after only two political trilogues. this is a result which i would like to underline in your presence. this initiative is the first stone in the legislative framework announced as part of the data strategy, which aims to ensure that our internal market can anticipate but also accompany the data revolution that lies ahead. it is about building a genuine internal data market, open but also sovereign, which facilitates data sharing in line with our values. europe has the capacity to be a major player in the wave of innovation that will accompany the development of the industrial data economy. we know that the potential is enormous for employment, for european businesses and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. by 2024, that's nearly 175 zettabytes of data that will be produced on our planet, or 175 trillion trillion pieces of data. the data economy, especially industrial data, will therefore be at the heart of the green and digital transitions we are experiencing. the aim is to organise the conditions for access and transfer of data so that they can circulate within the internal market, but also generate value, while guaranteeing a framework of trust for their use. this is the whole point of the data governance act. we will thus be able to help develop common european data spaces by ensuring that more data is available and also by strengthening voluntary data sharing mechanisms. the data governance act will therefore strengthen the trust needed for data sharing and also reduce the cost of transactions: on the one hand, by regulating neutral data intermediaries whose mission is to connect those who have data with those who want to use it; on the other hand, by regulating neutral data intermediaries whose mission is to connect those who have data with those who want to use it; on the other hand, by regulating neutral data intermediaries whose mission is to provide information to those who need it; on the other hand, by regulating neutral data intermediaries whose mission is to provide information to those who need it; on the other hand, by regulating neutral data intermediaries whose mission is to provide information to those who need it; on the other hand, by regulating neutral data intermediaries whose mission is to provide information to those who need it. the establishment of a european data innovation committee, in the form of an expert group, which will promote the emergence of standards for cross-sectoral interoperability; finally, and i will conclude with this, by protecting sensitive european data against any unlawful access, including by a government or a third country. i would therefore like to thank parliament again for its support for this first act. i would also like to point out that, at the same time, we have also made very good progress on the framework for the use of data by the so-called 'gatekeepers' (access controllers) in the dma, which was recently concluded, as you know, in a trilogue. i believe that these two texts therefore constitute an excellent basis for cooperation in the discussions we are about to have on the data act, which the commission presented a few weeks ago.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. madam president, an innovative and sovereign europe is making its entrance onto the world stage. as such, the data governance act appears to be the most sustainable and relevant solution to exploit the enormous potential of data. we need to promote and secure data sharing without forcing anyone to do so. this is how we will multiply transnational opportunities, for our citizens, for our businesses and for the altruistic organisations that do the common good. with the dga, we will offer a european model and an alternative to the data processing practices of the big platforms in the us or the chinese government. yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to take back control and create a safer space, which will finally allow european actors to access a large amount of data. this final agreement is the result of a great teamwork, and i would like to thank our colleague angelika niebler and commissioner thierry breton. it is now up to us to build a market for non-personal data and to establish benchmarks that will, i am sure, radiate all over the world.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the commissioner for his presence and his proposal and, above all, for the excellent work of the rapporteur, mrs niebler, with whom i of course share the conviction that our union absolutely needs a data governance act: a law that increases trust in data intermediaries and strengthens the mechanisms for sharing; a law that focuses on the protection, privacy and confidentiality of data, and also on the reuse of some of it held by the public sector. it is also essential to ensure that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups do not face any artificial restrictions or obstacles: public data should be available to them at all times and, where possible, free of charge or at reduced rates. we therefore naturally support the interim agreement, since it also includes, among other things, the possibility for public sector bodies to conclude new contracts allowing for the exclusive right to reuse data held by them for 12 months instead of the three years originally envisaged in the commission's proposal, or also the establishment of special conditions applicable to the transfer of non-personal data held by the public sector which are considered to be highly sensitive and where the transfer could jeopardise the objectives of the union or involve the risk of re-identification of such data.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, angelika niebler, on her excellent work on this report. the european data governance act is a very important part of the european strategy for data. its main objective is to enhance the use of data by increasing the mechanisms that ensure trust in this process, a strengthening that will allow us to create shared data spaces at european level in strategic sectors such as energy, mobility and health, benefiting european people and businesses. for the european people's party, trust and clarity have always been key requirements for the success of the european data strategy, and this report contributes to this end. the recommendation of low-cost practices for smes and start-ups for data use is also very relevant to the epp.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear commissioner, the data governance act is a key step towards a fair european data economy. data is a resource that we don’t take necessarily in our hands, and why? because it is now taken and used by the biggest player leading to the monopolies. this is surely not the most effective way for society to benefit from digitalisation. with the data governance act, europe is taking an important and concrete step to alternative model. a lot of good can happen on industrial data when it is used by more companies, so the data is not used and benefits only for a few but many. so we pushed for the trusted intermediators and interoperable data spaces. they are key condition to unleashing data’s potential around europe. i want to extend my gratitude to the rapporteur, co-rapporteurs and all the committees. but i must say we cannot rest yet. there is so much to do. the last piece of the puzzle will be the data act. but today, colleagues, we cannot rest also because we don’t have a clue where our data is used. there was today, maybe commissioner too, there was today published the tg power study, and that shows that also the politicians are affected by the data used on our data. my mobile was tested. there were other european policy-makers. please google hashtag tg power, because it shows how influence is doing on our data and we don’t have a clue. we have to make rules very quickly. it is also a question of security.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every second billions of data are generated by machines of all kinds. they represent a very important asset which, if put to good use, can make life easier for citizens, improve services or aid research. a heritage which we must above all preserve from misuse or illegal use. data governance is therefore one of the great challenges facing policy in the digital age. we have worked in recent months, first as parliament - and i thank mrs niebler, the rapporteur for this measure - together with the council, then - and thanks to the important mediation of the commission and commissioner breton - to provide europe with a legal instrument which will enable us to regulate the sharing of data, to get ahead of our partners and to lead the game in this field. data that underpins the development of artificial intelligence and the economy of tomorrow. the aim is to create a kind of 'data schengen', as some call it, for the benefit of individuals and businesses, and especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which will have greater control over the sharing and management of data. we are talking about a tool which will enable operators of all sizes, especially the smaller ones, to access a market for intermediary services based on transparency and neutrality, a tool which aims to regulate the reuse of data held by the public sector, which are too often unused. finally, this regulation creates an innovation committee with several tasks, the first of which is to help increase data interoperability in the european union and to establish guidelines for the creation of common european data spaces. in short, thanks to this important tool, we aim to have more and more data available, with more and more safeguards, being careful to balance, on the one hand, rules and principles and, on the other, not to hinder an economy that is all emerging and evolving.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the inclusive way in which she has conducted this whole process. this legislation that we are voting on here today is important and necessary. provided that data protection is guaranteed in accordance with european law, data sharing has enormous potential in the area of research and innovation and can generate important social and economic benefits. with this regulation we can increase data sharing in the union, especially for the benefit of civil society, cooperatives and small and medium-sized enterprises. we do, however, have some reservations about the final text. the sharing of data on workers, which had been eliminated in parliament's version, is now removed from the agreement. the concept of general interest in the field of data altruism or data sharing with third countries has become even more undefined. the monitoring of all processes, which was ensured by public agencies and institutions, is now handed over to private parties. we are moving increasingly towards a model of governance which, in our view, does not protect the fundamental interests of the citizens of the european union. however, this is an important proposal, as i said, and therefore, because the final agreement fell short of parliament's position, we shall abstain.
madam president, first of all i want to thank frau niebler. the data governance act claims to help exploit the potential of the data economy by facilitating the availability to have large amounts of data for emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence. the proposal is the first concrete step towards promoting the technological sovereignty of the eu by creating the legal framework for the voluntary sharing of data. the launch of the domestic data economy and the development of the digital ecosystem, including the data economy ecosystem are a matter of greatest importance. the hungarian government seeks to encourage the disposition and activation of private data assets through the transfer of international good practices and the awareness of the interests of the stakeholders, which results in increased international competitiveness of the hungarian and european data economic system. i would like to thank you for the great efforts of the rapporteur for achieving a reasonable and balanced text which serves the interests of an efficient data asset management both in europe and hungary.
madam president, it is very often said, and we often hear people saying, that data is the new oil. but, in a way, this comparison is not very accurate. we all generate data. data can be shared, it can be used, it can be reused, and it can create value and different types of values. this is why i think that the dga will help ensure that all areas of society benefit from this data. and, of course, we need trust and fairness that underpin the exchange, but also the flow of data. i think this act will enable the reuse, most importantly, of public sector data, that will help us tackle some of the biggest challenges before us, be it environmental, be it health or in the energy sector. but this act will only work if, as a european union, we manage to build a coherent digital strategy, one where ai data, crypto, semiconductors and many other features work together to improve global competitiveness, both for businesses but also for society.
madam president, first, i would like to thank angelika niebler and the shadow rapporteurs for successfully negotiating such a swift and strong agreement. data is the core value of the digital economy and data being generated constantly, so this value will continue to grow. our mission is to protect our data and ensure we have a secure and fair framework for data sharing, access and re-use and also based on trust. our aim is to introduce also neutrality obligations for market places and to boost data altruism. i think this has been succeeded by giving us also more control of our data. the dga is a decisive step towards breaking data silos in europe and, in a human centric way, facilitating data flows and data—driven innovation. but we must keep the same ambition to unlock the value of the internet of things, ensuring data portability and preventing unlawful data transfers outside the eu. we have ensured that the ict of parliament can check the mobile devices of all colleagues, of politicians, for malicious activity like pegasus. we should ensure that this is a possibility that goes beyond the parliament – that it goes for diplomats, for activists, for journalists, i think. thank you, commissioner, for all the work and i think we can continue with this target.
madam president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this new regulation on european data governance is of obvious importance because it determines the legal framework for the reuse of personal and non-personal data, either by non-profit organisations, so-called data altruists, voluntarily provided for general interest purposes such as medical research, or by commercial companies, data sharing service providers, and only if they do not use it for their own purposes. it is clear that the european union, which has fallen considerably behind the usa and china in this area, must have the means to impose its own systems for the management, use and protection of data of individuals, administrations and companies in each state. we would therefore tend to support this first step towards harmonizing the rules. but the system is fragile, because if reusable data is supposed to be anonymised, the fact remains that the european union is once again choosing the path of openness and competition, preventing any national sovereignty over vital data for each state. as for volunteering, it will only exist for the duration of this first project, because the question of relations with all public or private structures that will not participate in the sharing of data will soon arise, some having been sparked by the example of the gaia-x fiasco, an exciting european project, which was open to companies that had worked with the cia or the nsa. so while we obviously support the general approach, and despite the data protection regulation, we are sorry, we will abstain on this matter.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i'm not going to let you do this. the development of the digital single market is not possible without opening up access to big data which underpin the creation of innovative products and services. this is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, which face the greatest barriers in this area. administrations and public institutions have huge data sets at their disposal that can be successfully used in the economy. member states should open these repositories, of course with due regard for the protection of sensitive and personal data. the polish government's actions and achievements in this area are an example of how this can be done effectively and safely. the european union must share a real free-data-sharing area to be competitive in the world. only in this way can we harness our potential in the global technological race to the benefit of european consumers and businesses. i would also like to say that i join in all the congratulations and compliments to mrs niebler. that was really good work.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, the personal data and family life, the state of health of an individual are his great and personal value. instead of a complete ban and complete protection of personal data, primarily medical data, we are now making that same data a commodity. we've completely changed the direction we were going before. we have embraced the direction of the united states of america where absolutely everything is a commodity. this road will take us to a world that will be far worse than the world of orwell's 1984 and the matrix combined. this trade in medical data will enable the production of highly specific biological weapons, all citizens of the world will be able to take a certain product, and only certain will die.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the russian aggression against ukraine has simply united europe as never before, but it also represents a serious generational test which constantly tests us and which sets before us a fact which we must accept, namely that the era in which european peace could be taken for granted is ending. in such a context, aggression also shows the hypocrisy of certain actors who do not even today realize that in this new era of uncertainty, in this new era of tectonic change, there is no room for any sad calculation or for lack of courage. this is a question of a genuine fundamental civic commitment, a civic choice for all both those within the european union and those outside the european union, and for those on the right side of the spectrum, but also for those on the left side, as we have seen in previous votes in the european parliament. this issue is also particularly relevant to south-east europe. after the elections in serbia last week, after the phone call between president vucic and president putin today and the constant emphasis on close friendly relations, this is yet another reason not to close our eyes, to follow the situation and to understand that everyone, including the candidate countries, must unambiguously commit and determine themselves towards this war and towards relations with russia, and this is especially true for those countries that do not even mind using hybrid versions of policies, the overt policies of serbia from the nineties, because in that case they will be not only further away from the european union but also further and further away from the entire european civilization.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr bartolo, i think we can all agree that all people should have the same rights, that they should have the same right to asylum. however, it is also clear to everyone that there are also completely different legal bases and i do not see why, in fact, you conclude that there are such double standards. because, it seems to me that what is absolutely clear is that everyone has to meet some criteria, some standards, some rules that are pre-ordained, and that's why my one clear fundamental question is: why are we not talking about people who could ask for protection at official border crossings at all, but we are talking about illegal migration under cover of night, without official documents to cross the border with?
the question he raised by raising his blue card. why are you mixing apples and pears? refugees coming from ukraine come from the war zone directly to the european union with all documents and cross at designated border crossings. people coming to croatia or greece come without documents so we don't know who they are, we don't know where they originally come from, they cross the border under cover of night past the border crossings and come from turkey which is not a country in which war is going on. so please, don't compare things that are incomparable.
madam chair, the right to leave is often abused. illegal migration is a major problem for the european asylum system and in this regard i would point out that the republic of croatia, with more than 6 500 police officers, is effectively protecting the longest external land border of the european union. last year, over 17 000 cases of persons found to have crossed the border illegally were recorded in croatia, which is 40% less than in 2020. this is a testament to the ability of the croatian police and the readiness of croatia, which is why the slovenian police are recording a decrease in the number of illegal migrants. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the accession of croatia to the schengen area. i stress that croatia has an obligation to protect the state border, which it does in accordance with european and international law. in this regard, i would remind you that an independent mechanism has been established to monitor the conduct of police officers. the prevention of illegal migration is crucial for the protection of the european way of life and the croatian police, in accordance with the rules, exercise police powers. any isolated incidents are the subject of an internal procedure and in no case constitute systematic action by police officers. in conclusion, i call on all member states to step up their efforts to tackle illegal migration because the border is crossed at border crossings, not on forests and rivers.
madam speaker, four million ukrainians are fleeing russian aggression, fleeing russian shells because their homes have been destroyed, because they have no food, no water, and because they are fleeing together with their families. ninety percent of them are women and children. europe is clearly showing its heart, showing its solidarity, just as we have shown before. we hear in this debate today that it shows some kind of hypocrisy, that it shows some kind of double standards or even that it shows some kind of racist policy that europe supposedly has. that couldn't be further from the truth. this is a situation where a neighboring country is at war, where there is a completely different legal basis and where we have an obligation to protect the border from illegal migration in other cases. we are humane to all those who seek our protection, especially those fleeing conflict, but we must remain resolute, we must remain firm against those who abuse the system, and we must be especially uncompromising to those who profit from such a system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of movement in europe is one of the key achievements of the european union. the pandemic has shown once again how vulnerable that freedom can be, and also that we cannot take that freedom for granted. on the contrary, to strengthen it, it is essential that all countries adhere to the schengen acquis and continue to build the trust on which schengen is based. the application of the schengen acquis is a legal obligation for all the member states of the european union, and it is clear that today the world, the circumstances are completely different from when schengen was founded. the world is more complex, security is more at risk, and dramatic global changes are changing the way schengen is applied. despite all the global challenges, croatia has met all the conditions through over 280 technical recommendations for the application of the schengen acquis, which was confirmed by the commission, but also unanimously by the council in december last year. over the past seven years, we have shown and proved that we can protect europe's external borders in accordance with the highest standards of protection, but also with respect for human rights, and implement all the measures necessary for the functioning of schengen. it's time for croatian citizens to finally enjoy full freedom of movement in europe because croatia is ready for schengen!
mr president, a strong and united europe, a europe without borders, a europe which, despite this unfortunate war in ukraine, implements its strategic decisions and realizes its objectives only such a europe can survive and only such a europe can prosper in the future and only in such a europe without borders can citizens feel the meaning of the european union, and croatia is technically ready for schengen. that is what the commission and the council say. ladies and gentlemen, when you talk to people in croatia today, for them schengen is not just about connectivity and faster border crossing. today, in the context of this war in ukraine, it becomes a question of whether we are all the same european family or not. for the citizens of croatia, it becomes a security and existential issue. delaying such a decision to bring croatia into schengen would only benefit those who hope that europe is shaken, wounded, weak and divided. and that's why we're going to prove you wrong!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more than 3.9 million people have fled ukraine since the beginning of the russian aggression, taking refuge in the various territories of the european union. this is a figure which is unfortunately set to increase in the coming weeks, given the prolonged conflict. this is an emergency which affects women and children in particular and which has been very well received, particularly by certain states which are often instrumentally demonized in this house, and i am referring to poland, romania, slovakia, hungary and moldova. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the countries concerned. that is why our group, although aware that these resources may not be sufficient and may require further intervention in the coming weeks, as it has already done with the care package, strongly supports and has strongly supported this measure and this procedure, considering them essential in relation to the increase in the prefinancing of react-eu to support the member states, but above all to continue to demonstrate our closeness to the ukrainian people. once again, cohesion policy, as it was already the case with the pandemic, is proving to be the most effective and flexible policy with which to deal with emergencies and provide support to the different member states. and it is precisely because of this capacity that i think we need to think more broadly, because it is clear that we need to build a structural solution to prevent these resources from being used in an excessive way. the commission has an urgent structural solution to find in order to guarantee a solution and a constant response to a problem which will not be solved in a few days or a few months. that is why we will continue to support this type of intervention in relation to the work and the emergencies we will face.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. yes, the willingness of many volunteers, many municipalities to provide protection to people from ukraine is unbroken. in my home city of berlin, thousands of people arrive every day. some first use their 90-day tourist visas because they have not given up hope that the war that has ruined their lives will soon be over. yes, the application of the eu mass supply directive was a historic step, because the eu finally decided to stop selling off its core assets. but it must also be said at this point that human rights are indivisible. this quick action would have been just as possible for people from the wars in syria or afghanistan. that it took the shock of war in our neighborhood to make us move faster, we should not be so quick to forgive ourselves. the compass of europeans has finally turned back to solidarity. now, for the first time, many are experiencing what it means to flee bombings, repression, and persecution. it's about emergency shelter, housing, jobs, immediate access to social services, language support and integration, psychological services and medical care, starting with vaccinations, because the pandemic hasn't gone away. and last but not least, childcare and schooling are bringing back a piece of peaceful everyday life for the children and young people. but in urban areas, housing is often scarce, and in rural areas, the internet is not available for learning. and right now, energy and food prices are going up, and to stabilize a housing and care infrastructure, care+, which we're deciding today, is the best package of aid. it simplifies procedures and frees up resources. we moved in a windmill. and i wish we didn't think of this kind of policy as crisis mode, because there's no reason for the eu's austerity policies that have been haunting us since 2008. instead of constantly looking at ourselves in the mirror of political impotence, we should invest in solidarity on a permanent basis. migration-friendly infrastructure is the backbone of our democracy. care+ is an educational contribution to this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 7 april 2022. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. as a result of russia's unprovoked and unjustified military aggression, the european union and in particular several of its eastern regions are facing a number of challenges. the biggest challenge remains the millions of people fleeing the war. the remarkable solidarity of the european peoples in welcoming refugees has resonated around the world. russia's aggression against ukraine is putting additional financial pressure on member states, especially on frontline states. adequate funding is needed to support refugees immediately. in this context, cohesion policy will advance eur 3,4 billion from react-eu to member states, especially for frontline member states, so that they can provide support to all refugees. for all member states, the commission proposes to increase the pre-financing from 11% to 15% of the react-eu tranche for 2021. the commission proposes raising the rate to 45% for frontline member states. the proposal allows for a reduction in the pressure on member states' public budgets so that they can manage the flow of refugees from ukraine. the european union and each member state, in particular romania and poland, are close to the suffering of the ukrainian people.
in writing. russian military aggression against ukraine has had terrible impacts on the ukrainian territory and its people, who are suffering immensely. the consequences of this unjust conflict are felt far beyond the borders of ukraine, affecting the world, particularly europe, in multiple dimensions. the humanitarian dimension is undoubtedly the most important and the eu has shown enormous solidarity since the start of this conflict, welcoming swiftly millions of refugees from ukraine. but to respond adequately to reception needs, member states need more than current programmes to fund migrant integration projects. they also need mechanisms similar to those that have enabled faster responses to the pandemic. in this regard, and as a way of supporting member states in the additional challenges posed to their public budgets, the increase in the pre-financing of the reacteu resources is of great importance, but should be seen in complementarity with other action measures. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the situation of marginalised roma communities in the eu (2022/2573 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the eu strategic framework for equality, inclusion and participation sets out a comprehensive three-pillar approach for the next 10 years. the scope of the strategy was reinforced by the council recommendation adopted in march 2021. the framework’s seven objectives and headline targets allow for effective monitoring and measuring of the progress achieved by member states. as requested, most member states have adopted new national roma strategic frameworks. the commission is currently assessing them and will publish a report on the implementation at national level later this year. more work is needed, of course, to improve the social and economic inclusion of marginalised roma communities. the roma survey conducted by the eu agency for fundamental rights, found that 80% of roma continue to live below the ‘at risk of poverty’ threshold of their country. every third roma lives in housing without tap water. one in 10 in housing, without electricity and every fourth roma, that is 27%, and every third roma child, that is 30%, lives in a household that faced hunger at least once in the previous month. when asked if the total household income is sufficient to make ends meet, 92% of roma surveyed indicate that they face at least some difficulties in this regard, with 4 to 5% facing great difficulties. the european social fund plus (esf+), part of eu cohesion policy for years 2021-2027, has, under its policy objective four, a more social and inclusive europe, a specific objective for funding the socio-economic integration of marginalised communities such as roma people. i call on member states to use the good opportunity provided by the current momentum, when the partnership agreements and cohesion policy programmes are about to be adopted, to ensure that the marginalisation, exclusion and segregation of roma is addressed in the most effective ways. this is particularly relevant for member states with a significant roma population. through its citizens equality, rights and values programme, the european commission makes available eur 12 million for projects combating all forms of discrimination. the objective of the specific calls for proposals that are issued is to promote equality and to fight against racism, xenophobia and discrimination, including combating manifestations of anti-gypsyism. with the outbreak of russia’s military aggression towards ukraine, millions of people are fleeing the war and seeking refuge, and amongst them are also many roma people. more than 4 million persons already sought shelter in eu countries bordering ukraine, of whom 100 000 are estimated to be roma. the european union is helping these people through direct humanitarian aid, emergency civil protection assistance, support at the border by eu agencies, as well as an immediate protection status for those fleeing the war. we must ensure that our support continues to reach all those who need it. we are also ensuring that member states have the necessary liquidity to address the most urgent needs such as schooling, housing and hospital beds. the commission had set up a solidarity platform to coordinate operational and financial support and reception capacity. nevertheless, we must be aware that roma fleeing the war often struggle with additional vulnerabilities, such as a lack of identification documents, separation from family members, language-related communication difficulties and biased attitudes at the borders. according to civil society reports, roma were accused of not being genuine refugees, of taking advantage of the availability of humanitarian aid, or that they intend to abuse the welfare system of eu countries. we must ensure that people can always flee wars even if they do not have an identification document, and that the most vulnerable ones are provided humanitarian help in an unhindered manner. during my mandate, i prioritised dialogue with civil society. and this is done via regular consultation fora with stakeholders at european level and also within the context of the european platform for roma inclusion, which ensures cooperation at the highest political level. i remain committed to visiting roma in their communities and in their homes to learn directly from them and take that knowledge with me to meetings with national and regional politicians.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not (the speaker speaks a few words in a language which is not an official language of the eu.) we, the people with romanian background, celebrate our international day on april 8th. on this day, this house must say more clearly and loudly than ever that anti-gypsyism is a deeply rooted phenomenon and is making our society sick. let us look at ukraine: my people are often prevented from fleeing, from crossing the border. my people are being separated from the refugees because of their ethnicity. they are asked for money to cross the border. what kind of world are we living in? has not the history of europe done enough harm to my people? when will we finally open our eyes to confront this injustice in a credible way? when is it enough? twelve million europeans have a roma background and almost 80% live in poverty and are excluded because of their inherent ethnicity. i ask the commission: is this not enough injustice to make use of every opportunity to give them the right to equality? without greater political commitment, little will change for my local sisters and brothers. i am very pleased, however, that we now have a large majority in the european parliament in favour of a european law on equal opportunities for people of roma background. the eu has the power to make a law for equality and anti-gypsyism possible for my people. and the european parliament has already taken the first step in september 2020. how many more tragedies does the commission need to see before it understands that this law can save lives? because ultimately, it's about saving lives. why would you do that? my family has lived in the german-speaking world for over 600 years. i love my country and i love europe, just as all my people love their homeland. we are citizens of our home countries. i call on the commission and i ask you with all my heart: implement this law! we're people with a history of romance. we are citizens of our countries. we are not going to be treated as equal citizens. (the speaker speaks a few words in a language which is not an official language of the eu.)
mr president, the government's policy of isolation rather than integration is preventing the roma from being integrated into normal life. it keeps them isolated in their communities, where they live lives that are unacceptable to most citizens. roma settlements are often filled with violence, garbage, abandoned animals. they are mostly uneducated and prone to excess. young girls are forced to marry very early. at 15, they have more children because the government gives them benefits, but they don't have the opportunity to go to school. it's no secret that in roma settlements, say in međimurje, weapons are hidden - from pistols to automatic rifles and explosive devices, and there has been police intervention. children sometimes come to school with knives - there have been cases like this, and instead of giving roma the opportunity to work and contribute to society through employment programs, they are given money and white technology. this technique is mostly sold, the money is spent on addictive behavior, often in gambling, which gives kids from a young age bad parenting, bad role models, and they don't know any better. young roma who have broken out of this vicious circle and found employment are building homes and careers outside roma settlements. although most young people in croatia will tell you that they want a different life and that they want to move out of the roma settlements, the policy of the croatian governments is still to keep them in their settlements, without much chance and conditions for a better life.
dear chairman, commissioner, colleagues and colleagues. research has shown that 77 percent of consumers would rather repair than replace a defective product. however, there are many obstacles that prevent consumers from repairing the product. the commission also found that the union industry had not been able to obtain sufficient spare parts to meet the demand for the product concerned. and i also get complaints from consumers that the household products that their parents bought lasted longer than the products that we buy today. in order to enable citizens to have the right to repair a product, it is therefore important to ensure the availability of spare parts and to enable consumers to obtain information on the expected life of the product under normal use and the possibility of its repair when purchasing it. in addition, i call on the commission to consider the possibility of extending the guarantee when proposing a legislative act, and certainly to blacklist practices that unjustifiably restrict the right to repair or lead to product defects as being absolutely unfair commercial practices. it is the minimum we must do to protect the rights of consumers in europe. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ppe club. dear chair, commissioners, colleagues, mental disorders are one of the greatest public health challenges. their widespread prevalence, the burden they place on health systems, indicate the need for action at multiple levels. in 2018, approximately 13,5% of all hospital beds in the eu were psychiatric care beds, and this practice has certainly increased during the pandemic. scientists point out that mental problems are often a more significant cause of illness and premature death than are physical illnesses. this data points to the need to invest in mental health, including early detection and treatment of disorders, thereby contributing to the well-being and economic benefits of individuals and society. the covid-19 pandemic and the economic crisis that followed have put a heavy burden on the mental health of citizens, especially young people and those from lower income groups. our citizens felt insecurity, a change in daily routine, fear of existence and social isolation. according to the world health organization, in the first year of the pandemic, the number of cases of anxiety and depression rose by a whopping 25 percent, which is extremely worrying. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and immigration, including on the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and immigration. what i would particularly like to stress is that we need a common strategy for mental health, following the european plan to fight cancer. it is essential to increase the effectiveness and accessibility of mental health systems at european level. we need to encourage interdisciplinary collaboration, as well as increasing the integration of mental health care into primary health care. this will contribute to the development of health services that provide more targeted and coordinated care for people with mental disorders. the establishment of a knowledge-sharing network is also needed for the effective implementation of best practices. in conclusion, i would stress the need for greater investment by the member states, but also by the european union, in mental health, i.e. programmes to protect and promote mental health, especially in children and young people. thank you very much.
mr president, this is the most important topic, also because of the crisis in ukraine and the trauma that this is causing. a lack of mental health services threatens lives and human rights. i have also experienced that myself. when i was 15, we had a shooting at my school, because the shooter didn’t get the mental health aid that he was seeking before it was too late. and i myself suffered from depression. i think that this is something we must address here, because we know the solutions too. it is not a mystery how to solve mental health issues. we need to have therapy. psychotherapy is effective; we know this from studies. in just four sessions, you can decrease depression symptoms. we need income, housing for people, and to reduce violence, because that leads to trauma, which is also a big cause of mental health problems. and this is, of course, something we must fix because as much as 50% of people who suffer from a mental health illness never get the help that they need. i am asking, as my colleagues have too, for a european union mental health strategy and for more funding for mental health care and also research on this topic. we really do owe this especially to the children and young people who are suffering today.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, this question and this debate come at a very opportune time after years of panic and hysteria in the media. after years of putting citizens of the european union member states in a situation of anxiety and stress, it is clear that this will affect both their mental and their mental health. so, ladies and gentlemen, and especially to you, madam commissioner, the question is this, and the comment is this. it's clear that we've lived through two years of uncertainty, of panic, of tragedy. something that hasn't happened in the last 100 years or more since the spanish plague. the question is what has the european commission done in those two years and more? what was its reaction, what were the messages that the european commission sent, what were the actions that the european commission took to preserve, to protect, to reassure the citizens of the member states of the european union? what was the amount of money that was spent on the different types of campaigns that were driving people crazy every day, in every single media, whether it was electronic, whether it was social media, whether it was print media, in which there was constant talk about threat, about fear, about a pandemic, about an end, about something that was extraordinary and that was dangerous. so, commissioner, it's good to know what the european commission's propaganda cost during the pandemic and how it affected the mental health of citizens.
mr president, as we discuss mental health it is so important that we take time to reflect on the ukrainian people at this time and the horrendous experiences that they’re going through, experiences that will leave them both young and old, severely traumatised. and i say to the commissioner: you’ve outlined how we can help in this area through effective strategies that require political leadership, coordination and cooperation across organisations and, of course, sufficient resources to implement these strategies. we must be aware that these people will suffer for years to come. and, of course this year, 2022, is the european year of youth. and our young people, i believe, have had an enormous burden to bear over the last number of years, and their mental health most definitely has suffered: lack of engagement and socialising with their peers, gaps in their education that some may never be able to fill or get the opportunity to close, unemployment at a time when they should be advancing and building experiences and isolation that nobody should ever have to suffer at a time when they most need engagement and interaction for social development. we must be prepared for the impact of this amongst our young people, some who may have had difficulties previously that would have been accentuated during covid and others find themselves unable to cope now in this new world to them. so we must support them, keep them to the fore and recognise that, as one of our previous speakers has said, we know the solutions and we need now to engage and support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we could sadly say that there is a kind of ghost in europe, which is invisible because we do not want to see it, because it is hidden in families, in their despair, in their loneliness, in a few care facilities. i'm talking about mental illness, which we all have a great deal of guilt about, leaving families alone, leaving only the people who suffer from it and forgetting them a little bit. that's why i say it's a ghost, because we don't want to see it and we still don't. to this seriousness of mental illness proper, of mental and psychiatric illnesses, have been added today many other problems of psychological distress: the post-covid effect on young people, the reality of the most vulnerable groups and also of women who are subject to violence or victims of violence. we have a duty to investigate all these aspects and to deal with them. so i say, commissioner, and the whole commission, that we really must tackle this problem. these realities are poorly studied: there is little research, even in horizon, on mental illness, there are few treatment and rehabilitation facilities and very little prevention. so my request is that you develop an action plan, as we have done for cancer and other diseases: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives.
mr. chairman, commissioner, a few months ago i was visiting my old high school. you know what the students there told me? they told me that they felt under immense pressure, because of the false standards that social media imposes, that they felt lonely, because they had been isolated in their homes for too long because of the pandemic. we've known for some time that the age of speed we live in, and social media, comes with stress and anxiety, with consequences for our mental health. but the pandemic and now the war have made them even worse. we need to take these issues very seriously before it's too late. otherwise, we risk having entire generations of chronic anxiety and social maladjustment. we need a european mental health plan as soon as possible, to help young europeans in particular, but also ukrainians fleeing the horrors of war.
mr president, the profound changes brought about by covid-19 in people's daily lives have impacted, and continue to impact, their mental health and psychological well-being. urgent responses and concrete measures are needed to ensure universal, proximity and quality healthcare. more investment in health is needed to promote regular coverage of hospital services in psychiatry and mental health, asymmetrical, community-based services, linked to hospital services and public primary health care, contributing to prevention, diagnosis and treatment; equip public health services with the right number of mental health professionals, doctors, nurses, psychologists and other mental health professionals, valuing careers and placing them where they are most needed; and intervene early in early childhood and adolescent mental health by linking health units with school. on the international day of health, it is important to affirm the importance and imperative need to invest in and strengthen the quality, free, public national health service, which includes the mental health dimension, intervening in the prevention and promotion of health in close proximity to the populations.
mr. chairman, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that today, on world health day, we are talking about mental health, because there is no health without mental health. we know that mental health can best be described as a state in which each person can successfully cope with the stresses of daily life. and it's clear that it depends on environmental influences, but also on socio-economic circumstances, and those, as we all know, in these last two years have been anything but simple and easy. and that's why, ladies and gentlemen, i think that national health policies should be much more focused and concrete actions should be taken around promoting the importance of mental health and concrete work on it. this is of course particularly important for children and young people, and i hope that the member states and national governments and the relevant ministry understand this, and the european commission, so that together we can make positive progress on this very important issue. thank you for your attention.
mr president, this initiative is part of the process of deepening the european union's federalist approach, seeking to interfere with the powers of the member states, their own organization of the electoral process and their own electoral traditions. we therefore reject the creation of a common electoral area and transnational lists for elections to the european parliament, which would not only accentuate the imbalances and distortions that already exist, but would also represent an artificial creation that does not correspond to the reality in europe or to the interests of the people, which would contribute to a greater separation between voters and elected representatives and which would distance us from a project of cooperation between sovereign and equal states. the creation of better conditions for a more genuine expression of the will of each people and plurality of representation of each member state should be achieved by a redistribution of the number of seats per member state in the european parliament, compensating those which, in relative terms, have lost more seats in the context of successive enlargement processes and which have been most affected by the unbalanced distribution of seats laid down by the treaty of lisbon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens of the european union, when i ran for the european parliament two years ago, i believed that the pinnacle of democracy and respect for the rule of law was waiting for me. today, i'm afraid i know that's not true. the electoral system that is being created here is designed for a narrow political cartel that has nothing to do with the citizens of the european union. together with colleagues from nine eu countries, we applied to register a european political party ten months ago. in this procedure, the european political party body seriously violates all the regulations of the european union and refuses to take a decision on our request, for ten months, although the legal deadline is 30 days. they've broken it ten times. after all, it is perfectly clear to me that it is easier in putin's russia to register an anti-putin party than in the european union to register a european political party, pro-european oriented.
first of all, congratulations to the rapporteur and all the colleagues involved in this dossier! the health of citizens is undeniably dependent on the consumption of organic food. in this context, i appreciate the european commission's efforts to promote healthy food consumption through its policies. at the same time, we must be aware that production in the organic system is much more difficult to achieve compared to production in the conventional system. farmers should therefore be well paid for these efforts in a way that contributes to their well-being and ensures a decent living. member states must at the same time ensure mechanisms that have the capacity to absorb all organic production when the free market fails to do so in a timely manner, given the known perishability of organic products. the european union must increase organic production, but at the same time it must not forget that it has a mission to mitigate the effects of war and the covid pandemic and to ensure food security not only at european level but also at global level. in conclusion, today's realities force us to rethink our plan of action for the future! the war in ukraine will affect food security. let's not be naive, dear colleagues and be aware of this. prices of many foods have already risen considerably. we, the policy-makers, have a responsibility today to do everything necessary to ensure that citizens have access to quality food and above all affordable food!
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the recognition of organic farming as a strong component of the european union's journey towards more sustainable food systems. the road to increasing the consumption and production of organic products and to achieving the target of at least 25% of agricultural land being cultivated organically is, however, still long and difficult. i would therefore like to stress the role that public policies, in particular the common agricultural policy, will play in this process, by helping farmers in this transition, both through financial support and through advisory and training services. in parallel, a harmonious development of the organic sector will also involve investing in markets and supply chains and promoting measures that stimulate the demand for organic food, thus ensuring market prosperity and stability, fair remuneration for farmers and affordable prices for consumers.
madam president, instead of us in croatia organic farming flourishing, say on the destroyed banovina, i have to paraphrase here the letter of the croatian karst meadows association that best describes it. we are the only country in the european union that orchestrates a media smear of its own farmers and food producers, and that the ministry treats with utter incomprehension. all this is a reflection of the agricultural policy created by the import lobbies in croatia who want to crush any more serious form of agricultural production, especially meat and milk, so that they can continue to sell us questionable quality meat at dumped prices in shopping centers. it's no wonder that the department of agriculture has just announced that last month we had the lowest milk production in history and that our livestock production is on the verge of extinction. it's no accident that our farmland is turning into weeds because the administration has failed to properly address a law that has been amended 29 times in 30 years. we are the only member state that has not regulated the market, ensured the purchase of domestic products and protected domestic producers, and that taxes subsidies to farmers. and finally, it's no wonder that every second person in the world gets cancer because of cheap food imports, but the most important thing is that food importers continue to make their abnormal profits year after year that they don't have anywhere else.
dear chair, dear commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, artificial intelligence is already around us today, even more than we are aware of, in many everyday applications, applications and services, from social networks and internet search engines to medical diagnostics or smart transport. in any case, ai is already today the central technology of the new digital era, with the potential to fundamentally change and transform our societies. it is also clear that its widespread application does not come without danger. we have heard and heard a lot about protecting the fundamental rights of citizens in this debate today, and it is quite clear that we must expect new technologies to respect human dignity above all and to respect all those democratic european values in which we believe. at the same time, our development depends on our ability to adapt to new, often cruel times, the cruel times in which we live. we therefore need an approach that encourages uptake, that encourages european competitiveness and a faster and better uptake of new technologies. we owe it to the new generations to offer them exactly that, so that a high-quality, good life in europe is possible. this is not possible without the application of new technologies, it is not possible without the application of artificial intelligence. at the same time, we owe them a responsibility to manage our society and manage our future. so in any case, we support the right, efficient, better, higher quality application of ai, but with all those safeguards that will ensure that the human being remains at the center of its application and that we have a normal, european, balanced approach between those extremes that we unfortunately see when we look at the global situation.
blue-card speech. – so you said that people want us to resolve issues and problems. i agree with that. you said that people want to have bigger incomes, minimum pensions and things like that. i agree also with that. but why do think that unanimity will achieve that? why do think that getting rid of unanimity will lead the member states to actually share more powers with the smaller member states and that they will be willing to resolve problems. because i personally think if we have more qualified majority, the member states will have more powers to decide what is in their interests and not to share the powers and responsibilities with smaller member states. so why would people in, for instance, croatia have better results if we get rid of the possibility for croatia to have veto rights in the council?
the conference on the future of europe confirmed that citizens want greater powers for the european union in the field of health, the creation of a european data space to enable the exchange of health data and facilitate cross-border healthcare, the achievement of the european union's strategic autonomy in the production of medicines and a better system for deciding on the conditions of major health threats are priorities of european citizens. these are problems that member states cannot really solve alone and joint action is necessary in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. i am therefore pleased that by creating the european health union we are already responding positively to these demands. on the other hand, the conference suggested that unanimity in decision-making should be replaced almost entirely by qualified majority decision-making. there should be clarity. the right of veto is a useful instrument that ensures that member states protect their interests in certain strategic areas such as tax, social, military and so on. this is particularly important for smaller member states which, even in a common europe, have the right to preserve their own rights and identity. that's why we refrain from experiments that can only and exclusively create harm.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while we remain unanimous in condemning russia's invasion and in the need to intervene by the peaceful means at our disposal to stop this harmful war, it is clear that the continued sending of arms to ukraine is showing that the time for peace is not being shortened, but only the lines of the dead are being lengthened. if the arms shipment is aimed at weakening russia, then peace is far from being achieved. the escalation of tensions in diplomatic relations with russia is playing into the hands of warmongers who are 10,000 kilometres away from the conflict, the very same people who are not risking any energy penalty, but who are certainly pursuing their economic and geopolitical interests on the back of thousands of deaths. europe must courageously begin to live and exist independently, without being influenced in any way by anyone. we, on the other hand, if we continue with our present attitude, risk undermining the ambitious objectives we have set ourselves with the new green deal. the lack of energy sources needed for the transition will certainly not speed up the process, but will irreversibly undermine it, because buying liquefied gas from america at 30 per cent higher costs and, above all, with higher emissions from transport and extraction is not only a bargain for the usa and a slap on the wrist for europe, but it goes in the opposite direction to the environmental objectives set.
for the ecr group - mr president! i'm sorry, but i'm not going to tell you. in the field of transport, the european commission and the member states have done much more since the start of the war than, for example, in the energy sector. however, there are undoubtedly a number of issues which are of paramount importance in transport policy in the near future and in the medium term. we are currently reviewing the ten-t audit and therefore an irreversible geopolitical change must be made to this ten-t corridor project by deleting from it any kind of corridor investment related to the russian or belarusian direction and replacing it with the ukrainian, moldovan and georgian directions. secondly, the mobility budget and the mef are a mistake that the european council made by reducing the military mobility budget by four times, and they must be corrected, because ensuring military mobility throughout europe is more important than building a european army in the future. and there are quick, practical steps. first, the european commission should ensure that railways, inland waterways and highways can at least partially replace ukraine's capacity to export cereals and other types of agricultural products. the seaports are closed and will probably be closed soon. secondly, in the railway sector, sanctions will, however, in my view, have to be imposed on russian railways and, in particular, it is necessary to suspend russia's mandate in the organisation for cooperation on railways. and in aviation, undoubtedly we must use the boycott of the russian delegation election at the icao council meeting icao council election at the forty-first icao general assembly this year, which will be precise targeted painful short-term steps that show our seriousness in transport policy sanctions.
mr. chairman, please! peace, freedom, security and democracy are priceless, and the war in ukraine is the best example of this. the transport sector is one of the victims of the war and the necessary sanctions, as the commissioner has said. therefore, an economic and social assessment and strengthening and adequate financial support of this sector is necessary to ensure its smooth functioning in the internal market of the european union, but equally important is support for the transport sector in ukraine. another casualty of war that we must not forget is the transport sector. tourists are avoiding certain member states for fear of the consequences of war, such as poland, romania, slovakia, bulgaria and the baltic states. despite these challenges, and despite covid having affected the industry as well, the tourism industry is actively supporting refugees from war-torn ukraine and doing what it does best, which is organizing transportation, providing accommodation and feeding hundreds of thousands of ukrainian citizens. that is why i am appealing to the european commission to provide financial support to the transport sector and the tourism sector, but also to provide direct financial support to local self-government units, especially in poland, because these local self-government units support and help ukrainian refugees at the expense of their own revenues. this is a huge burden on local government budgets and they don't really have any support or financial assistance from anywhere.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this terrible war has been going on for 69 days, and all modes of transport have been affected, five different packages of sanctions have already been initiated. the suffering people of ukraine, to whom we extend our full solidarity and support. one of the most important measures is likely to be the strengthening of the rail mode in order to continue to help the people of ukraine quickly and above all better. this requires broad support, including financial support. all the destruction will have to be rebuilt and repaired after the war. and if we want to build ukraine together, then so that it becomes a model country in the field of the green deal. it requires a clear plan. mr cuffe has mentioned a marshall plan. we should follow the proposals of frans timmermans as the commissioner responsible for the green deal. and we can also call this plan the timmermans plan.
mr president, commissioner, european logistics is one of the victims of the illegal invasion of ukraine. all transport sectors are affected, both by the impact of the rise in energy prices and by operational problems affecting all modes of transport and the people working in the sector. i welcome the content of the resolution proposed by the committee on transport and tourism and encourage it to prioritise three aspects: direct attention to people whose jobs are at risk, support for businesses which in this terrible situation turn to supporting people fleeing the invasion and the review of the investment plans included in the ten-t to meet three objectives: strengthening the connection of the countries bordering ukraine, finding alternatives to the russian plan to control the main export and supply lines of ukraine and improving dual-use infrastructures to meet the needs of military mobility. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done in this area.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the russian aggression against ukraine since the end of february has put transport at the forefront of the agenda, whether for the transport of humanitarian material, foodstuffs of first necessity, particularly through seaports, or the transport and evacuation of refugees. freight and passenger transport are at the heart of the ukrainian resistance to the russian invader. the transport workers have been doing heroic work on the spot for over two and a half months. they are showing unfathomable courage to allow those still in ukraine to live and to allow those who want to flee to be safe. i would therefore like to express my warm thanks to all of them as chairman of the committee on transport and tourism. and where ukraine is suffering and can no longer organise the supply chain or transport refugees on its own, the european union must rise to the occasion, play its part fully and uphold the values of solidarity and fraternity that we hold dear. i therefore call on the authorities of the european union, our member states and our regions to do everything possible at european level to ensure that, between the european union and ukraine, people in need can be welcomed with dignity and that the necessary food can be delivered.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner! i am a deputy from the podkarpatie region, a region directly bordering ukraine. the podkarpaty is now a hub for eastern europe, through which millions of refugees are moving. although it is a safe region and free from the aggression of barbaric russia, the war has left its mark on it, especially on the economy of the region, and the region is experiencing many disturbances related to this war. and they show up in the fact that the owners of guesthouses, of all kinds of tourist facilities, are just facing bankruptcy. the european union's help is very much needed in this area, because the war is leaving such a clear mark on this very specific tourist industry. i would therefore like to appeal to the commissioner, to the honourable members, to think together about whether it is not worth creating a fund, launching a special budget line specifically for small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in the carpathian region, which will be able to benefit from this aid in order to protect jobs and be able to develop further. i strongly urge this and look forward to a serious discussion and the support of the european commission on this subject.
mr president, responding to the impacts and benefits of war in these areas requires that the first objective be to establish peace, to end a war that should not have started, by means of an immediate ceasefire and a political solution to the conflict, responding to the common security problems in europe, in accordance with the principles of the un charter and international law, in particular the final act of the helsinki conference. it is not by the option of escalating sanctions or by deepening the militaristic nature of the eu, with the focus on military mobility that the resolution promotes, that the answers to the problems identified will be found. options which the people and workers are already paying for and which will contribute to severe impacts on the transport and tourism sectors, with the speculative exploitation of economic groups to increase profits, imposing higher energy and fuel prices, the increase in the cost of living and inflation, with the aim of increasing the exploitation of ukrainian refugees in the tourism sector.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. she must be a woman. the shipping industry is the engine of europe's economy. in the past two years, the coronavirus has caused heavy losses, and now we have another crisis caused by russian aggression, disrupting already established supply chains and routes. in such a highly difficult situation, european union carriers must comply with the requirements of the mobility package, which was a highly divisive piece of legislation even in peacetime. in the current crisis, it is not only divisive but also aggravates the already difficult situation of the transport sector. we must not only speak of the position of the carriers, but act quickly to improve their situation. i therefore ask the commission to urgently examine the provisions of the mobility package that have entered into force and those that are yet to enter into force, their feasibility, their enforceability and to make proposals to improve the situation, because european carriers need concrete, tangible help now.
mr president, commissioner, we are at a turbulent moment in our history. europe, still recovering from a pandemic crisis, faces an unthinkable and unjustifiable war in the 21st century. obviously, the loss of human life is the main burden of the conflict, but alongside this humanitarian catastrophe, there are the economic effects that are beginning to be felt in various sectors. companies and households are experiencing the difficulties of price escalation in their financial management. the livelihoods of millions of people in europe depend heavily on transport, tourism and travel. travel agencies, airlines, cruise lines have all expressed enormous concern. we have approved an unprecedented set of sanctions on russia. it was imperative to do so in a clear show of support for ukraine and in defence of the freedom and democracy that they had fought so hard to win. as colleagues, it is urgent that we do not stop here. the risk of poverty in transport is also real. there are families who will not tolerate the high prices of goods and services. commissioner, what mechanisms are we planning to set up? what instruments will we put in place? how do you plan to mitigate the industry's impact on aviation? do you realize that the transportation industry, in addition to dealing with the effects of the pandemic and war, now has a herculean challenge to meet ambitious and demanding environmental goals? are you aware that there are outermost regions which depend almost exclusively on air and sea transport for the mobility of people, goods and services? i would like to end this debate with an appeal. we are working on the implementation of extraordinary support measures, short-term support and support for the measures of the european parliament's tourism task force: the european agency, a tourism funding line, the european crisis management mechanism. i end, mr president, with more sanctions against russia, more aid to the ukrainians and more concrete measures to support transport and tourism.
mr president, i would like to thank you. lieutenant! we know that the transport of people and goods across national borders is a vital building block for any country. transport is a prerequisite for the development and prosperity of societies. in times of crisis this fact becomes even more evident. we last saw it during covid-19. here vital supply chains were shut down, and people's connections to the outside world were severed. these are consequences that the world community is still suffering from. the eu's transport sector is the heart of the world community. we need transport by land, sea and air to continue. we have dedicated employees in the industry who every day pump life into even the smallest of nooks and crannies. as i stand here, putin continues his illegal war of aggression a few thousand miles from here, in territories we still hope to call ukraine tomorrow. i therefore call on the eu to continue to strike at the heart of putin's russia. only by blocking the vital transport routes of the eu and cutting off russia's connections with the outside world can we hope to stop its illegal war of aggression in ukraine.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the sectors most affected by the covid pandemic have been and are transport and tourism. unfortunately, the situation is repeating itself now because of this unfortunate war in ukraine. the fear of travelling, due to uncertainties about the future, inflation and the spiraling energy prices, is having a serious impact on the recovery of the european economy, particularly in the transport and tourism sectors. and it's clear that if the economic situation is not good, our citizens will not travel for the holidays. i therefore want to see immediate action, primarily legislative, but also tax relief, and this in cooperation with the sector alone, that is to say the transport and tourism sectors and the member states. these sectors, transport and therefore tourism, know very well what is bothering them and where we can help, with what measures and what activities. and so, please, commissioner, let's get on with it.
dear vice-president, commissioner, colleagues and colleagues, turkish philanthropist and entrepreneur osman kavala was sentenced last week in istanbul to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole on charges of attempting to overthrow the government, while seven of the accused were sentenced to 18 years in prison. kavala, a prominent turkish civil society figure, spent four and a half years in prison on charges of attempting to overthrow the government and president erdoğan by funding anti-government protests known as gezi park in 2013 and the failed coup in july 2016. according to the information available, the judicial proceedings were politically motivated and were characterised by a lack of evidence to support the unfounded accusations. the continuous delays in this process, including the merging of different cases and the creation of new ones after previous acquittal, cast a shadow on the respect for democracy, the rule of law and transparency in the turkish judicial system. in addition, i would like to point out that an investigation has even been launched against the three judges who released kavala in 2020 in the proceedings for which he was initially detained. in short, everything points to a rigged political process. in addition, the turkish authorities have been unable to provide any information on the case, and the turkish authorities have not provided any information on the case. the state of democracy and the rule of law in turkey is generally very worrying and has been regularly criticised in this regard. in addition, the failure of the coup in 2016 has led to further violations of fundamental human rights standards, media independence and civil society, with no prospect of a solution. in almost 20 years of rule, turkish president erdoğan has largely managed to bring the media and the entire public sphere under his control, all under the guise of fighting terrorism. in this context, kavala has become a symbol of dissent against the erdoğan regime, and the turkish authorities are using this to intimidate not only him but all remaining dissidents. the rule of law and fundamental human rights are the heritage of civilization that turkey must respect. i therefore believe that by voting for this resolution, the european parliament will show full solidarity with kavala and the rest of the convicts in this trial and clearly and unequivocally condemn the continued violation of the rule of law and fundamental freedoms in turkey.
mr vice-president, commissioners, colleagues, correcting market distortions is a key role of competition policy. the commission has also found that the digital giants are not able to compete with each other in the single market. such platforms regularly disadvantage small and medium-sized enterprises and deprive consumers of choice. the sanctions imposed on digital giants in recent years have been insufficient to deter them from breaching the rules of the single market. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a final decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. the problem of dominant players is particularly evident in the digital market, as reflected by the fact that of the ten thousand internet platforms participating in the eu digital market, the seven largest account for as much as 69% of total revenues in this sector. it is clear that in such circumstances there is no room for growth and development for european companies. the european parliament has therefore strongly supported the creation of a new ex ante control mechanism from the outset, which will make it possible to make the digital market more competitive and innovative. the new digital markets act protects consumers and businesses from the arbitrariness of the internet giants, and high financial and strict structural sanctions ensure its proper implementation. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new competition rules in the union.
you've hopelessly outlived your time. i tried to turn off the microphone, but it didn't work right away. but now i have to be strict. we have many speakers who are absolutely over-the-top.
madam president, we need to explore this notion of systemic and serious deficiencies on the rule of law because, for some reason, of things like the reiterated case of the european court of human rights on freedom of expression. spain is still persecuting people for insulting the king, and yesterday the belgian courts refused the extradition of jose arenas valtònyc just on these grounds. or, perhaps, the council of europe asking spain to stop criminalising legitimate political activity, to drop the extradition proceedings against me and my colleagues carlos puigdement and antoni comín i oliveres and refrain from sanctioning politicians for expressing solidarity. spain has done none of these in obedience to the recommendations of the council of europe. in fact, last week, the former president of catalonia was convicted again for the exhibition of a bayonet. so, mr reynders, when are you going to pay attention to what’s going on in spain? this is systemic, this is serious. next year, you will have additional data, like the pegasus case, that is affecting scores of catalan dissidents’ lawyers. my lawyer, during the process that led to removing my immunity in this chamber, was being spied on by spain as the process was going on. well, if this is not serious and systemic, what is it?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i always enjoy this debate. it always seems that we are moving the debate on the rule of law somewhere, and as the classic says: "it ends with the blowing of a bowler hat from one side to the other". in a state of law, it doesn't matter who's left, center or right. ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law is a value that we all agreed upon when we joined the european union, and since we agreed on it, we must respect it. after all, a person who is corrupt, who steals money, cannot claim to get more and more. in short, if someone does not respect the treaties, he must be punished. this report is a good tool, it's great. it covers everything from belgium to russia, it's all there. but you know what i miss? and that's just the gist of it. how are we gonna handle this? if something is wrong, we have to say in what time frame and what specific measures or recommendations we will take. and since you've all been talking for a long time and there's a long line of speakers, i'll finish at my allotted time and wish you a nice evening and a pleasant hearing.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament seems to take a devious pleasure in attacking those states which dare to resist the union's doctrine. the reintke report thus uses the examination of the situation of the rule of law in the union as a pretext to overtake the commission. it attacks poland and hungary in an incomprehensible way, at a time when these two countries are exemplary in welcoming millions of ukrainian refugees. and in paragraph 16 it dares to assert that the law of the union takes precedence over national constitutions, in defiance of the will freely expressed in those same constitutions by sovereign peoples. in the face of these claims, i would say that france and its european partners are not incapable of taking care of themselves and that the commission and parliament could reproach them on the basis of subjective and partial considerations. it is the states that are the real driving force behind european cooperation, and we must never forget this. it is the states that are the custodians of the sovereignty of the peoples and not the european union.
after the fall of the berlin wall, most of the communist elite structures remained in their positions - they are still professors in journalism studies or judges in the supreme and constitutional courts. communist policies before 1990 put them in these positions, and today they are protected by the autonomy of the universities, the autonomy of the judiciary and the autonomy of the media, in which they have a large ownership stake. and of course, they choose the people who will inherit them. the only countries that have been able to break this vicious circle and break the lasting influence of the communists on society are poland and hungary. so these countries have not broken the rule of law, they have established pluralism. your accusations are inconsistent and unjust. you don't mind, for example, that macron is threatening the independence of the judiciary in france, and for less you blame poland. you don't mind when the mayor of zagreb bans the flag of the walk for life and only allows lgbt flags and you accuse hungary and poland of lack of pluralism! allow hungary and poland to live a different worldview from yours and remember that the european union was founded on the idea of cooperation in diversity!
madam president, let me say a few words about the rule of law in croatia in 2021. as of 2021, croatia, with the permission of the commission, has invested one billion kuna in the restructuring of brodosplit, contrary to all the recommendations of the state audit office, which i have reported to all institutions. the eu has no comment on this. in 2021, the croatian minister of health paid for a radiation device of 11.2 million kuna, and the italian minister for the same device paid five million kuna. he's been booked. the eu has no comment. in 2021, the croatian minister of health paid a friend a failed site to get vaccinated, which designers do for 6-7000 kuna, million and one hundred thousand kuna. he's been booked. the eu has no comment. in the case of the former minister of agriculture tolušić, the amount of two and a half million kuna received from european funds for his winery. the eu has no comment. 2021 hdz is the party in power in croatia and has been convicted of a crime. i can't count on two fingers how many times he restructured the government for corrupting ministers and how many ministers were indicted for theft. if the european union were truly a centre of the rule of law, it would be the first to exclude this party, rather than rewarding them here with members and positions in european committees, councils and commissions. the rule of law here is a dead letter on paper. corruption is prized, and honesty is for fools.
madam chairman, the world is moving further and further away from economic equilibrium and equity. on the one hand, corporations led by investment funds like avantgarde, blackrock, state street and others, and on the other hand, from year to year, from crisis to crisis, more and more indebted states, indebted to banks owned by these funds. we've seen in recent years a huge capital allocation that's been pouring in towards the top. corporations are climbing the mountains of capital, and states are climbing the mountains of debt. with the help of algorithms and artificial intelligence and aided by enormous money printing, the funds have turned into monsters and even started buying private family homes. if these trends continue, in a few decades, there will be nothing left to buy. democracy itself is at stake. this directive on the provision of a global minimum taxation level for multinational groups is a weak attempt to establish this balance. i'm the first to tax the big ones. they have to give back a part of what they get because the system works on the basis of cooperation. facebook without your downloading is worthless. it's time for a change, and the dividends are due to all the cooperators in this system, not just the blackrock crew and their ilk.
madam president, while the entire european union is united in condemning the russian invasion of ukraine, serbia, which wants to become part of the european union, refuses to unequivocally condemn russian actions and impose economic sanctions. but the war in serbia is not unknown. it was from there that the aggression against the republic of croatia was launched in the 1990s, resulting in thousands of soldiers and civilians killed and huge material destruction. unfortunately, today serbia is still trying to destabilize neighboring countries like montenegro, which is often denied by pro-serbian circles the right to exist and its own identity. it is ironic that today official belgrade is assuring the western powers of its commitment to european values, and yet it is pursuing such a policy. it is therefore high time that the european union asked serbia to determine whether it really stands for european values or belongs to the east. one thing, however, is certain. no serbian hegemony supported by russian money and influence can and will pass.
mr. president, who is ultimately responsible for this war, for all this suffering? the term 'military authority' means the authority which, controlling the political or military action of a state, plans, decides and orders a military invasion against another sovereign state: article 8bis of the rome statute. there is no doubt that putin and the criminal top of the kremlin are responsible for this crime of aggression. we have an obligation to see that he doesn't go unpunished. that is why we are calling in this resolution for the member states to introduce the crime of aggression into their national legal systems, a necessary condition for the creation of a special ad hoc tribunal to bring putin and his criminal government to justice. ladies and gentlemen, either we condemn putin, or putin will condemn us to the threat of permanent war. we must also bring to justice the perpetrators of the material and the crimes, the perpetrators of the violations. this resolution is a message to putin: mr putin, impunity is not forever.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the massacre at bucha, the war rape, the bombing of hospitals, the deportation of children: the european parliament has been a witness to these horrors over the past few months and we cannot but demand justice for these atrocities which go beyond any possible and imaginable act of war. a war which, as we have been saying for months, is totally unjustified, intolerable. and so it is time to demand justice and to hold accountable those who committed, ordered these crimes against humanity. it was just hours ago that news broke of the arrival of 42 investigators and forensic experts to investigate possible war crimes against humanity. it is the largest team ever sent into the field in the history of the international criminal court, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is a very good start. there will be no peace and we will not have peace until all the horrible war crimes that we are still witnessing in these hours are punished. this is our commitment and our joint responsibility.
mr president, dear colleagues, every day we hear new evidence of russian war crimes in ukraine – military attacks, including on civilian targets, rape, torture, mass executions, forced deportations, looting and many other barbaric acts continue to be perpetrated against ukraine and its people. they remind us of some of the worst excesses of stalinism. we must ensure that these crimes are thoroughly documented, investigated and those responsible are brought to justice. that is why i welcome the setting-up of a un international commission of inquiry and the launching steps of the icc prosecutors’ investigation into war crimes and crimes against humanity. however, we must also do all in our power to establish a special tribunal for the punishment of crimes of aggression. we are witnesses of a tragedy that we thought we would never see, and to which we said ‘never again’. unfortunately, this is not the case, and we must stand up to those seeking to suppress human freedom and dignity. it’s our moral duty.
mr. chairman, i think it's time for the commission to ask itself who benefits from the policy it's pursuing towards russia. russian revenues from fossil fuel exports to the european union doubled in two months of war. we're talking about march and we're talking about april. so russia has allocated a total of 62 billion euros in those two months, of which 44 billion euros has been received from the european union countries, compared to 12 billion euros per month before that. and it will continue. all that money through government companies goes directly to the russian government. it's going to take years and years to build any other infrastructure. to make the humiliation worse, russia is now demanding, and more and more countries of the union are agreeing, that these fuels be paid for in their own russian currency, the russian ruble. i think it's time for the commission to re-examine whether this policy is counterproductive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european union is not very effective, the european union does not achieve anything, the european union fails in the big things. but that is not true, because if you look at the european union's sanctions policy in this current conflict between ukraine and russia, the european union is a master at shooting itself in the knee. it is not primarily the aggressor - namely putin - who is harmed, but the population itself is put at a corresponding disadvantage. we are already talking about the fact that the litre of fuel can go up to three euros, maybe four euros. gas prices are exploding accordingly. the price situation for the entire commodity chain explodes with the rise in the price of energy. you produce poverty, you produce a wave of inflation. and that is certainly the wrong way to go about it. the right course would be to stop this sanctions madness and do everything possible to de-escalate the situation, to bring about peace at last and not to add more fuel to the fire and to place such an undue burden on the european people.
mr. chairman, please! we all seem to understand that the fundamental problem with our energy policy is the discrepancy between long-term objectives and actions that need to be taken in the short term. and there's no telling how long that next time will be. the most pressing issue at present is the supply of non-russian hydrocarbons to europe. and that's the main problem. the question is, are we doing enough to actually do the things that are needed? well, i think not, that unfortunately we are not ready for that, and with the energy storage regulation agreed with the council today, we have lost an opportunity to send a clear signal and to immediately deprive russia of at least some of the revenues from the gas trade.
mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, mr. chairman, they are really directed at the half billion citizens of the european union and millions more of the rest of europe. if this were true, if it was to prevent the financing of the war, we would immediately impose the same sanctions on saudi arabia, which has been fighting in yemen for several years, we would not import oil and gas from the united states, which has been involved in more wars than any other country in europe and the world in recent decades. the only people who will be hurt and hurt are the citizens of the european union. let's stop making these crazy decisions.
the main challenges faced by the islanders, mr president, commissioners, colleagues and friends, are the lack of basic infrastructure, poor transport links with the mainland, high prices, a shortage of labour and a lack of sustainable economic activities that are not exclusively seasonal. all of this makes the island areas vulnerable to depopulation and underdevelopment, which is a huge problem. we must fight this with cohesion policy, with measures for economic development and with improvements in the availability of public services on the islands, and this very good report speaks to that. we need to offer the people of the islands a different perspective, beyond the tourist one, so that they are not completely dependent on the success or failure of the summer season. the commission has also proposed that the european union should provide a financial contribution to the development of the island of madeira, in particular through the european regional development fund. secondly, we need to encourage health workers to come and work on the islands and, in general, create a framework that will allow people to stay on the islands, especially our young people. finally, i would stress the importance of developing transport links and broadband internet as public services to help overcome the isolation faced by islanders. cohesion policy must be flexible enough to adapt to the specific problems of islands, because they are an important part of the european identity and we need to make them attractive for life in the 21st century.
the weather of unprecedented proportions, followed by a thunderstorm and strong wind on may 25th, hit the northern part of croatia, with the most damaged farms in varaždin, međimurje and krapinsko-zagorsko county. while we await the final assessment of the damage caused, we can already state with certainty that as a result of this weather, half of the flower production in croatia has been lost, that damage to crops and vegetables has been recorded, with greenhouses being particularly badly damaged. at this point, it is crucial to ensure that our farmers have a rapid recovery of agricultural land and production potential. the european agricultural fund for rural development is available through the rural development programme. and this unfortunate event has shown us the importance of european funds and eu membership. in the week when we are discussing the legislative package for the green transition, which aims to prevent the undesirable consequences of climate change, i also want to express from this place our solidarity with the croatian citizens who have been affected by this severe weather. thank you very much.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, dear citizens, declaring carbon dioxide and fossil fuels the enemy of the people is a completely insane move by the european union. on these fuels we have created modern civilization and have the standard we have. now, imposing huge new taxes on all producers, who normally emit co2 in the course of production, will lead to the collapse and catastrophe of the european economy. we're going to be completely uncompetitive to the rest of the world, and the impact on climate change, what we're going to do as 500 million people, is going to be completely negligible compared to the impact that nine and a half billion people make on the world. 30 years ago, the chinese lived in apartments without heat and rode their bikes because they couldn't afford better, and now, in the next 30 years, that's what we in the european union will do because we can't afford better.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in august 2008, russia committed an unjustified, almost unjustified aggression against georgia. it was under the previous presidency, under the french presidency. countries like the united states and the countries of my region, which are part of the european union, led by polish president lech kaczynski, were the ones who supported georgia in defending its independence. i would remind you that in the european union we were more in favour of the report by heidi tagliavini, which actually drew blame on both sides. it was then that the words of president kaczynski against russia were heard in tbilisi. history repeats itself. russia, led by france, has invaded ukraine. and again, the ones that are helping the most are the united states, and the united kingdom is also helping, and the countries in my region are helping. with a great role for poland, not only in accepting refugees, because we are also a hub for aid in all matters, humanitarian, but also military. the president-in-office said that we are moving, the union is moving at the pace of the weakest, those who are the freest. the problem is that the slowest are the strongest. and that's why i don't support qualified majority decision-making.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's foreign, security and defence policy can be summed up in a single sentence: the european union has become the 51st state of the united states of america, but without any voting rights.
on behalf of the s&d club, vice-presidents, commissioners, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. global threats to abortion rights are our reality. these threats didn't come yesterday, they won't go away tomorrow, and they don't just deal in abortions. they're much larger, more dangerous and more treacherous. many of you will remember the tireless debates we've had in this institution for years, which seem to have produced no concrete results, but over the years new bans have shocked us even more. we were also shocked by a draft opinion of the supreme court of the united states that, if implemented, would be a nightmare for many women throughout the country. more specifically, it would mean a situation in which 26 states would almost immediately or very quickly change their laws and make abortion illegal and unavailable. it would force women and girls to seek their health care across borders, from some unqualified individuals, and it would drive them into the realm of unsafe abortions, which, let me remind you, kill 23,000 women a year. for a country and a community that talks about freedom as a fundamental value, it's time to ask our colleagues in the united states where is the freedom to make decisions about one's own body, where is the freedom to have bodily autonomy and to be in control of one's own life and health. is she reserved for anything but women? and at the moment when we were writing this resolution and reading this terrible draft opinion in shock, our well-known colleagues from poland reminded us that these threats are not and do not come only from outside. in the european union, we have a country that's introducing a so-called pregnancy registry. the register will serve as another tool to criminalize and prosecute women and girls, as well as all medical professionals involved in the provision of abortion-related care. the threat to established human rights is strongest when it comes to women's rights, especially when it comes to the kind of rigid right-wing clerical and well-funded interest groups that think they can control everything, including our bodies. it is time to make it clear that they have no place in this issue, and to provide our partners in the united states with support to resist these efforts. because there are no successful democracies without respect for basic human rights and sexual and reproductive rights are certainly that. thank you very much.
the intervention requested by the blue card draw. thank you very much, chair. i didn't mean to answer, and i don't mean to replicate my colleagues, but i wanted to ask my colleagues on the right, listening to this story all day. so, have you noticed that we on this left side have never conditioned anything on you? if you're going to have a baby, you're not going to have a baby. you want to throw, you won't throw. are you going to go on a summer vacation, are you going to go on a winter vacation? if you're going to buy a car, you're not going to buy a car. but you've entered our homes, you've entered our women's underwear, and now, in the latest fashion, you're entering their bodies and their entrails. and you like to say you fight for life from conception to natural death. well, let's say, in this holy struggle of yours, i would recommend, and it's also a struggle for life, that you go to russia and tell putin not to send any more young boys over the age of 18 to their deaths. it's the same fight for life, but i didn't notice you going there.
mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. let me start with a quote: "the time has come to throw off the old ballast and prepare for the coming upheaval, which is so different from what we have imagined. the road ahead will be neither comfortable nor safe. but we must go through it, and we will go through it. yes, our task now is to open the way, to expand to meet the challenges of the 21st century. because everything is actually said in the debate: climate change, good working conditions, health union, especially with the experience of covid-19 and the pandemic, a consistency of values and the further development of values that drive citizens when they look at everyday life and the challenges of climate change, solidarity and peace with a view to ukraine and the russian war there. so let us take article 48 seriously, and especially point 2! let us start working together to discuss the different perspectives, objectives, issues and the promise we all made together in this room a month ago to put into practice the recommendations of the citizens. and for that we need article 48, and for that we need the convention. let's get to work. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question under the 'blue card' procedure)
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. mr president, i understand from your speech that you support this subject and i support it too, at least from two points of view: the fact that parliament has no right of legislative initiative and the fact that my country is left out because only one country is opposed, with unanimity in the council. but i ask you, do you think we should move towards a federal union or remain a union of states with subsidiarities and national constitutions?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think that article 48 (2) is the right way to discuss this issue with each other. i personally can well imagine a federal europe. we have a debate in our party, for example, on the european republic. we discussed a europe of regions without nation states 20 years ago. we have talked about a europe of citizens. so there are very different ideas. i believe that the convention is the right way to discuss these issues with citizens and with organised civil society.
ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendments to the treaty on european union, which include the european council no longer taking decisions by unanimity but by means of a reconsideration, have radically changed the very nature of the european union. the question needs to be asked: would all the countries that are now members of the european union agree to be members? how many eu citizens really want such a change? it's only fair to organize a referendum initiative. european regulations know this. gather at least a million signatures in at least seven countries and organize for eu citizens to have a say on this. we will find ourselves in a situation where the fundamental national interests of individual countries will be called into question by the vote. and we can't do that without the citizens. (the speaker agreed to respond to the intervention request by raising his blue card)
respond to the intervention requested by raising the blue card. citizens of the european union that is, all of us, whether members of political parties, independent members of parliament or citizens who are not involved in politics at all but are members of various associations have the right to take any initiative and to ask the european commission to act in this regard. so i don't see any problem with that. what we're talking about is a violation of citizens' rights.
the intervention requested by the blue card draw. you're talking about a fundamental change in the contract. i don't know if you know that already more than 90% of the acts in the council are passed by qualified majority rather than unanimously. so that's my question because it's about tracking which are the areas that you think are critical to stay in state jurisdiction in the sense that it's decided unanimously. or do you feel that everything should be decided by unanimity as opposed to the situation today where more than 90 percent of decisions are made by qualified majority?
respond to the intervention requested by raising the blue card. so we all know what unanimous means. unanimous means: we are all equal, we are all equal. when it's decided by the majority, the little ones are never equal. we know that. we have seen this in yugoslavia, we have seen it in the soviet union, and this is something that must never happen to us. and these proposals are going in that direction.
mr. vice president, vice president, ladies and gentlemen, the founding treaties have always attracted public attention and been the subject of controversy. in this sense, the conference on the future of europe has gone a step further by enabling a number of citizens to express their own vision of the future of the union. in the context of a pandemic that has affected all member states, it is therefore not surprising that citizens want to increase the powers of the european union in relation to health by amending the treaty. as an mep who is active in health policy-making, i strongly support strengthening the eu's role in health by creating a european health union. in particular, i believe that the protection of public health, particularly in relation to those problems which cannot be solved by the states alone, should be included in article 4, but also that article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union should be amended, thereby strengthening the eu's competences in this area. on the other hand, caution should be exercised in reforming the decision-making system, especially if such reform would involve replacing the unanimity system with qualified majority decision-making. the right of veto ensures that member states' interests are protected in their strategic areas, and this is particularly important for smaller member states, which also have the right to preserve their own rights and identity in a common europe. i am therefore not inclined to experiment and believe that the european union can achieve its key objectives within the framework of the existing decision-making system. the vast majority of union acts are already adopted by the ordinary legislative procedure by a qualified majority of the member states, and that is quite sufficient.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what do a car, a t-shirt, a computer, and a banana have in common? all of them would have to show signs of forced labor. the suffering of people is hidden in the opacity of global supply chains. worldwide, it has been said, 25 million people are forced to produce certain products and goods. many of these products are also sold here in the eu. how long are we gonna look the other way? we believe that the products of modern slavery and forced labour have no place in the european market. and european companies should not profit from human rights violations. i mean, european citizens want to be sure when they buy that no one has suffered to make this product. far too many companies have failed to take the necessary steps to tackle the problem voluntarily. that is why i think, madam vice-president, that the commission must finally act. we need three key instruments that together will make a difference: a strong import ban, solid, binding and enforceable corporate due diligence legislation and the binding un convention on economic and human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam vice-president, slavery should be a thing of the past, relegated to the darkest pages of history books, but unfortunately it is still very much alive today because there are 25 million people in the world who are in conditions of forced labour, and three quarters of them are women and girls. the commission is about to present a new regulation which will remove goods produced by forced labour from the market. i am proud of that, because i think that is what international trade is all about. but for this tool to work, it must be applied to the entire production process and not just to the finished products. i would therefore like to ask what the scope of this regulation will be, how the commission intends to ensure that the rules are actually complied with, because the situation in the textile sector has exposed all the shortcomings of the international audit and certification systems, even in the face of serious and repeated infringements. finally, we must ensure that those who carry out checks have all the resources they need to investigate, because this regulation must not remain a set of good intentions that cannot be applied, but must work to make trade fairer and cleaner.
mr president, commissioner, 9 june 2022: as we are holding this debate, 25 million people are suffering from forced labour in the world. most of them are women, children, displaced people and the most vulnerable groups in society. for the social democrats, the eradication of forced labour in all its variants, worldwide, is a high priority, because few things are more important than ensuring decent working conditions. the european union is striving to achieve this in its internal action and in its foreign and trade policy by supporting the rules of the international labour organisation and their implementation in our trade agreements. but it's not enough. to eradicate once and for all this savage scourge of forced labour we need to equip ourselves with new and more effective tools. we therefore support and reiterate our call on the commission to present urgently to this parliament a powerful instrument to prohibit the entry into the european market of goods produced or transported under conditions of forced labour. there are no exceptions. other advanced societies have these instruments; europe must act urgently. europe cannot allow some countries to base their development on the slave labour of their citizens. it cannot accept that european companies collaborate with contractors in third countries who enslave their workers. no one should accept that people in a position of weakness are exploited by others who make a petty profit from it. our aspiration for the effectiveness of this instrument is not directed at any one country, it is a universal aspiration. but, of course, we have all seen the terrible images of the situation of the uighur people in china. we hope our performance will alleviate this immediately. we therefore urge you to present this instrument to parliament.
a uachtaráin, a dhaoine uaisle, beidh mé ag labhairt gaeilge. (a uachtaráin, a dhaoine uaisle, will mé ag labhairt gaeilge.) i was born in the irish countryside, in the village of uachtaráin, which is in the county of uachtaráin. the laws in the current and future forms of the xinjiang police service cannot be taken into account for the continuing inactivity of the european union. we can at least guarantee that citizens will not be co-operating in the misuse of products that the shaothar will have to buy for themselves. but we're not in the business of enforcing laws on unpaid bills. in this regard, the united states shall not allow the importation of goods into xinjiang, but may require the laws of the importing country to provide for the production of goods in the territory. i am worried about what we are going to do in the products we are bringing to europe. however, the commission must examine the effective measures to be taken to address this legislation.
mr president, commissioner, a year and a half ago the commission and the council were presenting the investment agreement with china as a success, when there was already persecution and repression in hong kong. almost exactly one year ago, this parliament blocked the discussion of the investment agreement with china and forced the commission to integrate the issue of forced labour into the european debate. this is good news, and today we are indeed both strengthening corporate responsibility, but also thinking about a much more powerful and much more systematic instrument on forced labour, which affects 25 million workers, and particularly women workers, worldwide. it is all the better if european trade policy begins to evolve. but in xinjiang, forced labor is not just modern slavery, it is an instrument that participates in a genocidal strategy. and so we must immediately and very quickly, at european level, impose an embargo on imports from xinjiang, where all sectors are affected by forced labour. an embargo on imports from xinjiang!
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this debate, i think, is sounding clear. we all support the legislative proposal being put forward as soon as possible. we are a community of values and the protection of human rights is for us one of the key themes of our common life in europe. the question is therefore to submit the proposal as soon as possible. it is truly shameful that for over a decade there has been a debate about whether the proposal should be tabled and approved. and of course, it's important to talk about the specifics of the design. we must adopt a proposal that is effective, that cannot be circumvented, because it is obvious that there are huge profits to be made from this kind of business, from forced labour, and that those who exploit this business will not like our ban. it is therefore important to know the specific form of the legislation in order not to be able to circumvent it. and second, to have a system of law that doesn't administratively bully decent businessmen. so today the european parliament has sent a clear signal: we want to ban this. and i ask the commissioner and the european commission to have a debate here as soon as possible in the autumn on what this particular legislation should look like. it was said here that 25 million people are working in forced labor. this is a gross violation of their human rights. i find the case of china and the uighurs in particular most frightening, because there it is not just a question of economics, but also the political liquidation of this minority, this nation.
mr president, many have pointed out the high rate of forced labour in europe. this shows that it is a long-standing, persistent problem, which is currently receiving additional attention because of the situation of the uyghurs in china. i agree that the problem in china is even bigger. of course, this is not just about forced labour, but also about an organized regime that oppresses its people. some people, perhaps rightly, speak of genocide. it is therefore high time that we tackled this problem. this is something we as a parliament can be proud of. the commission's work has been initiated on our initiative and we expect it to be a powerful instrument. in addition to the size of farms, which is often irrelevant, the areas where the greatest risks are found should also be considered. it is clear that we must combine a ban on forced labour with due diligence and ensure that this approach is reflected in our trade agreements. finally, we in the european union must also take responsibility for solving this persistent problem once and for all.
president, the eu cannot be a market for products produced by modern slavery. we must take responsibility and ban products that can be associated with forced labour. i would therefore ask you to put this matter to work as soon as possible. we know that such a ban is not only possible but also effective. we can see this in the countries that have gone before us, such as the usa and canada, where tens of millions of euros have already been paid out in compensation to victims. the european parliament, with the greens as its driving force, is very clear in its call for the cessation of border trafficking and for victims and ngos to be able to lodge complaints, so that authorities can detain products on that basis and, when forced labour is no longer in existence, only release them after it has been established that the victims have received compensation. we can really make a fist at the uyghur labor camps in china. europe must create a powerful trade instrument to ensure that the products of forced labour are no longer on the shelves of european shops.
mr president, you would have hoped that it would not be necessary to ban forced labour, and not only out of moral decency, but also because nearly every country in the world has ratified the ilo forced—labour convention. but as everyone before me has already explained, a trade instrument to ban forced labour is urgently needed. look at what’s happened in qatar and look at what is happening in china. president von der leyen announced such an instrument almost a year ago in her state of the union, and nevertheless, we are still waiting. the longer we wait, the higher our expectations become. we do not want a proposal with legal and technical loopholes that companies could slip through, and i therefore call upon the commission to finally show some ambition. companies will only change their business model when faced with consequences. people must be put before profits.
mr president, commissioner, i must say that i am very pleased that we have come to this subject, but as was said here, if it has taken 10 years to discuss the finding of a tool, i hope it will not take another 10 years to implement it. because, you see, we've discussed an important topic before. parliament has no legislative initiative and we are at the mercy of the commission: whether or not it takes over our resolutions. life is a priority, commissioner, and you know this well: if we wait 10 years for a decision, we lose the citizens' trust. yes, forced labour must be excluded, not only from third countries, because they are in a way competing with producers in the european union, from the internal market, but it must also be eliminated within the internal market, because i have enough examples of citizens from the east being forced into indecent labour, not to mention in other countries. that's why i'm asking you to come up with a proposal, so that we have a commercial tool for eliminating forced labor.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, only a few comments. first of all, the commission aims at adopting the legislative proposal after the summer break, as many of you asked. the initiative requires urgent action, which does not allow us to prepare an impact assessment, but the commission will publish the evidence, as i said earlier, in a staff working document. we published a call for evidence on 23 may, and it is open for public feedback until 24 june. we encourage stakeholders to submit comments. all of us know that combating forced labour is nothing new. our trade agreements commit our partners to signing and effectively implementing the ilo fundamental conventions, including on forced labour. company law instruments and proposals oblige companies to report on forced labour and address it in their operations and supply chains. moreover, our anti—trafficking directive from 2011 ensures that member states penalise human trafficking and forced labour. and to conclude, i do appreciate the valuable comments and questions raised in this debate today. it is clear that we have the same objective. combating forced labour and promoting due diligence standards are priorities of the european union’s agenda on business and human rights. we are looking forward to further exchanges with you on this issue. thank you mr president, thank you honourable members, thank you mr lange, so we are looking forward to having legislative proposals soon.
madam vice-president, thank you very much for your reply. the debate was closed with a motion for a resolution. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 9 june 2022. the meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. it will be resumed at 12 noon with the vote. the following table is presented in order of appearance: see minutes of the sitting. (the sitting was suspended at 11.46 a.m.)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
congratulations, i will transmit this to the council.
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 12.29)
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. is there any objection? (the minutes were approved)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on the illegal logging in the eu by dolors montserrat, on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-000020/2022 b9-0016/22) (2022/2523 ((rsp)). i would remind you that, with the exception of the first two rows, which are reserved for the group chairmen, there is free choice of seats. after you have inserted your voting card into the voting machine, you can then apply for spontaneous word messages and blue cards via your voting machine. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be dealt with from the central podium, with the exception of spontaneous speeches, blue cards and comments on the application of the rules of procedure.
the author's substitute. mr president, more than two thirds of european citizens believe that climate change affects them on a daily basis. more than half of europeans consider climate change the main challenge for the future of the union, and 87% agree that fighting climate change means improving their own health and well-being. nine out of ten young europeans are extremely strong on environmental protection. you might think that 2024 is still a long way off, that the electorate can still be fooled, that the environment is less important than other issues, that the world will forget by then who is voting in the european parliament or in the national parliaments. well, all the eurobarometers, all the studies commissioned by the commission, all the national polls clearly show that you are wrong. people want more from parties and politicians. they want results, not promises. they want laws enforced, not speeches. they want real change, not election campaigns. people living year after year with severe drought, record temperatures, devastating floods, tropical storms in temperate areas, landslides and all the other extreme phenomena that have taken between 90 and 140 thousand lives in europe in recent decades. hundreds of journalists, activists, integrity watchers have been attacked and even killed while trying to protect forests and natura 2000 areas from loggers. ignoring the issue of illegal logging, we vote against greenhouse emissions. we do not want to change anything that is happening now in the union, not just in romania, hungary or austria. we're not defending these people, their families, their children. we don't vote with the citizens in mind, who we have a duty to represent, but with individual and group negotiations in mind, with party lines, beliefs or personal interests in mind. and that is why citizens all over the union are punishing us, punishing us with absenteeism, with vote-blaming, with support for extremist parties and anti-european currents. now, we all know that illegal logging is not just environmental crime. the degree of destruction and the levels at which this scourge affects us is a crime, and the victims are not just us, but all future generations. european citizens have understood this long ago. i'm sending it to us through a number of petitions and initiatives that i'm sure you're all receiving. if you think that illegal logging doesn't exist in your country, you're wrong. what is cut in other european countries ends up in the single market, what is stolen in one member state costs us all - billions and billions of euros a year. if you think that this scourge is punishable in your country, europol shows you with figures that you are wrong. if you think that the polluted environment, the destroyed biodiversity and all the climate change stops at your borders, again, you're wrong. and why then do some colleagues and some parliamentary groups still refuse to punish illegal logging at european level? that's what i'm wondering. the citizens are also asking. that's what the press asks us after every vote in the committees and in the plenary. why is it that in 2022 we still do not have a single european regime and a specialised european institution for such a crime? why is it that in an area where the union has competence we do not want to legislate, even though this is our mandate given by vote from the european citizens who pay us? i have called for and insisted on the establishment of the european green prosecutor because illegal logging in one country affects the whole union. please support this motion for a resolution and the associated question as additional steps to move closer to the objectives of the green plan and to combat the environmental crimes that kill european citizens. it's affecting all of our health and it's jeopardizing our children's future.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first i would like to thank the petitions committee for adding this oral question to this week’s plenary agenda and for giving us the opportunity to discuss today this highly important topic. let me start by stressing the commission is strongly committed to protecting and restoring existing forests worldwide and that the protection of forests features very highly on our political agenda. this eu forest strategy, which we adopted last year, which is anchored in both the european green deal and the eu diversity strategy, builds on the multiple roles played by forests for the climate, biodiversity, society and the economy. it strives to ensure that our forests deliver on all those fronts. our goal is to overcome the challenges related to climate change and biodiversity loss and at the same time to promote the bio—economy to unlock the potential of forests for our future. if we want the european union to succeed in its transition towards sustainability, we will need forests that are bigger, healthier and more resilient than today. in this spirit, the forest strategy shows how increased climate and biodiversity ambitions can go hand-in-hand with economic prosperity. it is a realistic strategy, which also acknowledges that our forests are under threat. we have seen how, during the pandemic, illegal logging actually increased in the european union. the eu forest strategy for 2030 states explicitly that the implementation and enforcement of our relevant acquis to protect forests needs to be stepped up, and the commission is determined to play its role as guardian of the treaties. over the past years, where we concluded that eu legislation was not properly implemented, we have launched infringement procedures against the member states concerned, for example, poland, slovakia, romania and estonia. in your oral question, you ask how the commission plans to assess the extent of illegal logging and the economic losses it causes within the european union. in relation to the economic losses linked to illegal logging, we do not have official recent estimates, but we can see from various data sources that it could be substantial. a study of the world bank gives estimates of foregone tax revenue due to illegal logging for 2017 europe without russia. it estimates that between usd 19 million and usd 380 million in tax income was lost. the eu timber regulation remains the eu’s primary tool for preventing illegally logged timber entering eu markets. the commission assesses the correct enforcement of eu timber regulation by member states on the basis of their annual reporting of relevant, substantiated concerns and trade data. in addition, the commission relies on satellite images available to evaluate illegal logging in protected natura 2000 sites, and on reports from civil society on the ground. we will continue to work closely with member states to develop other relevant initiatives and tools, including under the framework of the regulation of deforestation, which the commission proposed in november 2021. the regulation of deforestation will eventually replace the timber regulation and expand reporting obligations by member states. it proposes reporting on the content of checks, their follow up, country of origin and production of timber. this will allow the commission to better assess the quality of member states’ enforcement activities. let me now turn to the second part of your oral question concerning the compliance of member states with their commitments to restore areas deteriorated by illegal logging. the commission has opened several infringements against member states to address illegal logging that has taken place in natura 2000 sites in breach of the habitats directive. in these cases, the commission has asked member states to restore deteriorated areas and to present a restoration plan. on this basis, the commission will carefully assess the delivery of such commitments using both satellite intelligence and field evidence as appropriate. lastly, on the publishing of the detailed assessment of all forest management plans in member states, we plan to do this through the new legislative instrument on eu forest monitoring plans for 2023. furthermore, the assessment will consider how to support and advice foresters in setting up those plans. in parallel, the commission is using geospatial intelligence to assess individual cases where there might be a risk to compliance. for example, geospatial intelligence is increasingly being used by the commission to assess complaints about natural forest habitat deterioration in special areas of conservation. finally, the commission is also developing the eu observatory on deforestation and forest degradation, which investigates changes in the world’s forest cover and associated drivers. honourable members, thank you for your attention, and i look forward to your questions and comments.
on behalf of the renew club. dear vice-president of the commission, dear colleagues, we are living in difficult times and we all know it. energy prices, whether we're talking about oil, gas or electricity, are going up, commodity prices are going up, food prices are going up. this, of course, raises the cost of living and doing business. we have the highest inflation ever and it is logical that companies, craftsmen, people, citizens are coping in all kinds of ways, but this is not and should not be an excuse for disregarding the law and for illegal logging, for destroying forests. profit and short-term solutions, or earnings, should never be above sustainability and the law, but unfortunately in many cases today, only profit has become important. i therefore propose that the commission, together with the member states, the regions and the cities, should work together to bring order to the area. it is not a question of illegal logging or, for example, of illegal construction, especially in mediterranean countries, which again irreversibly destroys the most important resource, which is, of course, space. so the principle is the same. the law must be respected and i am sure that the member states and the regions want to work together with the commission to solve this problem. and again, we need to work together whether we're talking about illegal logging or whether we're talking about illegal construction. and that's why i propose that we use the resources of the state, the region and the city, and that's first of all people, that's first of all mechanisms and their knowledge of the situation on the ground to respect and enforce the laws. in this partnership, or synergy effect, it will be easier to detect those places of non-compliance. it will also make it easier to sanction offenders and, most importantly, preserve both nature and the environment for future generations in the long term.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr prime minister, on behalf of the green group, welcome to the european parliament. last sunday, i was debating with pyotr tolstoy, the deputy chairman of the duma, the russian parliament. he said that he did not care if ukraine became a candidate for the european union, because if everything went well, within a year ukraine would no longer exist. that's what he said! he was calling a new yalta in europe. in other words, we had the russian authorities, and you have just denounced it, reaffirming the brezhnev doctrine, that of unlimited sovereignty. in other words, there are states, the superpowers, which can be sovereign and the others have only to submit to the will of these great powers. this is what is called, in other words, imperialism. nothing could be further from this concept than the idea, which you have just underlined, of shared sovereignty. a sovereignty freely shared. and i would like to say how touched i was to see that after the dismemberment of the former yugoslavia and the nationalism that was expressed during the war, as you said, croatia was chosen. choosing to be european, choosing to give up... i would not say to give up, but to share its newly acquired sovereignty with some 30 other states here in europe. and the fact that croatia is joining the euro, joining schengen, continues to make me happy. i was a member of the european parliament when your country became a member and i remain absolutely convinced today that the european union is the governance of the future. i would like to say to you, perhaps because it is up to friends to express their respective concerns, two things, two concerns i have about what is happening in your country. of course, i hope that all the member states will be exemplary in all respects. there are two things i would like to say. the first is how eu funds are allocated in your country. i think that too often european money is allocated on a first-come, first-served basis rather than on the merits of the projects submitted. the value of the european budget, the value of european projects, is precisely to be able to do together what each of us cannot do alone. in these projects, you will not be surprised to hear that green reminds you of the challenge of the ecological transition to respect the biophysical limits of the planet. croatia is also at the forefront of climate change, but also has enormous potential in terms of renewable energy. and so, i would very much like croatia to be a pioneer in this transition. second point of concern: you have spoken about accession to the schengen area. as you know, because i told you when we came to zagreb for the opening of the croatian presidency, we continue to receive substantiated messages that there are still violent pushbacks at the country's borders. you promised us at the time that this would be investigated and that it would stop if anything illegal was going on, but we continue to receive these messages and so our concern remains. yes, absolutely, croatia has its place in schengen, but not at the price of contributing in some way to making europe a fortress. i would like to conclude, mr prime minister, on a slightly more personal note. for over 30 years, i have had the pleasure of having a brother-in-law of croatian origin. he's in the stands as we speak. her father, originally from varaždin, came to belgium in the 1960s, was a construction worker, but he always had a passion for writing. one of his many works is a vivid description of the reality of life in yugoslavia in the 20th century. in it, he describes his visceral attachment to his ancestral land, where he returned to live the last chapter of his life, to its customs, its religion, its family values. so i know he cares about you, and i know he'll be proud to receive this work from my hands.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. let us talk about europe, because there are things to change and we must talk about them. we need an eu that opens up, and that includes - that is my position - first of all bringing all the countries of the former yugoslavia into the eu on an equal footing, as full members. it's time to do this. we need an eu that not only leaves the big guys in charge, but above all gives citizens a say, and an eu - you have indicated this - that fights poverty: we talk about food prices, energy prices and much more; i think that we need to do more. and i say this: nothing is nothing without freedom and democracy in this europe. it starts with the fact that in all member states - including yours and mine, i say this quite openly - women are granted the right to self-determination over their bodies and in this case abortion is accepted and not sabotaged. it's just one of those simple things that we still don't have a handle on. the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and the rule of law. i've been to your country many times, many times. and i tell you, it's unbearable how refugees are treated there - i can't stand to see it - who are really pushed back every day, over and over again. how does that fit in with your positive statement about welcoming ukrainian refugees with open arms which i consider very, very important? it doesn't fit. i cannot explain to the afghan soldier on the bosnian-croatian border who has fought the taliban for years why he is not allowed to enter the eu, nor to the nigerian christian woman who is being persecuted in her country. we have to change that. we must put an end to this policy of double standards. and because it is, i'm going to give you the work of a lot of ngos: it's a black book on pushbacks and many other things. it is not just croatia that is at stake, but many european countries. please let's talk about these issues and really make a difference!
dear president, dear mr. plenkovic, the recession in croatia has reached its highest level. it's all right. this is the policy that you are pursuing with your organization, which has been condemned by the courts, and it is perfectly legitimate because the citizens of our country have chosen it. most of the parties in our croatian assembly have raised their hands for sanctions against russia. so you had the support of your party and the opposition parties in the croatian parliament. so you can't really blame yourself for the recession that's hit us. of the 195 countries in the world, only 45 have imposed sanctions on russia, and all of them are suffering the consequences, but it is the will of the citizens and there is no objection. however, i am not only concerned with short-term politics, but also with long-term politics. i investigate corruption, i collect, i listen to citizens, i report, i build a network into which your corrupt members and your closest associates fall one by one. you may have a certain support today from the people, the croatian citizens, who are selected by information and who do not know the truth and the whole truth, but the one that you and your protectors want to show. but let's not forget, bulgarian prime minister boyko borisov had the support of state institutions and the media. the trials against him dragged on for 13 years, and brussels unfortunately had his back. and then the bulgarian people saw through it, and they took to the streets in 2020. protests have been going on for months in sofia. angry bulgarian citizens stopped me on the streets of brussels and begged me for help. come to sofia. why does the eu tolerate so much corruption in bulgaria? i was a speaker at those bulgarian protests and i was doing my part to fight crime. in the end, mr. borisov fell from power. brussels turned its back on him and he's in jail today. it's time, mr. plenkovich, that you ask yourself who's laughing last, mr. plenkovich.
the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council of ministers has adopted a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights (fundamental rights agency) in order to ensure the effective functioning of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fundamental rights agency). in this sense, it is a good sign that the croatian national minority, among others, now has its representative in the executive, a minister in the government of montenegro. this is extremely important because croats in montenegro are an autochthonous minority that cherishes and preserves their traditional customs and rich cultural heritage. however, what continues to burden montenegro is the participation of anti-european political forces that call into question the very existence of the montenegrin nation and identity. these unacceptable ideas coming from belgrade are part of the hegemonic concept of the serbian world, and supported to a large extent by russia. it is therefore crucial that the montenegrin government resolutely opposes the idea of a serb world, and it is up to us to offer montenegro help and a clear european perspective.
rapporteur. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the devastating russian missiles, tanks and sirens on 24 february marked the beginning of the russian regime's bloody aggression against ukraine, but also the beginning of a new era in european history. over 13 million ukrainians, whose homes have been leveled by shellfire or lack water, food, electricity, have been forced to flee their homes in four months of war devastation. nearly six million, mostly women and children, have sought safe haven in european union countries. we have a human and civilized commitment to help them, and that is the main purpose of the budget amendment and the report i am presenting to you today. the changes provide the bulk of the 400 million euros to help receive and register ukrainian refugees. concrete solidarity, financial, logistical, humanitarian aid, as well as any other form of support to the ukrainian people who are fighting for their freedom, for their survival, is a human and moral obligation of the whole of europe. the brutal russian aggression that can have no justification will leave long-lasting consequences not only on ukraine, but also on europe and on our european finances. we are aware of this and therefore must take all measures in time to mitigate the consequences, whether it is to care for refugees, to ensure energy supplies or to protect food supplies. the main measure that we have already stressed here in the european parliament is that new and adequate financial resources must be secured. this certainly includes an in-depth analysis of the current multiannual financial framework and its, hopefully soon to be revised, taking into account the long-term consequences of the war in ukraine, but also the simple long-term unsustainability of the current funding mode and the current overload of many european programmes which are simply necessary and without which we cannot do. we are facing a true test of civilization, which requires a common and unified response from all of europe, but also a test of our readiness to respond concretely, tangibly and with sufficient financial resources to all the current humanitarian challenges, but also to all that lies ahead of us, and i think it is not too much of a secret and that it is quite obvious that the months ahead will be quite difficult and that this will certainly have an impact on this financial aspect. ukraine needs a lot more than that right now. and of these 400 million euros, which is a big deal, which will certainly help to take care of ukrainian refugees here in europe, but they need, and that's why i absolutely support it, unambiguous support for the european aspirations of the ukrainian people that we expect tomorrow at the council meeting. thank you very much, dear colleagues, honourable commissioner. i think we're doing a good thing with this step, a good thing for ukrainian refugees, and that these 400 million euros will provide one first aid in the right reception, but also in the registration of ukrainian refugees.
after nine years of membership of the european union, croatia is on the verge of achieving another strategic objective. the accession to the euro area will remove transaction costs and currency risk, from which croatian exporters and tourism will benefit the most. the very announcement of the euro has already led to an increase in the national credit rating, which allows for lower interest rates for businesses and citizens. also, by this step, as well as by joining schengen, croatia has shown a will for even closer integration into the european community of peoples and states. in general, we can say that joining the eurozone represents a great benefit for the croatian economy and society as a whole. meeting the conditions for the introduction of the euro, especially those related to public debt and deficits, was not easy. the commission notes that the hungarian authorities have not provided any evidence that the debt was not repaid. we have shown that economic policy can be conducted in a way that promotes economic growth, but without excessive and unsustainable budgetary spending. the introduction of the euro is a major achievement for the republic of croatia and it is therefore a pleasure to support this report and to thank the rapporteur sincerely for his work.
mr president, thank you very much to your colleagues for your support, but also for recognising the enormous progress, the enormous efforts of the croatian government in meeting all the demanding criteria for the introduction of the euro. i must also answer, mr ilčić, because it is obvious that some people today, unfortunately, forget that the kuna was never an end in itself, but a tool for a better quality of life for croatian families. if we can do this better, more strongly with the euro today, and there is no question about that, i see no reason why we cannot. currency is always a tool of an economy, and can never be just its ornament. croats still save in euros, exporting and importing companies do business in euros, and because of the euro, we already enjoy a record credit rating. with the euro, but also with the record european resources at our disposal that encourage entrepreneurship and innovation, digitalisation is a truly first-class generational opportunity that we must seize with strength, ambition, attractiveness and openness. because we can and because the croatian people deserve it!
dear chairman, thank you very much. as part of its 'field to table' strategy, the european commission announced that it will present new rules on front-of-pack labelling this year. it is clear that this will enable consumers to obtain the most important information on the nutritional value of the product in a clear and fair manner. now, this information is printed in small letters on the back of the pack, which is why i often hear consumers complaining that they have difficulty finding it. however, i would like to warn the commission from this place that food labels can be easily manipulated. for example, the nutri-score label ranks a carbonated beverage with artificial sweetener, such as coca-cola, as more desirable in terms of nutritional value than virgin olive oil, which is highly unacceptable. i therefore call on the commission once again to take account of the specific characteristics of olive oil when drawing up its proposal for labelling and to prevent consumer manipulation. we must work together to preserve the mediterranean diet, of which olive oil is an essential ingredient.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. at first glance, home office seems to be a practical alternative. on the other hand, the many people working from home during the covid-19 pandemic has had a major impact on the mental health of many. these months have shown the importance of social contacts, work-life balance and the right to shut down. the digital world of work includes the group of platform workers, whose work is regulated by algorithms and remote management. the result: precarious work assignments that lead to performance pressure and financial anxiety, and a sense of constant surveillance. all of this can lead to depression or mental illness. it is therefore high time that the european commission proposes a european strategy on mental health that addresses the many facets of mental health and takes into account the challenges of the digital world of work.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, mental health is closely linked, according to numerous studies conducted over the past two years, to physical health. mental health impaired by severe fear leads to severe illness and in extreme cases, it leads to and is a direct cause of death. in croatia, we have one confirmed death from the effects of a severe fear experience. two and a half years ago, i called on this house not to bow to the fear campaign that is the very basis of the so-called covid-19 pandemic, to deal with the facts, because otherwise the world as we know it will disappear. today, a huge number of people, both in europe and in the world, are under a severe psychosis of fear, and in the autumn we are faced with war and pandemics.
member of the commission. – mr president, first i want to thank mr cañas again for this report. but i think the parliament is a great ally, a great supporter, and especially also the intergroup. and i want really to thank the intergroup for the work which is done there on promoting social economy. the potential of the social economy to create and retain quality jobs, contribute to social inclusion, drive economic development, drive the twin transition and revitalise our democracy should now be enhanced and should find its place in our policies, in our national policies, but also at the european level. i think what we need now are more social enterprises, stronger social entrepreneurship, creation of new entities precisely to promote also social innovation. yes, there are regions that are ahead in promoting and developing social economy. showing, by the way, how this can function in the interest of prosperity, in the interest of good jobs, in the interest also of solid social services. so if you ask me, yes, there are regions, the basque region, the basque country certainly is one of them. i am very grateful to the support of the european parliament in enhancing the recognition of this alternative way of doing business. this is essential for it to develop more evenly in all territories of the european union. and also to say a word on the accessibility of european finance, i think this is a real important issue. we have to make all financial resources, all european financial resources, more easily accessible to social economy entities, enterprises or whatever status. so therefore, we are creating a digital single gateway to make it easier precisely to find the right resources and to facilitate the administrative procedure. anyway, i must say your report mr cañas is a good contribution to the preparation of our recommendation, and certainly we will come back to that once we propose this recommendation.
the debate is closed. the vote on this report will take place tomorrow. the court is adjourned for a few minutes. it will be resumed at 3 p.m. with question time to the commission on the agenda. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. is there any objection? that's not the case. the minutes are approved.
the next item is the question time with questions to the commission pursuant to rule 137 of the rules of procedure. i welcome commissioner sinkevičius to this question time. the theme of this question time is: more ambitious eu biodiversity targets ahead of cop 15. the question time will last about 90 minutes. questions are not allocated to individual members in advance. the speaking time is: one minute for a question, two minutes for the answer, 30 seconds for a supplementary question and two minutes for the answer. i would point out that a possible supplementary question is admissible only if it is closely related to the main question and does not contain a new question. if you have a question, i would ask you to register your request now by using the spontaneous voice mail function of your voting machine after you have inserted your voting card. the relevant instructions are available in the chamber. i would remind you that, with the exception of the first two rows, which are reserved for the group chairmen, there is free choice of seats. during question time, you will be asked questions from your seat. i ask all speakers to respect their speaking time. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. so i ask you again to make your request now.
member of the commission. – thank you very much for your question and of course, thank you very much to all members of this parliament for putting this question, this important question, on the agenda as we are heading towards cop15. finally, the date and the place is clear. so of course, for us to have an ambitious outcome, we need to be united and also lead by example. so the first part of my answer to you is that we have strong legislation here in the eu with the biodiversity strategy, now also with the nature restoration legislation and other pieces of legislation, which allows us to lead the way. secondly, i think what’s extremely important is to seek an agreement which would be a landing zone for all regions around the globe, finding a perfect match between an ambition but also realistically what can be implemented and also, of course, funded. last but not least, i’m very thankful that you have mentioned the food security issue there, because exactly due to biodiversity loss, exactly due to ecosystem degradation, this is the biggest threat to our food security and i think this has to be addressed immediately. one of the steps forward is, of course, nature restoration legislation, which on one hand does not maybe directly produce the crops and yields, but on the other hand plays a vital role to ensure food security in the long term for our people. the same goes for other regions. so i think this food insecurity which is now very much at the centre of attention, caused by russian war crimes and even a bigger war crime is committed when the port of odessa is blocked, must be also one of the topics that should be mentioned in cop15 and especially the biodiversity’s and ecosystem’s importance for food production.
member of the commission. – at the moment, it does not have a mention, and of course, knowing the dynamic of the cop and the un, that might be challenging. but i think what’s extremely important is that we keep it in mind and we know what is the issue. as i said, you know, the issue as regards the odessa port blocking is, first of all, a war crime. secondly, it is a logistical issue. but then, when we see the situation also here in the eu, our farmers already lose every year more than eur 1 billion in crop yields just because of biodiversity loss. the same applies to other parts of the world. i think that’s inevitably going to be underpinning and therefore i think it’s going to be inevitably applied. and i think, you know, when we look at developing countries, we see that there is an urgent need to help them, but to help them not only with development funding, but also ensuring that they have the environment which can produce.
member of the commission. – thank you very much for your question and for the very clearly expressed ambition, but i think we have to be realistic on the ambitious targets that we set. there’s nothing wrong with being realistic, because, looking back, we have failed to implement the targets before. and every time we return, we return with new targets. and of course, i’m happy to do so. but i think there is a clock ticking and asking for urgent implementation. so i think the 30x30 target which is proposed, which is there, is enough. because if you look back at the aichi targets, they are still relevant and they are not implemented. secondly, what we have to have, in order to successfully implement it, is a monitoring framework review clause, which would allow us a successful implementation. last but not least, when we speak about the paris moment for biodiversity and the environment, what we want to do with the cop, and when you mentioned at the beginning that the rounds in geneva and nairobi didn’t bring the result that we expected, you’re absolutely right. i think there are many reasons for that. but one of the key reasons was, of course, that cop15 was constantly postponed and, of course, it didn’t get the political momentum that it should have. so hopefully now, when we have clarity, that will pick up pace. i think if you compare the nairobi round and the geneva round, there was already progress. yes, that progress is still in brackets. and we will have to do a lot of work to take it from brackets and make it an agreement, because we have to be also, you know, very clear here that there is no broad agreement between countries, and that will require a huge effort negotiating even 30x30 targets, and then, at the end of the day, it’s implementation. but i am optimistic. i think the eu has the credibility to talk and to lead. we managed not only to already have a significant increase on biodiversity funding, but also we have very ambitious domestic legislation, which has been proven to be working.
member of the commission. – absolutely. i think when we speak about any agreement, funding we know is going to be a complicated part, especially when we talk about biodiversity. remember the paris agreement? for paris to become a reality there was a copenhagen before, where actually the number on funding was finally met and then it sort of started a true dialogue towards an ambition. we don’t have that time for cop15. we all have to become a bit more, let’s say, pragmatic and realistic about what can be put on the table. because when i also hear calls for a eur 100 billion per year from the current eur 6 billion, we understand that it’s unrealistic – although, you know, creating additional funding, additional funds and so on, we are ready to explore those opportunities. we are ready to have a look how they’re going to work. we as the eu, and president von der leyen, have very clearly showed our leadership already in doubling our funding for biodiversity from eur 3.5 billion to eur 7 billion. i hope – and i’m working together with colleagues especially in the high ambition coalition – that others will follow. but i think here, in order to really have as much as possible funding available, we also need to look at other sources, at private funds, where we can get additional support to increase that number as much as possible. that will require lots of creativity. that will require additional solutions. as i said, we are ready to explore those options, but nevertheless we have to be realistic as to what it is possible to allocate. now i fully agree with you as regards the harmful subsidies. i think some progress has been reached and the question is becoming a centre of attention. here within the eu we also need to fully implement the ‘do no significant harm’ principle – and especially now when we are in the middle of a transition where member states are going to be using funds as regards the post—covid restoration, as regards the war in ukraine and so on. so it is extremely important that those funds would be used without doing harm to our environment, to our climate targets.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, the climate is changing. it doesn't take a genius to say that, but what i think we need to know is the fact that this climate impact is also impacting a variety of fundamental resources. the basic resources are air, yes, there is land, but for us who live in the mediterranean, it is absolutely water or sea. and because of that, i have a feeling that we're a little bit less focused on the sea and a little bit more on pollution in the air and in the land, and i want to get that right. for this reason, and since we see that the biodiversity in the sea is changing, especially in the adriatic sea, new species of fish are coming in and so on and so forth... i ask you, is the commission aware of this and what will the commission do to solve this problem? and it has to be urgent.
member of the commission. – first of all, there is no chance that we can succeed in the fight against climate change or halting biodiversity loss without the oceans playing a vital role, oceans, of course, including the sea basins that we all know best. and here, i think, speaking against the background of the ocean conference in lisbon, we can clearly say that this year we need to use, as much as is possible, to actually put the ocean nexus into the final documents of cop15. it must be also a clear visibility at cop in sharm el-sheikh, too, because without healthy oceans, without their mitigation functions, without absorption of co2, we won’t be able to fight climate change. and you are absolutely right. climate change is already putting huge pressure on our oceans and we see this with very quickly changing ecosystems, biodiversity, within our oceans. another thing which i think is going to be an important step on the way to montreal is negotiations on so-called bbnj – beyond national jurisdictions – on the protection of the high seas. that can give a great booster towards the meeting in montreal in finding an agreement on protection of the high seas and having clear rules there. so i hope that we will be able in august to have a final meeting in new york to close these negotiations. that would be a big step further as regards our oceans’ protection. the final thing is, of course, we also have to look and protect marine resources better in our seas. i think what’s very important is to step up the implementation of marine protected areas. so far we’ve seen significant steps done by some member states and we just had a huge announcement of the largest marine protected area, but still, it’s not enough. we need to do more. we need to be aiming at and reaching our 30% goal that we have in our biodiversity strategy. and of course, the member states will have to step up their efforts.
mr president, i am glad to hear all this, i am glad to see that there is a strategy, that there is good will. what i'd like to ask you to do is to have very specific operational plans. i'm sure you'll have the help, the partnership, the synergy of cities, municipalities, counties, states, various marine research centers. and then, based on the profession, based on all of them and on common thinking, we're going to work together to make very concrete projects: from these that you're talking about, sea lifting to the protection of various pollutants. i look forward to such projects and believe that they are necessary, necessary and urgent.
mr president, dear colleagues, as the main outcome of the last european council, we have applauded the decision to give ukraine and moldova eu candidate status. while this was an essential political message aiming at reaffirming our undiminished commitment for the future membership of the countries in the western partnership, this fast track is causing turbulences in the western balkans. for this reason, the council’s readiness to grant candidate status to bosnia is a very important step as we cannot risk further disenchantment and we cannot give the impression that we are leaving the western balkans behind. the implementation of the commitments, as set out in the political agreement reached on 12 june 2022, will be paramount and i strongly hope that after the commission reports on the 14 key priorities, as requested by the council, we’ll swiftly welcome bosnia herzegovina as an official candidate. dear colleagues, delaying further the inevitable eu perspective for the balkans in the eu is like playing with fire as there is a concrete risk that they will look elsewhere. as we perfectly know where this ‘elsewhere’ is, i am sure we don’t want that to happen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have tabled 61 amendments to this report, together with my colleagues, and i can say that some of them have been adopted, such as the strengthening of media pluralism in all languages in bosnia and herzegovina, the call for strengthening cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime and ensuring bosnia and herzegovina's european perspective. however, i want to repeat once again: bosnia and herzegovina must remain united, territorially whole, with the equal rights of the three constituent peoples. i also condemn any disregard for international and national norms and obligations, any destabilization of the country. that must be a powerful message. the politics of bosnia and herzegovina, on the other hand, must finalise constitutional and electoral reform and move forward on its european path, aware that it needs a fundamental transformation. the european council, which i welcome, has for the first time expressed its willingness, at the instigation of the croatian government and the croatian prime minister, to grant bosnia and herzegovina candidate status. and i applaud that. for us croats and the croatian government, it's especially important. colleagues, and for us europeans. bosnia and herzegovina is a european country, our neighbouring country, and it has half a million croats living there. the message is also to bosnia and herzegovina to undertake reforms of the constitution and the electoral law, so that this key prerequisite that we often mention can be completed for the elections in october in the best possible way. i'll finish: challenges, opportunities and solutions -- yes, but not just opportunities. we must offer bosnia and herzegovina a solution because it is also a security issue of first order for europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all agree that a lasting stabilisation of bosnia and herzegovina is in the european interest, not first, but especially against the background of the russian war of aggression in ukraine. we know that putin wants to extend his influence to the western balkans and to bosnia and herzegovina. it is therefore necessary that we in the european union, together with our international allies, assume our responsibilities and safeguard peace and stability. at the same time, efforts on the bosnian side to obtain eu candidate status must be stepped up. because they are essential to the democratization process in the country. we condemn those who want to divide the country. the blockade of the institutions and the attempts to divide republika srpska must be stopped immediately. the people are tired of the ethno-nationalism of the country's political elites. they want a life in peace and security and a future for themselves and their children. the more important the elections in october. the european union must do everything in its power to ensure that these are transparent and fair. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by means of a 'blue card' procedure.)
the intervention requested by the blue card draw. mr franz, i think we can agree that bosnia and herzegovina needs stability, functionality... we agree, mr franz, that bosnia and herzegovina needs peace, stability, functionality and a european perspective. i think it is important to emphasize to you once again that bosnia and herzegovina also needs respect for the rights of all three constituent peoples, not as something that is important in itself for the sake of some abstractness, but because without this respect, without an agreement on the future of the country, it is impossible to achieve such stability and a european perspective. what i want to ask you is what do you think... (the chairman interrupts the speaker)
reply to a verbal message under the 'blue card' procedure. we must overcome an ethnosystem in any case. bosnia and herzegovina is the only country in europe that has this system, and it has no future. i'm telling you from personal experience. six members of my family died in the holocaust because we belonged to an ethnic group called the sinti. and we know that an ethnic system cannot have a future, and it cannot guarantee human rights. that is why it is important for europe and for the people that we overcome this.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i wonder if you are aware of what you are doing? are you aware that you're trying to put out the fire with gasoline? you want to solve the problem of serbian nationalism and russian influence by imposing a so-called civil, but actually bosnian unitarianism, in which serbs feel threatened and which makes them strengthen their separatism. so you're amplifying the problem instead of solving it. this report is going in the wrong direction! so did the civil approach stop the war in bosnia and herzegovina? no, it's the dayton accords, which implies the constitutionality of all three nations. just like in belgium, where most of you work. can you imagine, for example, that the walloons elect the political representatives of the flemings in the same way that the bosniaks elect the political representatives of the croats? and you're praising high representative schmidt, who is the main culprit in the failure of the neumans' negotiations on the new election law. so remember, the only thing that can bring lasting peace to bosnia and herzegovina is a just relationship between peoples!
mr president, dear colleagues, the european integration of the balkans is a story of missed opportunities. we all know that the current war in ukraine is not the first war in our lifetime. chilling images of the yugoslav war in the 1990s burnt into our memories. back then it was the united states, in the end, that brokered peace. because europe failed to do so. and still the eu does not seem to have learnt from that lesson. instead of speeding up the process, brussels keeps on lecturing those countries – this report being a good example. the eu should stabilise and pacify the region, and a real prospect of eu membership can do that. however, the proposition of sanctions, for instance, against elected leaders, leads nowhere. it’s not the right thing to do. political threats create distrust and are counter—productive. moreover, bosnia herzegovina lies exactly on the balkan migration route. therefore, its integration into the eu with enforced border protection would contribute to stability for the local people as well as for europe as a whole. we cannot waste any more opportunities. the eu must give membership—candidate status to bosnia—herzegovina now.
my fellow members, my fellow citizens, bosnia and herzegovina is remarkably similar to one country in the european union, namely belgium. belgium is also made up of three national entities - the french, the dutch and the germans. each of them has equal rights, and that's exactly what the people of bosnia and herzegovina don't have. the croatian people are the most disturbed. who chooses his representative? he chooses another people. as my colleague ilcic has mentioned, it is as if the french were electing representatives of the dutch. turning bosnia and herzegovina into a so-called civil state without recognizing national entities - yes, but then let's show that example in belgium, let the walloons, flemings and germans give up their rights and i believe that bosnia and herzegovina will follow their example.
mr president, the stability and long-term survival of bosnia and herzegovina can only be achieved by reforming the electoral law to ensure that croats, as one of the three constituent peoples, can also elect their own political representatives. in this sense, this report unambiguously calls for the implementation of electoral reform and the implementation of the ljubić judgment, which i support. on the other hand, it unfortunately supports the holding of elections under the current unconstitutional electoral law, which rewards those who do not want to reach a fair deal, and these are primarily bosniak politicians led by the party of democratic action and bakir izetbegović. croats, citizens of the european union are being imposed illegitimate representatives at the level of the presidency of bih and the house of peoples of the parliament of the federation of bih, and all because of the hegemonic aspirations of the bosniaks. unfortunately, the biggest responsibility for this situation lies with the so-called international community, including the eu, which deprived the croats of the mechanisms to protect their own collective rights twenty years ago. it is the moral and political duty of the european union and the united states to solve the problem they created and to save the croats in bih from the political liquidation they are preparing in sarajevo.
mr president, some of my colleagues in this debate today are making a mockery of the constitution of the country we are talking about, the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina, calling the fundamental provisions of that document, which ended the bloody war in bosnia and herzegovina in 1995, a kind of tribal system, a kind of ethnic system that we should overcome and replace with a kind of fantasy world, a world in which these existing ethnicities will be lost, in which the rights of the three constituent peoples will not be respected. and that's wrong. this is completely wrong because it encourages such tendencies that are often in bosnia and herzegovina only hidden, the tendencies of the largest bosniak people in which it participates in the way of overvoting, overvoting and electoral engineering. it's not something that's a european concept. europe knows something quite different - subsidiarity that exists in the institutions of the european union, because it is a reality. this is the reality of the european union today, but it is also the reality of bosnia and herzegovina.
the fact is that the accession negotiations for serbia's accession to the eu are stagnating. there are many reasons for this situation. one of them is that serbia today is not a democratic country, but it is a political unity or the complete domination of one political option, vucic's progressives. the image of serbia today is the image of a country where human rights are violated, the development of civil society is stunted, and independent media practically do not exist. moreover, there is no visible desire or progress in the rule of law, the fight against corruption, or the implementation of reforms. throughout its history, serbia has often shown a desire for hegemony over neighboring countries. the ambitions and desires for serbian domination clearly still exist, and recent serbian hegemony is best seen in the example of the destabilization of neighboring montenegro, which pro-serbian politicians often deny the right to its own identity. and here, of course, he's working in collusion and collusion with russia. before joining the eu, serbia and its politicians must accept european values and resolve fundamental issues related to the rule of law, the state of democracy, the prosecution of war crimes, the cessation of aggressive interference in the politics of neighbouring states and the clarification of the fate of missing persons from the aggression against croatia.
madam president, while the ukrainian people are fighting for their own survival, for freedom, but also for our european values, in serbia in belgrade we are witnessing a sad, shameless calculation that is still going on and we are witnessing all the different ways of circumventing sanctions. in this way, serbia is not only formally distancing itself from the european union, but also civilisationally from the whole of europe. secondly, what we are witnessing in our immediate neighbourhood, unfortunately, are elements of the old, outdated policy of serbia from the 1990s where there is a lack of sincere, real cooperation, above all on reconciliation, and on all those remaining open issues from the 1990s. we are witnessing an unacceptable expansion of jurisdiction, the unresolved fate of the missing, the problematic attitude towards minorities within the republic of serbia, but also the open encroachment on the cultural heritage of other countries. this is completely unacceptable and as long as it is serbia will not be ready for the european union!
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, russia’s invasion of ukraine makes the security, development and sustainability of central and eastern europe even more strategic. i would like to highlight that the initiative brings high importance, taking the economic potential of the region. but also i am very glad to see that the three seas initiative is developing. the investment fund is now fully operational and represents the expression of the highest political level will. it is designed to promote connectivity among the countries with the ultimate goal of strengthening their security and economic vitality. the potential is huge, and we could extend the scope of the initiative by inviting non—eu countries that aspire to join. therefore, i would like to strengthen the potential, and express my gratitude that ukraine was invited as one of those countries non—affiliated with the eu, and i’m looking forward to continue the project as such with the involvement of ukraine, because with that we can only strengthen our potential together.
madam president, dear colleagues, the three seas initiative has been established at the joint initiative of croatia by our former president, madam grabar—kitarović, and poland during the inaugural summit in dubrovnik in 2016. it’s encouraging to see the continued common commitment of the 12 member states and their partner countries to boost cooperation in matters of energy, digitalisation and transport. by joining forces in the investment of infrastructure we strengthen regional interconnectivity and mutual support while reducing the dependency on energy suppliers such as russia. by strengthening the north—south axis and stimulating these countries’ cohesive economic development we also contribute to the strategic sovereignty of the european union. as an initiator of the format, croatia has delivered on its promises by the construction of the lng terminal on the island of krk. at the latest three seas initiative forum, prime minister plenković even announced croatia’s commitment to increase its terminal’s capacity to more than double the current maximum. we can only tackle the question of energy security and resilience through close cross—border cooperation, and the three seas initiative offers concrete solutions.
madam chairman! the three seas initiative is an important forum for the 12 european union countries that lie between the three european seas. it was developed in the hope of increasing the connectivity of the region and in the light of promoting joint investments in the areas of infrastructure, transport, energy and digitalisation. one of the objectives of the initiative is also to reduce the energy dependence of the countries of central and eastern europe on russia in the field of energy policy and in general. it was the russian aggression in ukraine that made it even more important. a significant move of the initiative was made in 2019, in brdo, slovenia, under the leadership of president borut pahor, with the establishment of an investment fund. it has also launched several major cross-border infrastructure projects. the three seas initiative must remain an important forum for dialogue and cooperation, but it will not be a complete entity until both ukraine and the western balkan countries are included in it, and of course only together can we realise the real potential and opportunities that are at our fingertips.
the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. so in response to new geostrategic opportunities and circumstances, i argue that we need to connect more than ever. yes, energy connectivity is important, but so is transportation, because transportation is the lifeblood of a country's economy and the movement of its citizens. the commission is currently reviewing the european transport corridors, the so-called ten-t network, which must be europe's response to the new circumstances. therefore, commissioner, i call on the commission and all 12 member states to take this commendable initiative to link the port of rijeka to the baltic-adriatic corridor. in particular, because of the important role that rijeka and croatia play in relation to the western balkans, i invite you to give rijeka the role and status of a gateway to this corridor in the upcoming revision of the corridor, and thus make europe even more successful and even more connected.
rapporteur. – madam president, vice—president, president hoyer, representatives of the eib, colleagues, the report that we are discussing today clearly outlines that the european investment bank (eib) is of great importance for the european parliament, as it is the lending arm of the european union. the eib is the biggest creditor in the world, and it plays a special importance in our passing the tumultuous times in which we live, and here i am referring to the covid—19 pandemic and the war in ukraine. the very foundation of europe is based on solidarity between people. and today, more than ever, this solidarity must be shown by helping ukrainian citizens who are suffering from the war. and i would like to mention that alongside the eu’s support, the eib provided additional aid of 4 billion to improve housing, health, education and access to jobs for ukrainian refugees. of course, we all hope that the war will end soon and that peace will be established on our continent. today we are discussing the report on 2020, which was a very difficult year for all of us. i would like to show my appreciation that the eib group remained operational to carry out its activities despite the outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic. i welcome the efforts made by the eib to overcome the global health crisis, to respond to the economic effects of covid-19, because the health of our citizens is our priority. the eib had made available funds for investments in the healthcare sector, which amounted 5.2 billion, of which 175 million were distributed in the research, and also supported countries outside the european union, which i think is very important. i would like also to underpin the support provided to the small and medium—sized enterprises, and also together with the european investment fund, you have launched the skills & education guarantee pilot to stimulate investments in education, training and skills. i think education is very important, and this initiative is well suited to address the upcoming needs for the labour market, giving special attention to the digital and green transition. i note that in 2020, 34% of all eib signatures within the member states were for projects and beneficiaries located in the eib cohesion priority regions, identified as less-developed regions and transitioning regions. of course, as former commissioner for european regional policy, i am grateful to the eib for its support to cohesion. we are also aware that the economic consequences of the covid—19 pandemic have deepened the differences between the member states. we should assure that the most affected regions and countries can adjust to the new circumstances so that no one is left behind. the coming years will be decisive in preventing severe impacts of climate change. and, of course, here i have to mention that in 2020 alone, the bank invested a eur 24 billion in climate action, confirming its position as being the largest multilateral financer of climate action. as there is always room for improvement, i emphasise the need for even more integrity, transparency and accountability and reinforced mechanisms to fight fraud and corruption. i am convinced that the eib will continue to carry out the project assessment in respect of technical, financial and economic-based indicators, making the projects’ qualities a decisive factor in deciding whether or not to grant financing. i note that, concerning gender equality, the border is still 29.5% of management positions now taken by women. but this, i think, it’s the responsibility of the member states because they are the ones who nominate the vice—president in the board of eib. at the end, i would like to congratulate president hoyer for creating eib development branch, and i believe that this can increase the positive impact that the eib has outside of the european union. this will help even more the countries with small and medium revenue to create sustainable growth, promote human rights, reduce poverty and inequality and improve human life. i believe the branch will be in charge of many very important investments that will have a major positive impact on the life of the people.
eib. – madam president, distinguished members of the european parliament, dear commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it’s a great pleasure for me to be with you here today. the last time i had the privilege to address this house was almost one year ago. at the time, we were all very much focused on dealing with the fallout of the covid-19 pandemic, while simultaneously addressing the digital and green transformation. these issues have not disappeared, but none of us imagined that russia was planning a brutal war with global consequences and devastating effects for the ukrainian people who have suffered until today and beyond. and we would not have imagined, probably most of us, that hunger would be used as a weapon, that the product of development work of decades would be destroyed and famine would return to big parts of the world. we as europeans had to react swiftly and in full solidarity with our ukrainian partners and friends, and we did. we did react with determination and speed, which shows that we can be strong as europe when we stand shoulder to shoulder. let me thank the rapporteurs of the two reports, ms corina crețu and mr david cormand, for their excellent work and cooperation. your reports are extremely relevant and cover the current key challenges the eib and the eu have to face. i very much appreciate that you acknowledge that the eu’s bank is doing its part, and effectively so. indeed, reacting when needed is part of our raison d’être. when europe turned its focus to attempt to address the climate crisis, we led the way among international financial institutions. in 2021, the share of eib investments that went into climate action and environmental sustainability projects rose to a record eur 27.6 billion or 51% of eib business. when covid-19 struck, we responded quickly by rolling out a pan—european guarantee fund across the union. during the years 2020 and 2021, the eib group supported around 850 000 smes. in addition, we helped finance covid vaccines, diagnostics and treatments. after the russian war on ukraine, the eu bank was the first international financial institution to provide financial assistance, disbursing eur 660 billion within days after the russian invasion. by the way, talking about russia, we ended all activities in russia – and there was a big partnership for modernisation – in 2015 after the annexation of crimea. so there was no need to call on us to return from russia. we stand ready to do more, both in the short-term and in the post-war reconstruction, as we have already announced in lugano this week with the setting up of the eu-ukraine gateway trust fund to mobilise funds for ukraine. we have the experience, the expertise, the financial infrastructure in place to do more under the steering of the council, the commission and parliament, member states and contributing countries. we should not forget that this is not a regional conflict. this is a crisis of global dimensions. i thank the rapporteurs very much for acknowledging the impact of the eu bank. i see it as a testament to the strength of the eu bank, of your bank, as an instrument of european economic policy. it’s also a testament of playing our part to what some call strategic autonomy or economic resilience. today, this work is again much needed, and the message i would like to convey to you is that we can turn challenges into opportunities if we take the right choices. the war in ukraine is the strongest possible argument to show we are on the right course in greening our economies and accelerating our independence from fossil fuels. it is easy to hide behind the virus and behind the war when it comes to the climate objectives and gdps. we will not backtrack on our climate action financing. on the contrary, my ambition is to further step up our work in the light of the current challenges. in particular, investment in green innovation and technologies will be key. without new solutions, we will not be able to save our planet, nor will we achieve energy independence. of course, we also need to look into investments to address short-term needs, but the guiding principles must be the same. we cannot, we must not, invest our money in a way that locks us into an unsustainable path. this is not an idealistic position, nor an ideological one, but for a banker a very rational one. it simply would not be responsible banking, not to mention best banking practice, if you were to invest into assets today that we know we’ll have to write off in five years’ time. this is where the eib as a bank also needs to take a different stance from governance. in line with repowereu, we are currently developing an ambitious response to help reduce dependence on fossil fuels and fast—forward the green transition. i am convinced that we can do both. now, at this point in time, dear colleagues, this is no longer a matter of choice, but clearly an imperative. the war in ukraine is also a reminder of the importance of having a dedicated arm for our activities outside the eu – eib global. this decision was spot on. europe’s economic interests do not stop at its borders. europe’s foreign policy cannot be separated from its economic interests. energy, food security, life sciences, pharmaceutics and key information technologies are areas where europe must be more autonomous. finally, let us not forget the backbone of our economies, the small and medium-sized enterprises representing more than 98% of all enterprises, employing almost 70% of all employees, and also often being the main source of innovation. it is in our key interest to further support these companies. we will, of course, keep parliament informed closely about these developments and our activities in these areas. i know that issues of accountability, integrity, or standards more generally are of high importance to you, and rightly so. as you mentioned in the reports, we are continuously improving our policies and practices in various fields through a revised transparency policy. the new tripartite agreement with the european court of auditors and the european commission provides a code of conduct for members of the management committee and the new environmental and social sustainability framework and, of course, as a matter of top priority, policies related to the well-being of our staff, gender and diversity. we have come a long way in many areas, but i fully agree with you that we cannot become complacent in this respect, and we take the recommendations in your resolutions very seriously. i am committed to raising the bar even higher. ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention and i am looking forward to the debate.
vice-president of the commission. – technology works, i will try to do the same. thank you very much. madam president, honourable members, dear rapporteurs, dear president hoyer, i would like to welcome the two reports and thank the european parliament and in particular the rapporteurs for their hard and very relevant work. the eib group is a crucial partner for implementing eu policies inside and outside the borders of the union and i welcome the opportunity to discuss in the parliament how the bank can help the eu to further achieve our political priorities. i would like to start by saying a few words on our joint efforts to support ukraine. the appalling russian invasion against ukraine poses a fundamental challenge to europe and our shared values, requiring us to respond decisively with coordinated eu actions. i appreciate that the eib moved very fast to mobilise urgent financial support for ukraine, which required very close cooperation with the commission to grant necessary eu guarantees. together with the microfinancial assistance provided by the commission earlier this year and the commitment to present a proposal for additional exceptional macrofinancial assistance of up to eur 9 billion in 2022, this should help to alleviate ukraine’s short-term financial needs. in the longer run, i am confident that the bank will play a role in the context of the rebuild ukraine facility proposed by the commission to finance the reconstruction effort of ukraine and the alignment of ukraine’s economy to the eu. we will have to cooperate very closely in this area. now let me turn to the eib and investeu in other areas. beyond ukraine, the eib will also be a key partner in providing and leveraging investments aligned with eu policy priorities in many other areas, including the green and digital transitions. it is noteworthy that the commission is now implementing all parts of the investeu programme, of which the eib will execute 75% of the guarantee capacity. priority has been given to the signature of the guarantee agreement with the eib group, which was signed on 7 march this year. negotiations on guarantee agreements with several other implementing partners are already advancing and the commission expects to be able to sign new agreements in autumn. i am happy to see that the eib and the eif are moving forward and have already started to support investments under the investeu fund. investeu, along with the recovery and resilience facility, will help to shift eu growth to new green and digital sectors, strengthen our leadership in research, development and innovation, and boost the vibrant start-up ecosystem in the eu. the commission is working very hard to make this possible and will strive to further enhance the cooperation with the eib in these important areas. on external action, i count on the eib to closely cooperate with the commission to align its operations with the eu’s external policy objectives and to build strong partnerships with other international financial institutions and national promotional banks. on 10 may, the european commission and the eib signed under the efsd a guarantee agreement through which the eu will provide a guarantee covering eur 26.7 billion in financing to support investments in several sectors such as green energy, green infrastructure and health. i highlight the new cooperation principle with the eib enshrined in the eu guarantees under ndici global europe and welcome the clear commitment to focus and align eib global activities with eu policy priorities. the new approach is ‘policy first’, so that the eu can be even stronger and impactful as team europe. together, we should strive to enhance our existing cooperation channels and to build on each other, promote a value-driven model to reach the transformative development with concrete flagship and team europe initiatives. a final word on climate change. the russian invasion of ukraine has raised awareness about the importance of accelerating our independence from russian fossil fuels and fast-forwarding the green transition. increased investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency will be key for achieving this objective. the eib has been a frontrunner among comparable financial institutions in making climate action the key priority of its activity and i trust this will continue despite the current difficult global context. we look forward to continuing our close cooperation with the eib to support eu policy goals. thank you for your attention and i look forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, mr president, the european investment bank has a very important role to play in the european union's economy, especially now, in the context of the triple crisis - i could say - because we started with the pandemic, following the pandemic, we had an economic crisis, obviously, and now the crisis of war. i have read the report carefully and appreciate the eib's work as a whole. but as a man who comes from production says, banks, not just the eib, all banks have to adapt their working tools to the concrete situation. and here, i have some numbers here. in 2020, 66.1 billion, the report says, were concentrated in three countries: italy, france and spain. what does that mean ? what does that mean ? it means that eastern countries, like my country, romania, have the administrative capacity and the financial capacity to borrow, but they don't have these borrowing capacities. and what does that mean ? it means that regional disparities are increasing, it means that we don't have that cohesion that we want, actually, all the european institutions. i believe that the eib should give priority to lending for social projects, for smes. yes, mr president, you said that 850 thousand smes were credited in 2021, but not even a 20th part, if we think about how many smes we have in the european union, did not receive these credits and i also believe that the tools that you have to use now should specifically support social projects, projects of smes, micro-enterprises. here are countries, like my country, where the benchmark interest rate on the bank has reached 4.6 percent. it means that the entrepreneur, the sme, cannot afford a cost of borrowing at that level. and that is what i think we have to do, the commission together with the eib and the member states, obviously, to find solutions to be able to help now, in this impasse, in these overlapping crises, the economic environment, because, after all, without the functioning of the economic environment, we have no budget either at national level or at european level.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, president hoyer – good to see you again – first of all, i really would like to thank the eib for its immediate readiness to provide support to ukraine in this very difficult time. i think the immediate response of the eib to ukraine was really very important and very good. so thanks for that. for the rest, we are, of course, always very thankful for the transformation that you have put into the eib from an investment bank into europe’s climate bank. i think the current energy crisis also very clearly shows the errors of the past that we are suffering from at this moment, because our failure to get rid of fossil dependency is something that we are paying for now on a daily basis still. energy independence is the answer to a strong geopolitical union. meanwhile, climate change is still having very much effect on our daily life. i think these two together – energy independence and climate change – should be addressed together, and i think the eib is on its way to that. still, though, you know very well that quite some member states are pushing also the eib to replace russian gas with new long—term fossil investments, and that the eib should help with that. you said: ‘we will not backtrack’. but i just would like to hear very clearly from you that when you are having your mid—term evaluation of the bank’s energy lending policies, and the climate roadmap, that you will not put into question the end of fossil subsidies for gas, and stand up to those member states pushing for new openings for eib support for fossil fuel investments. thank you very much, and we keep on fighting and supporting you in the fight against climate change as the climate bank.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. mr president! ladies and gentlemen! i congratulate the bank with its branch in luxembourg, especially for what you did during the pandemic, when half of the payments to smes were paid out right away in the first year, which helped to keep the liquidity of smes. and for what you've done for the health sector: over 5 billion euros -- 5.2 billion to be exact, including 175 million for vaccines -- that's concrete, and i thank you for that. i also wanted to thank you for what you've done for our country, my country, for poland: the record 6.4 billion euros paid out last year, this year as well, to the public sector, to local governments, to the private sector. but i have a feeling there's one thing we won't agree on. there are important priorities, and that's war and covid, but they override, mr. president, environmental issues. there will be a disagreement protocol on this, but for other matters, thank you very much.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, mrs jourová, mr hoyer, we welcome you back to the house. i would like to say that we welcome the decision of the european investment bank to become the climate bank of the european union. this approach must be strengthened, completed and not distorted by the new data on the uncertainty created by the energy crisis. on the contrary, the european investment bank needs to do more to support the acceleration of investment in the european union's energy security, the reduction of energy poverty and the promotion of the principle of energy efficiency. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr president, please! when you visited the committee on budgets in january this year, we had no idea of the difficulties and challenges we would face. in the meantime, the partnership and the strengthening of the alliance have been further enhanced and the role of the investment bank has been steadily increasing. this is also true for the new candidate countries, ukraine and moldova, and the western balkan countries, where major infrastructure investments are already underway, also helping to advance europe's strategic interests. but developing the eu's external border crossing agents and building capacity is essential for effective european contacts. this is urgently needed, as passengers often wait for hours and truck drivers for days at border crossings in very difficult conditions. i would ask the president to pay particular attention to the issue of cross-border migrants in the investment priorities of the bank and to open a separate credit line for this purpose.
madam president, the european investment bank has a pretty good track record for the last years and commitment, willingness and capability, including in environmental matters and considerations on its worth. for that, i would like you to continue, to raise the bar, with the ambition – you have parliament’s support on that – to stay tight that none of the bank’s funds should go to ‘significant harm’ nor fossil fuel investments. avoid incineration and start taking into account circular economy principles, low toxicity as well as the huge demands that we have on the biodiversity side. because you have the capabilities, you have the money, you have parliament’s support, and you have the duty to do it.
madam president, as has already been said here, the last few years have been difficult, and the european investment bank has done its duty to help combat the effects of the pandemic and now of war. the bank has invested in finding vaccines and treatments for covid, but also in keeping the economy on, shall we say, a leash. and thank you for that, mr. hoyer. however, there are a few areas where there is clearly room for improvement. we need more investment from the bank in agriculture and rural development to ensure food security and the transition to green agriculture. we also need the bank to ensure a high level of transparency and ethics by adopting a transparency register and proactive measures to prevent conflicts of interest.
madam president, there are many positive elements here, but one in particular is the focus on human rights due diligence in the new eib environmental and social sustainability framework, calling for the development of a specific human rights strategy; a commitment that a gender perspective be at the centre of eib activities; a strong focus on anti-money laundering and combating financing terrorism, including the fight against organised crime; a request for the extension of the right of access to info by the eca in relation to operations implementing eu policies; and deploring that the new tripartite agreement between the commission, the eib and eca do not represent an improvement to the situation with no enhanced role of the eca in terms of auditing powers regarding activities of the eib. sadly, there was a lot of watering down from what was there originally. in particular, excuses are given for the lack of provisions in the code of conduct of the management committee and board of directors excluding vice-presidents from overseeing operations in the countries of origins. i hope this doesn’t make it into the final report. overall, it’s good.
dear chair, dear colleagues, dear citizens, the european investment bank is distributing tens of billions of euros raised by the citizens of the european union. they claim to support green policies. many eu citizens, like myself, are interested in what exactly the european green policy is. ten years ago, you made us all pull out those conventional light bulbs, ban the 60w bulbs and introduce the energy-efficient ones, supposedly, 10-15w. so ten years later, we're no longer saving electricity, we're now encouraging the purchase of electric cars and financing their production, which use 100 kilowatts of electricity a day. so, what is green politics? a 10w light bulb or a 100kw electric car?
the debate on the annual report of the european investment bank, ladies and gentlemen, is an opportunity to reflect on the role of the eib in achieving the objectives of the european union in the new geopolitical context. in this context, i particularly welcome the fact that the eib's investment in energy in europe has increased from eur 10 billion to eur 14 billion between 2018 and 2021. this trend of increasing energy investment must continue as achieving the energy security of the european union is of key importance. we are particularly aware of this in circumstances where high energy prices threaten the living standards of citizens. energy diversification projects, such as the construction or increase of lng terminal capacity, are part of the response to the energy crisis and as such need to be accompanied by adequate financing from the european investment bank. the security of europe and the preservation of our way of life are directly linked to the achievement of eu energy independence and all the sources of funding we have at our disposal, including european investment bank loans, must be subordinated to this.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. to put it bluntly, the report in question has little to do with the pif directive. it is rather a list of the european parliament's expectations of olaf, the european commission and the member states, without any quantitative or qualitative data. it's a kind of -- excuse me -- a kind of wish list, a kind of restaurant where you come in and you pick out what you like from the menu. there is no reference to article 25 in principle. i think it's more of a shooter's act, more of a wishful thinking than a reference to a specific project.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i think the draft report was a good basis with a good focus on the fight against corruption and the need for an enhanced approach at eu level to cope with the new challenges which emerged in 2020 with covid-19 – the covid-19 outbreak – and the new way of managing eu funds. nevertheless, the report seems to me to lack some kind of substance in terms of recommendations and criticisms but, on the positive side, there are positive elements. the report includes a clear request for transparency in the expenditure side, as well as the concerns on conflicts of interest. the report has a strong focus on corruption and the fight against organised crime, including the mafia type. it highlights the importance of the anti-fraud strategy in the member states, as well as the need for an eu strategy on revolving doors. on anti-corruption reporting, the text regrets that the commission decided to disrupt its report but takes note of the role of the new rule of law report while asking for recommendations to be set by the commission within this specific framework. i will be supporting this report but i make one recommendation here. can we get a clock in front of us so we can see how long we are speaking instead of one behind us?
mr president, thank you, financial fraud involving eu funds is a daily occurrence in croatia. one of the most outrageous examples of looting and wasteful spending is the advanced mobility competence center. it's a research and development project that benefits the div group and seven other partners, including several universities. the amount of the loan is eur 20 million for the period 2020-2023, and the source of co-financing is the european regional development fund. some of the research projects have a dose of surrealism and would be a challenge to elon musk's companies, not to the humble screw manufacturer. the idea of the div group was never to develop new technologies, but to look at the cekom as an atm. they're filing fictitious hours, hiring incompetent employees who are given fake logs and writing fictitious progress on projects. the div group did not pay the funds to the partners and remained indebted to the universities. all this is happening with the blessing of the responsible ministers who have prepared and planned it all. the government, the div group and everyone else will soon be asking where the money is and what is the result, and from where, the years of research activities? finally, ironically, it is olaf and the european public prosecutor's office that could be investigated most in cekom.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, first of all, i have to thank the rapporteur, tiemo wölken, for his excellent job, as always. in this house and together with the commission and the council, we adopt a large amount of legislation every year. just in the past two months, we can recall some important examples like the dsa, dma, ets and cbam last month, so it is very relevant that we reflect on the way we approach law-making, in order to make sure that our legislation is of the highest quality and it delivers on the promises made to our voters. for me, this means increasing citizens’ participation in all the steps of eu law—making and decision—taking – because if we want to legislate for our citizens, their opinions should be heard. it also means increasing the transparency of the legislative process so that every citizen can follow the development of an initiative from inception until adoption. in particular, the council should be a lot more open with their decision—making. we know that often the only information available from the council is the final decision, without the possibility for the citizens to see how their own government influenced the decision. last but not least, we need also to increase our efforts in enforcing eu law – because all the work we do in preparing the legislation would be in vain if we do not ensure it’s actually implemented and followed. all of these points have been included in the report and now we have to implement them.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, once again, our parliament has drafted an excellent report on better regulation in order to join hands and forces to make better laws. but unfortunately, very often, better regulation is merely a catchphrase to justify different political goals, one in, one out, impact assessment, and so forth. so instead of long, casuistic ad hoc measures and better regulation guidelines, what the eu needs is a proper administrative procedure – an administrative code for eu officials that would give citizens a right to demand that the eu follows principles of better regulation and law-making in all of its actions. the european parliament presented a fully fledged proposal for eu administrative law back in 2016, but so far the commission has not given it any serious consideration. there is also a lot of room for improvement in the administration here in the european parliament too. why wouldn’t we then start with ourselves and make our own work more transparent, accountable, and our own procedures clearer and more predictable?
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european legislative process needs to be improved, as it lacks transparency and clarity for citizens. the wölken report has the merit of pointing out several ways of improvement, which is why i support it. among the good recommendations in this report i would mention respect for multilingualism against the omnipotence of english, the preparation of real impact analyses for legislative proposals, and the systematic taking into account of the specific nature of smes to reduce their administrative burdens. i particularly support the suggestion to strengthen the weight of national parliaments in the european legislative process, because the european union cannot survive unless it clearly shows its respect for the sovereignty of the nations that make up it. the illusion of a federal state with european sovereignty in the name of a so-called european people must be dispelled. the european union is and can only be an international organisation. it is in this perspective that i support it. if it tries to transform itself into a federal state, as the conference on the future of europe initiated by president macron is calling for, then a red line will be crossed in the eyes of the nationalist that i am and i will become its determined opponent.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the rapporteur deserves to be congratulated on the report he has produced and the efforts he has made. i would like to draw attention to a fundamental error in the policy of the european parliament and the union. and that is not the rapporteur's effort, i say again, it deserves congratulations. the desire for more regulation is deeply flawed, ladies and gentlemen. to want more regulation, better regulation, is contrary to the idea of free initiative, free enterprise and the idea that citizens have their own will, their own desire to do what they think is right and what they should do, rather than being constantly regulated by the european institutions. the desire for more regulation is soviet-style socialism. and so that's how that system was built, everything is regulated, everything is done by mold, everything has to be arranged in their boxes. and this is frustrating the citizens and alienating them from the european idea, from the european union as a whole. and i'll give you an example of such regulation. everyone in this room is very green, you want everyone to eat green, to breathe green, to wear green pants or not to wear green pants if it's greener, but at the same time you voted for hundreds of thousands of empty trucks to be running around empty in europe, burning a lot of fuel and polluting the air. now tell me, is this good regulation or is this bad regulation? is it ecological to walk around empty trucks or is it not ecological? and if it's not environmentally friendly, why are you voting for it when you want good regulation? i'm leaving aside the ideological settings and any document that talks about administration, and there's gender equality and other such topics that have nothing to do with it. in conclusion, not more, but less regulation, more sovereignty, more independence, free will and sovereign states.
mr. chairman, better laws, what's the point of laws and standards if they're not enforced? let's go, for example, to environmental protection in croatia, to waste management. there are standards for how to do quality projects in europe, for example, the red book or the yellow book and so on. why are bad projects approved in peripheral countries like croatia? the european institutions approve such projects. why are they building sewage treatment plants with a capacity that's more than the population? why do they build waste management centers that break down every five minutes? you don't do all that in your countries. is it because western european companies have to sell their equipment? is it because the european institutions are not interested? it's not because you don't know, because i've made sure that everyone relevant here knows, from the commissioner on up. the croatian government says jaspers and the commission approved that project, and the commission says that the government is responsible. why does it go hand in hand with the waste lobbies in croatia? european money has become a means of environmental devastation, more expensive services and public outrage. the people around marishte, kashijun and piskotnica know what i'm talking about, and it doesn't have to be like this. enough with the double standards.
on behalf of the the left group. – mr president, i want to welcome this debate, the development of an eu cycling strategy. i agree with the proposer of the debate that cycling should be acknowledged as a transport mode that is as valid as any other, and that its benefits in health and reduced road congestion should be recognised – not to mention the fact that a cycle strategy will be crucial to our efforts in tackling climate change and reducing our co2 emissions. therefore, it is my genuine hope that this debate is the beginning of a real engagement with stakeholders from across our member states, so that we can find a way to fully invest and implement safe and active mobility for all our citizens. our roads and transport links are for everyone, cyclists included – whether you’re a student cycling to college, a nurse taking a bus to work, an electrician driving your van to a job. when we debate cycle strategies, we are often bogged down in an ‘either-or’ argument. for too long, some politicians in ireland have peddled the myth that you can only have cycling infrastructure or real infrastructure, but never both. for instance, take the western rail corridor in the west of ireland. the rail line has lay idle for years, while politicians have debated whether to reopen the rail line to passenger and freight or to turn the rail line into a green- and cycleway. i’ve warned you: this ‘one or the other’ narrative really stifles us from harnessing our full potential, and it undermines our efforts to undo decades of neglect from successive governments, which has resulted in regional imbalance, which negatively affects west and north west ireland. when we are talking about transport policy and the future of sustainable transport – whether it be active mobility on a bike or public transport on a train – let’s be ambitious. we have the capacity and the skill set to develop and invest in both. what we lack is the political will. there are many examples across europe of greenways running alongside railway lines. i firmly believe there is no reason that this could not happen in the case of the western rail corridor. so let’s work to promote sustainable mobility. let’s work to promote active mobility. let’s work towards a transport strategy that serves all our citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, cycling is obviously not just a pastime and a pastime. the implications are many, from health to replacing more expensive and polluting means of transport. it is clear to me that a strategy at european level does not prevent member states from having subsidiarity and thinking about their mode of transport. but we are thinking here of a european strategy, because yes, here is a colleague, in the last mandate, mr kramer, had a very nice project, 5,000 km, a bicycle path strategy from the northern countries to the south, to the east. so this strategy, i think, is about both obvious and funding, because you can't build now, every country build its highways, its roads, without having these well-thought-out, connected bike lanes. connectivity, that's what we're talking about in the european union, and -- why not -- it's been said here, i want to repeat, it will also have an impact on the production of bicycles in europe and it will be jobs for more europeans.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be here today to talk and discuss the european union's cycling strategy, because cycling is becoming more and more popular on our continent, and that is absolutely very, very good, because we know all the benefits of cycling, of using a bicycle. but i want to highlight a big problem here that we need to solve if we want to develop and promote cycling. it's, of course, the cycling infrastructure. and i'm thinking primarily about bike lanes, because we know that both old and young people ride bikes. and that's, of course, good. however, unfortunately, there are too many accidents in which cyclists are killed. i would therefore urge you, commissioner simpson, to make the construction of cycling routes an important part of the strategy, particularly in tourist areas such as my own istria and croatia. that way we'll increase safety and therefore the number of people who ride.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, this item is entitled 'eu response to rising energy prices in europe'. and if you asked the citizens in your countries what the answer is, i guarantee you that most of them would have a long silence, just silence. the european union, in this case, as with the pharmaceutical companies during covid-19, is watching the crisis grow rich in "energy" while people are falling apart. it is true that some nation states are not able to help either, unfortunately including the czech republic, which holds the presidency of the council. yesterday, they were happy to announce that they had raised the price to basically triple what people were paying at the beginning of the year! in the case of the czech republic's huge inflation, it's just a deadly cocktail. we've had enough of politics that feeds the top 1% and impoverishes the 99% of the population. enough talk, it's been eight months since we knew about this problem, and we're just not dealing with it - neither the commission nor the member states. the only people who actually pay for it are eu citizens. fellow citizens, let's get this straight!
mr. president, the eu's response to the energy crisis shows that the authorities do not understand what lies ahead. the only way to solve the crisis is to find enough cheap energy on which the current economy is built. you can't be a developed country and not use energy. limiting prices won't help because no one will make or sell a product without losing money. already it is leading to the removal of these products from store shelves. the advice to cut down on heating and cold showers is ridiculous, and people will spend less because they can't pay, not because the government tells them to. the enormous price of gas is also destroying the fertilizer industry, heralding a major crisis in food production. building alternative and renewable infrastructure will take decades, so croatia is now working on a new gas storage facility, which will not be ready until 2027. in the long term, all countries should strive for energy independence. however, for the winter that is coming and the next, if we want to avoid the collapse of the european economy, a future without industrial products, without enough food and heating, we must abandon the counterproductive energy sanctions and restore trade with the russian federation.
your honor, the current rise in energy prices and supply disruptions are the most important issues plaguing our citizens, and rightfully so. in this situation, public authorities must intervene to prevent market disruption and protect the livelihoods of european citizens, especially those who are socially most vulnerable. we need to be honest about the mistakes we've made. the energy crisis has shown us that some european countries made a big mistake when they took the hasty populist move of closing nuclear power plants, and thus only increased their dependence on russia. nuclear energy is not only important for the transition to renewable energy, but also represents a clean and cheap long-term solution for europe. wind and solar power will never be able to solve the european union's energy problems on their own. we also need to continue to reduce the union's energy dependence by diversifying energy sources and supplies and building interconnections. a positive example is croatia, which built an lng terminal on krk despite the resistance of the left-wing opposition. the commission notes that the project is not part of the public policy remit, but is part of the public policy remit.
madam president, once again you condemn hungary. because she does not submit to your moral imperatives, the so-called values you constantly talk about. diversity, openness, inclusivity, lgbt propaganda, the deconstruction of our history, and so on and so forth. all these harmful concepts, viktor orbán's hungary rejects them and it is right. she's proud of her history and her identity. it protects its children from the delusions of wokism and gender ideology in schools, it defends its borders, its people and thus our european civilization. yes, the hungarians want to remain themselves and that is what you are blaming them for. you want to force them to change, to adhere to your formless, liquid, individualistic project, without past or future, you will not succeed. the hungarian people have faced throughout their history much greater threats than the one you are placing on them today. the hungarians will outlive you, european civilization will outlive you. all over europe, from stockholm to rome, people are waking up. viktor orbán's hungary is showing them the way.
the next speaker on the list of speakers is mrs maite pagazaurtundúa. there is a blue card from ernő schaller-baross, but i will not give you the floor, and that is because the blue card system is designed in our procedure as a response to a speech. however, you pressed the button and signed in before the vice-president had started her speech, and so in this case you will not get the blue card, but we will continue with the next speaker, mrs maite pagazaurtundúa.
madam president, identity-based, populist regimes, whether left or right, seek to accumulate power around the executive and its leader; in the case of orbán it is also the same, he has to control the judiciary, the electoral law, reach the media: everything he does not control wants to suffocate him. the fundamental question from the european point of view is that it has the political will to accept the denaturing of the democratic rule of law, and of course we have to make it clear that this is not going to be the case; this is the fundamental question. parliamentary majorities, ladies and gentlemen, do not give the ultra-nationalist regimes a license to run, neither in hungary, nor in catalonia, nor anywhere else in the european union. at the end of august, orbán promised to change ten laws to fight corruption and protect eu funds, and it gives the impression, because we are not naive, that it is about avoiding the application of the rule of law mechanism, which could freeze european money destined for hungary. we cannot be candid any longer and we cannot forget these ten years in which we are working and which we are not going to waste: the democratic rule of law has rules, and they do not concern only majorities, they have internal rules, so i understand that today the president of the commission has indicated that promises must be turned into deeds before we can move forward in mutual trust.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have had the opportunity to meet many hungarian politicians in the course of my international political activity and i can say that through the bank they are very cultured, educated and above all friendly people who do not deserve the way you treat them. secondly, i have been a guest in hungary many times, and hungary is a great country, and budapest in particular is a centre of central european culture, which we should be proud of, rather than arguing in this direction here with these words. i was also able to observe the last parliamentary elections and, without being influenced by anyone, i could see that these elections were held to high standards and certainly without any manipulation. this is not about the rule of law in hungary, nor is it about poland. it is about two countries that have a centre-right government, that are conservative, that do not want to play along with this migration madness, that do not want to play along with this continent being transformed into a central european union, to be disciplined with the means of the european union. and that's doubly and triple lame. what is wrong with a politician wanting to protect his borders against illegal immigration? what is wrong with a politician like viktor orbán, who was elected by the majority of his electorate, giving priority to the interests of his electorate? i say that it is the duty of every politician to act in this way. so please stop this bashing of hungary and treat hungary as a worthy member of the european family of nations.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, what do we have in this report, what specifically is hungary guilty of? we have one 2016 ecj ruling against hungary, but at the time, we have hundreds of ecj rulings that sided with citizens against other states. why don't you charge those other countries? we also have the opinion of the venice commission, which is not binding, and yet hungary has in the meantime changed its judicial system. and that's it. is there nothing else you could find? yes, hungarians believe that national identity is very important, that religious identity is important, and you would like to turn us all into one amorphous mass without identity, without common human values and, of course, without the christian faith. so it's not that hungary's human rights are being threatened, but this report is threatening the right of hungarians to their identity. and with each report like this, you are showing that you are not ready for pluralism and you are losing the trust of the citizens of the european union.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is basically repeating what the council and the commission have already said. the values on which the european union is founded are being violated by hungary. and the list of violations of the hungarian rule of law is known to us: - the restriction of judicial independence; - the disruption of the electoral system; - corruption, conflicts of interest; - restrictions on freedom of expression, academic freedom, the rights of the lgbti community and other minorities. today the message from this european parliament to the european commission must be clear once again. as long as hungary continues to undermine the rule of law, the european commission cannot and must not give money. it is not for the european commission to commit, show leniency or negotiate now. on the contrary, the european parliament is calling for the bar to be kept high for hungary. every announced move by budapest must be followed by action. only if there is concrete and verifiable progress can we talk about the release of european funds. we've been over this a few times. this is about the credibility of the european commission. this is about the credibility of the principles on which this european union is based. this is about our faith in the rule of law.
ms incir, would you accept a blue card from mr kósa?
so, mr kósa, you have her answer.
mr president, commissioner, dear didier reynders, great faithful of this house in strasbourg, ladies and gentlemen, if hungary were a candidate today to join the european union, well, that would not be possible, it would no longer meet the criteria for membership. this is the sad conclusion of my colleague gwendoline delbos-corfield's report. it shows, in a very precise and well-documented way, the many serious violations of the principles of the rule of law, media freedom and the independence of the judiciary, as well as the infringements of the freedoms of citizens. these violations, commissioner, are also well documented in your excellent annual report on the rule of law in the union. these violations are the responsibility of the populist political leader viktor orbán and the system he has put in place. so what do you do? we now have the tool of conditionality of european funds. but we know, this one is insufficient, too segmented, too slow. the recovery plan for hungary is a matter of great concern to my colleagues in the renew group and beyond. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. can you confirm, commissioner, that you are not considering under any circumstances the validation of the hungarian recovery plan? (speaker agrees to reply to a blue card)
blue-card speech. – during the yellow vest protests in france, around 2 000 people were injured, 11 people died. many lost their eye-sight. the council of europe and as well as the un human rights council expressed their deepest concerns about the excessive force used by the police using grenades and rubber bullets. however, this topic was never discussed here in this house. don’t you think that this is another flagrant example of double standards?
the answer is 'blue card'. mr president, as you know, the subject of this debate is the situation in hungary. you're referring to events that took place in france. these are the subject of a number of appeals to the french courts, because france is a state governed by the rule of law. the debate is worthwhile and decisions will have to be taken, but in complete independence. this independence which the hungarian judiciary so badly needs and this information from the press on which the french judiciary can rely, which is absent in a hungary where no free expression is possible today. this is the sad reality of hungary. and that is the subject of the report we are debating this afternoon.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, hypocrisy is one of the worst human traits. this report claims that hungary and its citizens are violating the fundamental provisions of the treaty and the foundation on which the european union rests. it's the opposite. in hungary and poland, the citizens stand most firmly behind the foundations of that old europe. europe, which was first family, community and state. hungary is being burdened, as is poland, by ideology. this new, corporate ideology that is being promoted, it is not the ideology of european citizens. hungary and poland are being blamed for being one of the few countries where george soros and schulz and the team and klaus schwab didn't elect the government, but the citizens themselves elected it. croatian citizens stand firmly with hungary and poland.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i have a problem and a solution. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union can only be invoked when the rights being violated are in application of union law, and not when those situations of violation occur in so many real-life situations. this in fact leads to a systematic and silent lack of protection of citizens in member states where, for various reasons, access to justice is restricted and citizens cannot assert their rights before the courts themselves, even though they are rights recognised in the charter. we are faced with what it means to be a citizen, whether the powers should be updated or not; it happens, as you know, also in spain where the regional institutions call for disobedience and contempt of judgments. but the conference on the future of europe included in its conclusions the proposal to make the charter of fundamental rights of the european union universal in order to provide solutions when this happens: the key is in the bag, we just have to turn it and cross that threshold. i bring you a problem, i bring you a possible solution, mr. reynders.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is my first time speaking in the chamber of the european parliament, here in strasbourg, and i greet all my colleagues. i was born in the netherlands and i chose france. a conscious and voluntary choice, an exclusive and definitive choice. you will understand that, in my background, i am intrinsically european, by all logic. if i listened to the discourse, i would have to join the european union, the european construction. but i think that your european organization, as you conceive it, is unnecessarily aggressive, ideologically chilling and ignorant, if not contemptuous, of democratic decisions. what bothers me is that the beautiful european idea in which i believe is being ruined by you by turning the european union into an enterprise for the destruction of nations. for someone like me, who knows the nations of the north as well as the nations of the south, it is the very negation of europe. europe is the daughter of athens and rome. it is rich in diversity, in its peoples, cultures, languages, traditions and know-how. but above all, europe is the daughter of freedom and the mother of democracy. that is why, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, and colleagues, you do not find me here with you, but in a group which defends the only true idea of europe, the europe which runs through our veins and which we must pass on to our children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we talk about fundamental rights, but this report attacks them: it denies the most basic right, the right to life, by obsessively promoting the tragedy of abortion; it disrespects the dignity of persons; it creates inequalities and divisions through collectivization, victimization and the promotion of ideologies such as gender. in 2020 and 2021, some governments have taken measures that we would never have imagined, and they deserve a deep reflection on what the situation of fundamental rights has been during the pandemic. it seems that the infringement of freedoms by means of incoherent restrictions does not matter: the spanish constitutional court has declared two states of emergency unconstitutional, but it prefers to attack poland and hungary in a biased way. nor do they care about the elderly confined in residential homes, or the health workers exposed to their work without the necessary protection, or the de facto imposition of vaccination, or the difference in treatment on the basis of possession of a certificate, or the censorship of free expression... it has used this occasion to engage in political activism and thus to help with the increasingly frequent violation of fundamental rights in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for almost a century the european union and europe have been the centre of democracy and respect for human rights. the whole world envies us. until march 2020, when someone, we don't know who it was because we mps never decided on it, decided to close the doors of the european parliament because of the covid-19 pandemic. i made it clear at the meeting that this would lead to the shutdown of the entire economy and that the economy and respect for human rights as we knew them would disappear. unfortunately, that's exactly what happened. two years of severe censorship followed, bans on work, restrictions on movement, rights to education, rights to health care. it's all gone into history. i hope we can put an end to this now and never make that mistake again.
dear vice-president, dear commissioner, for decades cohesion policy has been successfully reducing the economic and social disparities between the different parts of europe, so that people can live, work and raise families in all parts of europe with dignity and quality. in times of great change, we need to further increase accessibility, increase flexibility, but sometimes also increase the usefulness of cohesion funds and ensure that they reach those who need them most. this summer, croatia opened the pelješac bridge, the most important infrastructure project that connects the croatian and european territory, inspires and shows what we can do together, what we can do with a clear vision and with the smart use of european funds. for decades, connecting dubrovnik, a global tourism icon, and southern croatia with the rest of the country, with the rest of the european union, was just an unattainable dream. but today it is a reality. today, this has been achieved with the help of european funds. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the western balkans, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. but that will not be possible in the long run if we do not support the demographically vulnerable parts of europe, if we do not try to prevent and prevent the population collapse that threatens specific parts of europe. we must therefore be able to adapt, we must be able to prepare, without neglecting demographic policy, the demographic dimension of cohesion policy, which is, after all, one of the objectives of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which clearly states in article 174 that special attention must be paid to regions with demographic difficulties. in this respect, i thank my colleagues for producing this comprehensive, wide-ranging report and i really believe that in the years ahead we can continue to adjust cohesion policy in a way that makes even smarter use of resources, but also in a way that no longer ignores demographic problems.
mr vice-president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy must continue to fulfil its role as a key instrument for reducing regional disparities and achieving solidarity within the european union. it has proven to be a modern and flexible tool that can be quickly deployed in emergencies, as we have seen during the covid-19 pandemic. however, on the other hand, not everything is ideal and it is necessary to mention the delay in the negotiation of the partnership agreements, which will affect the managing authorities and the end-users in this financial period. we must not allow the funds provided to remain unspent because of lack of time and insufficient administrative capacity. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. i would like to mention here the concept of smart villages which envisages investments in digital and transport infrastructure, new technologies, educational health services in order to improve the quality of life in rural areas. the aim is to provide rural dwellers with the same amenities as those in cities, thereby making the countryside an attractive place to live and preventing its depopulation and decline. cohesion funds financed the construction of the pelješac bridge, which linked the world pearl dubrovnik with the rest of croatia, i.e. the european union. this is the crowning and most visible result of croatia's nine-year membership of the european union. let us strengthen cohesion policy to continue to bring europe and all its citizens closer together through such projects.
madam speaker, civilization as we know it has emerged from the 18th century industrial revolution and is based on fossil fuels and electricity. there was a time when 90% of the people worked in agriculture, and 90 people had to produce food to feed 100 people. today it's the other way around. today, about 10 percent of our workforce is employed in agriculture. so to produce, besides for himself and his family, for others, the farmer needs a tractor or machinery made of steel for which we need either coal, or means, or gas. then they need the synthetic fertilizer from the gas, they need that tractor to move oil, pesticides that are largely produced from fossil fuels, and that's where the food production we know has grown. and now because of these sanctions and the disconnection of energy, this cheap and easily available energy is disappearing and the whole system is collapsing. many companies, such as those that make fertilizer, are already cutting back. we all want better, cleaner, healthier alternatives, but they're not ready yet. there's no hydrogen-powered agricultural machinery or electricity, and there won't be for a while. if we continue down this road of deindustrialization, europe is going to be in deep poverty. therefore, a turn is needed!
the european union has relied for too long on international partners for the production of key equipment and the supply of raw materials, as a result of the often wrong industrial policies of the past. the trend of relocating production capacity to third countries, which had been gaining momentum for years, has come back to us like a boomerang in the midst of a pandemic of unprecedented proportions and reveals all the weaknesses of industrial policy. the new industrial policy, accompanied by strong investment in science and innovation, should therefore serve to strengthen the single market and build a strategically autonomous european union in which smes are the drivers of development. unfortunately, we have not yet reached the target of investing 3% of gdp in r&d and we therefore call for additional commitment to make europe more competitive. in addition, it is important to continue to work on reducing administrative burdens in the industrial sector and to make more flexible state aid rules to enable our companies to be more competitive on the global market. only an industrially strong europe can guarantee its citizens a european way of life.
madam chair, good day to you commissioner, colleagues, colleagues, to survive today we all need to be able to adapt quickly. this is especially true for our industry in these turbulent times. if we were talking about this same topic here three years ago on this day, it's quite certain that the key words would be green and digital. and we insisted on it, and let's do it, we still want to. but of course, after this terrible corona crisis, with this unfortunate war, i think we need to insist even more on the partnership of the european public and private sectors partnership and cooperation. and by that i mean, first of all, help with energy pricing and supply chains and the procurement of scarce materials, educated and skilled labor and so on and so forth. therefore, i believe that public-private partnership is the keyword that must dominate the european industrial strategy if we want, and i believe we all want, together, that europe's, i would say, industry 4.0 is successful, competitive, sustainable in the global market. (the speaker agreed to respond to the intervention request by raising his blue card)
the intervention requested by the blue card draw. thank you very much. mr flego, you mentioned the importance of strengthening the competitiveness of european industry, especially in the global market. my question is: do you think that a greater reliance on nuclear energy as a cheap and clean source of energy can boost the competitiveness of european industry vis-à-vis global competitors? - thank you. - thank you.
respond to the intervention requested by raising the blue card. if you could just repeat that last sentence, please? i didn't hear you. i'm sorry about that.
the intervention requested by the blue card draw. do you think that the european union should rely more on nuclear energy to make its companies more competitive in the global market?
respond to the intervention requested by raising the blue card. thank you for this specific question. yes, the answer is yes. i think we need to rely more on nuclear power, on our own power plants, on strategic autonomy in all segments, and especially on energy. - i know. of course, with the highest safety standards.
the study by the european parliament, which was drawn up on my proposal as rapporteur for the epp club on the consumer credit directives, has shown alarming results. more than 340 million bank accounts of citizens in the european union are loaded with so-called "minus" or allowed and exceeded overdrafts. in croatia, my country of origin, overstepping limits has been approved for almost 1 800 000 consumers. the problem is that overdrafts are one of the most expensive forms of debt and can easily lead to over-indebtedness, especially when one considers that interest rates on these financial products in some countries are as high as 35 percent. i therefore take this opportunity to call on member states to strongly support the european parliament's negotiating framework which has ensured a stronger position for consumers as the weaker party in the legal relationship with banks. the banks will no longer be able, without prior notice and the possibility of repayment in instalments, to ask for the reimbursement of the losses, nor will they be able, without the explicit consent of the consumer, to increase the limit of their liabilities. it is time to protect consumers from risky credit products emerging in the european single market.
the road to the introduction of the single charger was not an easy one. for a long time, we've been assured by cell phone manufacturers that the problem of charger stacking will be solved voluntarily by various non-binding mechanisms. i remember very well when, at the end of 2019, i was one of the initiators of the resolution on the single charger. not everyone believed at the time that we would be able to introduce a single charger because lobbying by the tech giants was truly unprecedented. so i'm pleased to be here today, in this plenary, proud to say that we've achieved one of the biggest victories for consumers and the environment, that the single charger, by 2024, will be a reality. usb-c will soon be the standard drive for all smartphones, tablets, cameras, headphones and other electronic equipment. most importantly, consumers will have the opportunity to buy the charger-free mobile devices that they typically keep piled up in their drawers, giving them a choice. it should also be noted that the introduction of a single charger will bring practical and financial benefits to consumers, as well as environmental benefits. it is estimated that by reducing the production and disposal of new chargers, we will reduce the amount of e-waste by almost 1000 tons per year, which shows our environmental responsibility. the commission has also taken the initiative to introduce a single charger for electric vehicles in the european union.
the european union is facing major demographic challenges in the form of an ageing population, falling birth rates and migration from rural to urban areas, all of which are leaving a visible mark on europe and, in the long term, depopulation of the union is also becoming a security issue. the main causes of demographic change that force people to move and deter others from moving are poor health and education infrastructure, poor transport connectivity and availability of public services, lack of broadband internet and fewer employment opportunities. depopulation is one of the fundamental challenges facing our continent and it was precisely this issue that should have been given priority in the design and implementation of the programme. specific questions: does the commission plan to adopt a specific strategy to combat depopulation? and, in addition, does the commission plan to carry out analyses and assessments of the impact of public policies on demography in the future?
thank you for your answer. demography has security, social and economic aspects and i believe it should be the fundamental backbone of all european union policies, including cohesion policy. i call on member states and regional authorities to make the most of the instruments of cohesion policy to tackle demographic challenges, and in particular to promote the concept of smart villages and other programmes to retain the population and attract young people in rural areas. question: is the commission satisfied with the implementation and widespread use of the smart villages concept? does the commission consider promoting smart villages to prevent depopulation?
mr president, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, europe has done a tremendous job. europe has done a lot of things, including military support, financial support, but it is not a time for self-celebration. we must continue our support for the brave ukrainians who are fighting not only for their designation, for their identity and belonging, but they are fighting for us, for europeans, for european values. they deserve our admiration and great support under the leadership of president zelensky and certainly the brave ukrainians. secondly, we have to resist. every time europe is tested, tested by foreign actors, by big powers, by invaders. this time i think there is a greater test of our unity. we have to resist and put together the european union because only if we are able to come together will we be able to overcome the crisis. indeed, there are many – starting with energy and ending with the social consequences of the crisis. but one thing is clear: unity is the key – unity within the council, but also unity within the european institutions. so let’s unite europe as never before.
mr president, i would like to thank you. putin claims that the people of donetsk, luhansk, kherson and zaporizhzhya have made their choice in so-called referendums, but they are in violation of international law. it's a lie, just as the annexation of crimea has been since the beginning of this war in 2014. the annexation of ukrainian regions by russia is a violation of international law. the list of war crimes that putin is accused of has become unimaginably long. massacres against the ukrainian people hardly make the front pages of newspapers anymore. we cannot let this war become background noise. we must not think that the energy crisis is the worst thing that will hit europe this winter. it's the war. and our sisters and brothers in ukraine are paying the ultimate price every day that we in europe do not take steps to stop funding this war. we have to stop buying fossil fuels from russia.
mr president, ‘we should have listened to poland’, ursula von der leyen said during her state of the union speech. she says we should listen to poland. we should have listened to poland. but you didn’t want to listen. you didn’t want to listen about nord stream. you didn’t want to listen about illegal migration. you didn’t want to listen about putin. and you didn’t want to listen about sanctions. sanctions? what about russian diamonds? why there is no embargo on russian diamonds? why? because the capital of the diamond industry, antwerp, in belgium, would be unhappy, isn’t it? why there is no sanctions on russian diamonds? nord stream is destroyed, but the diamonds are making money for russia. so stop lecturing poland. stop pointing us with your finger. stop lecturing us about democracy. do not be a hypocrite. take actions, not beautiful words. be like poland. be brave. believe in your own nations instead of being dependent on russian roubles. be brave. be like poland.
mr. chairman, colleagues, fellow citizens, a more objective view of the political relations between the superpowers of russia and the united states could have prevented war. let's imagine and ask ourselves: if mexico had decided to join the russian federation and put nuclear and other missiles on the border with the united states, what would be the reaction of the united states? the sanctions. we have had 70 years of historical experience in how sanctions affect the attempt to overthrow elected officials and that government. after 70 years of imposing economic sanctions, at the highest level, on cuba and north korea, today, seven decades later, the same dynasties are still in power. so, have we learned nothing? we need to turn to diplomacy. the war will lead to nuclear war and hundreds of millions of deaths. we must use the lessons of history and turn to peace.
mr. president, in addition to the brutal violation of international law, the open threat of nuclear attack, the russian regime has also begun to use energy as an instrument of war against europe, as a means of political and economic blackmail. contrary to what we may have heard from the representatives of kolakuśic, history shows us that compromise or disunity in the face of tyranny or imperialism cannot help. quite the opposite. history also shows us that it does not contribute to the relativizing of aggression, and it is especially incomprehensible when it comes from the mouth of a colleague who also comes from a country that was the victim of similar aggression only 30 years ago. ladies and gentlemen, the outcome of the war in ukraine will shape the future of europe. so this is a civilization test for europe. that is why it is necessary to unite and unite in support of the ukrainian people. it is therefore essential to return to the basic european policies, common sense policies, particularly in the fields of defence, security and energy. so it is, ultimately, a matter of survival in a new, merciless era of global uncertainty.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, an integral part of the russian great-state concept is the expansion of control and domination beyond its borders. by propaganda, hybrid action, disinformation and falsification of history, and since february 24th, unfortunately, by military aggression against the ukrainian people. croatia witnessed similar attempts 30 years ago, as a victim of the aggression of the great serbian milosevic regime, but unfortunately today the serbian authorities are already perfidiously implementing the standard hybrid version of serbia's policy from the nineties towards neighboring countries. by abusing the judiciary, by appropriating cultural heritage, by manipulating history, and by violating the rights of minorities. such toxic reflexes, which find their pattern today in russia and privileged political, energy and economic ties in relations with moscow, harm serbia, harm europe as a whole. and while that is the case, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is absolutely clear that serbia has no place in the european union and that serbia will not only formally distance itself from negotiations with the european union, but will also fundamentally, profoundly, unfortunately, distance itself from the whole of european civilization.
mr president, i thank all my colleagues for supporting the process of romania and bulgaria joining the schengen area. thank you, commissioner, and also thank you, minister. as of 2011, romania fulfils all technical conditions. it has made the necessary investments in security systems, strengthened legislation and constantly trained security officials. the war in ukraine has once again demonstrated that the romanian authorities have the capacity to handle large migration flows. we have ensured a steady flow of grain from ukraine to all parts of the world, preventing famine. we have been and are an integral part of the international community's efforts to end this war led by putin. we have therefore expressed our solidarity in difficult times for the european union. we have been and are providers of security and stability in the region. we ask nothing but a right we have earned. we ask to be received where we belong. otherwise, the risk of extremist currents emerging is immense and the price paid for the european project will be far too high. let me be clear, commissioner, let me be clear, minister, we can continue to offer solidarity in times of war, guarantee stability in times of difficulty. but we will no longer tolerate being humiliated. today, the romanians and bulgarians, the companies in romania and bulgaria, have no idea that the union will not show solidarity with them and grant them what has been profoundly and unfairly denied to them for so long: access to the schengen area.
mr. president, good afternoon. the last schengen enlargement was in 2007, when new member states, including slovenia, joined the area without internal borders, and in 2008, when switzerland joined. then the process stalled and it's a dead end. romania and bulgaria already fulfilled all the conditions in 2011, but were left in the waiting room by the member states until then. the s&d group strongly supports the extension of schengen and calls on the council to lift the blockade and to take an immediate decision on accession for romania and bulgaria. schengen is one of the european union's most tangible achievements. but he's been in crisis for years. today, six countries still carry out illegal border controls at their internal borders. austria also has a relationship with slovenia. this is despite the fact that the court of justice of the european union, which ruled on this issue, declared these controls illegal in the case of the same threat as of 2017. if we want to protect and preserve schengen, we must not resort to such an unacceptable and flagrant violation of the judgments of the courts. the commission must therefore act without delay and protect schengen by all means before it is too late.
it is clear, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that the full meaning of the european union, for its citizens, for the citizens, for the economy, is gained by the accession of these member states to the schengen area. the precondition, of course, is the clear fulfilment of all the strict technical conditions and, of course, the political will of the other member states in the council to support this. i would like to see bulgaria and romania implement this as soon as possible. and today, here, i want to express my great happiness because i am convinced that my croatia will become a member of the schengen area on 1 january 2023. thank you, dear colleagues, all of you who have expressed such a clear will and i am sure that such a decision will be taken in the competent committee, and here in the plenary session, so that the citizens of croatia and the economy of croatia will receive the much desired, but also deserved gift for the new year of '23. and all those who have been presenting flat and inaccurate information about croatia here today, i ask them to calm down, i ask them to apologize, not to shout in this space and not to divide citizens and citizens of europe into first and second class citizens for their internal political points.
mr president, dear vice-president schinas, dear colleagues, romanian and bulgarian citizens have been waiting now for 11 years to enjoy all the advantages of free movement and to enter into the schengen area. parliament has repeatedly emphasised its support for the schengen enlargement, as we do today, because it is crucial for the equality of citizens within the eu. stronger economic cooperation, enhanced connectivity, but also better protection of the external borders is in the interests of the whole european union and not only in the interests of those two countries. this is especially true at a time of great uncertainty and damaged security architecture across the entire continent. ladies and gentlemen, soon we will discuss and vote here in the european parliament on the report on croatia’s accession to the schengen area. let me be clear, in december it is high time for the council to act not only for croatia, but also for romania and bulgaria, because this is in the interests of these countries, but this is also in the interests of all europe and of fostered security on the european continent.
mr president, the schengen area is one of the most important achievements of the european union. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of asylum applications submitted by member states in the framework of the european asylum system. bulgaria and romania are doing that mining job, guarding the eu border. they have long since met all the conditions and therefore deserve to be part of schengen. in addition, i must look back at the repeated lies told in this hall against croatia. the commission has also received a request from the croatian authorities to submit a report on the implementation of the schengen acquis. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the croatian authorities regarding the lack of a proper border management system. those who claim otherwise are persistently deceiving the public for their own petty political interests. croatia's accession to schengen is in the interest of the whole european union and this must be emphasised once again here.
author. mr president, haiti is experiencing a catastrophic social, political and human rights situation which has deteriorated further in recent years. the alarming increase in violence has led to the displacement of tens of thousands of families in urban and peri-urban areas of the capital. due to gang violence, thousands of people have been forced to flee their homes and are being directly affected in their freedoms and access to basic services. from january to the end of june this year, there were 934 murders, 684 people were injured and there were 680 kidnappings across the capital. several cases of repeated gang rape were committed against women and girls, confirming the systematic use of gender-based violence. the economic crisis and the runaway inflation are added to this, and then there is the policy of mass deportation of haitian migrants and refugees by the united states or arbitrary and discriminatory detentions. we can't keep failing the people of haiti. we must be actively supportive and reject all forms of interference and neo-colonialism. we need diplomatic solutions and to ensure that support and social aid reaches those who need it and with transparency. we also need to support all those who are resisting in the country, including trade unions, youth and human rights organisations, religious organisations, and to support the restoration of power and legitimacy to public institutions.
the european parliament is the epp group's head. uachtaráin, the current course of haiti's imithe go oil will be completely in the taste of the order. parents are not responsible for sending their children to school. it's like a water glacier. she's in the hospital, she's in the bathroom, she's in the shower, she's in the bathroom, she's in the shower, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom, she's in the bathroom. it is a political machine similar in appearance to the one made by uachtarán haití anuraidh. in the years since, the boils have dropped by almost 30% after a few years of decline. the drug trafficking and drug use in port-au-prince is 40% of the total population and is the second largest crime in haiti, behind drug trafficking and drug trafficking. i urge the haitian authorities to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation is brought under control. we must take steps to ensure that the law is enforced in this disorderly situation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will just start by saying that unfortunately this resolution on haiti does not have a translation into croatian so that we can at least be on an equal footing in terms of language. today in the european parliament, human rights in haiti, myanmar and ethiopia are being discussed. croatia was struck by two earthquakes in 2020. two and a half years have passed since the zagreb earthquake and almost two years since the banovina earthquake. to date, not a single house in zagreb, the european union, the croatian government or the city of zagreb has been renovated. in collecting the documentation, people spent over ten thousand kuna, or over three croatian minimum wages. to date, only one house has been restored on banovina at the expense of the state. the european union and the government of the republic of croatia have not provided a minimum for the start of reconstruction. whole families sleep in containers in winter and summer. the third winter, banovina will sleep in 15 square meters of ice containers. they sleep five, six people. they're for cooking, provided there's something to cook, for children to do their homework. what human rights are you talking about today when croatia, a member of the european union, has been in ruins for two and a half years, without the basic conditions for life.
on behalf of the ppe club. the covid-19 pandemic, in addition to posing a public health threat of unprecedented proportions, has also exposed the fragility of the health systems of the member states, causing a chain of border closures and a drop in economic activity in the european union. it is necessary to clearly state that mistakes were made at the beginning of the pandemic and to condemn the behaviour of certain states that imposed restrictions on the export of medical equipment to other member states when they needed it most. this is precisely what shows us the need for a common european response to future health crises. member states, especially smaller ones that do not have their own pharmaceutical industry, cannot fight a pandemic of this scale on their own without jointly procuring vaccines and medical equipment. despite the difficulties, the joint procurement of vaccines is a success because smaller and less economically developed member states that do not have production on their territory have access to the vaccine at the same time as larger and wealthier member states. this is another example of the importance of european solidarity. all eu citizens must have equal protection against all health threats and access to the same care and treatment regardless of the country in which they live. the experience of the pandemic has shown us that it is crucial to ensure monitoring, scientific analysis and coordination of member states' actions, to have in reserve and to distribute fairly medical countermeasures, and to ensure the free movement of essential products in times of crisis, as well as to enable better and more resilient health systems. we must continue to build a strong european health union in which all member states coordinate with each other, prepare together, respond to this and future public health crises.
the commission should be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission in order to ensure that the measures taken are effective and proportionate. let's just think back to the empty shelves in the stores at the beginning of the pandemic. we want to avoid such scenarios in the future. it is therefore important that the commission has presented a long-awaited instrument to guarantee the functioning of the single market in crisis situations. the activation of the system will prohibit member states from imposing restrictions on the export of products to other member states. unfortunately, the commission has provided for exemptions from the application of this regulation for medical devices and medical countermeasures, which does not contribute to building a resilient single market in crisis conditions. recalling that at the beginning of the pandemic, member states where the production of protective equipment such as masks and gloves was concentrated restricted the export of protective equipment to other countries, thus causing shortages, we want to avoid this situation. i therefore invite the council and parliament to include in their negotiating framework the application of the regulation to medical devices and countermeasures. solidarity between member states must never again be called into question.
mr. chairman, the budgets of the citizens are under attack from at least three sides: inflation that dates back to before the war, the rise in energy prices and, ultimately, the collapse of the economy, which will reduce employment and incomes for many. here in france, the unions have called for a general strike starting today at 18h10. we were in brussels last week. every now and then, there are protests around parliament, from farmers to citizens, over the rising cost of living. and winter hasn't even started yet. so, the first three months of autumn haven't even passed yet. in our croatia, even before this crisis, a significantly larger part of household budgets was spent on directorships compared to many other european countries. prices for citizens have not changed and the bulk of the burden falls on the croatian electricity industry which has started to accumulate large losses and threatens to go bankrupt if this continues. these costs can be covered for a time by budget and funds, which will become more difficult to meet as the economy collapses and recessions occur. that dam can hold water for a while, but very, very short. the only solution is to get enough cheap energy, otherwise our economies and our households will collapse. when our country was at war, nobody shared the crisis with us like this, and we also got an arms embargo. this suicidal policy needs to be stopped.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the european parliament, the council and mr hahn of the commission consider the council's proposal for the 2023 budget to be unacceptable and inadequate. we have a war on our border; we have inflation running in the european union at a record 10% for decades; we have a surge in punctuality and poverty; we have declining employment; we have the risk of recession in 2023 for the european economy. and you come with a budget full of cuts, gentlemen of the czech presidency. the european parliament, from the right to the left, is united in demanding things that are absolutely elementary and necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one. we must overcome the 1% taboo on the community budget, mr hahn, and we must rush to create additional own resources without further delays in the interinstitutional agreement, otherwise the european recovery fund will also be in danger. we must also strengthen the union's central budgetary capacity with new instruments, as we did with the european recovery fund. a eurobond or a new european fund to deal with the energy crisis. the commission proposes it, the european central bank asks for it. the national egoism and the neo-liberal ideology of some member states must not be allowed to hold back european integration. it is not possible for germany to say 200 billion for my national programme. we cannot have a budget of 1% to deal with all these crises. we are united in demanding serious budgetary improvements.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. europe is in an emergency situation that requires extraordinary solutions. the 23rd year is going to be very difficult. the russo-ukrainian war is tearing apart the economies of all the member states, and the outlook is not at all rosy. europe cannot remain strong, and ukraine cannot be an effective backstop, if its economies are weakening. we need a fire extinguisher now. access to union funds should therefore be facilitated for all member states in 23. the budgetary and financial rules should be adapted to the current exceptional situation. the normal bureaucratic and political conditions should be temporarily suspended. european integration is a 70-year-old peace project, so it is not surprising that budgetary regulation has not been war-related. but that's over now. europe's economy needs a much faster and more efficient support system than it has at present, and we should work on this.
madam president, commissioner, council representative, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for 2023, as we have proposed, is a budget which helps families and businesses to respond to the challenges, the problems, that the russian invasion of ukraine has brought us. we want more growth, more internal solidarity. we cannot forget humanitarian aid and support for ukraine and other countries in africa, for example, and external solidarity is essential. but there is one thing missing, commissioner. we must have a budget that helps make europe strong, a geopolitical europe, with strategic autonomy, and that is why we need programmes for the energy union, the digital union, health, strengthening the civil protection mechanism, security and defence. a revision of the multiannual financial framework is necessary because our budget is bursting at the seams and we do not have enough resources for this autonomous european union that we need. i also have a request to the council. you have many resources at your disposal. it would be criminal to lose a single penny of what's available. in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework alone, member states have around eur 100 billion to implement by 2023. you have to. in addition, it is urgent that they use the current multiannual financial framework. partnership agreements have zero enforcement. businesses need it, families need it. investigators are waiting for resources. local authorities must move forward with investments that together enable competitiveness and cohesion.
president, minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the coming budgetary year is certainly a key year. this is because of the challenges facing the union. they 're well known: the war in ukraine, the effects of covid, geopolitical relations, energy and so on and so forth. but 2023 is also a key year because it is a pivotal year in our multiannual financial planning. next year will be the last year of payments from the previous planning period and the year in which the commission will propose a comprehensive evaluation - preferably a revision - of the current financial framework. but the ever-rising prices should also wake up the good house father in the eu. for example, the eu is currently borrowing massively on the financial markets for the recovery plan. the expenditure involved is, albeit subject to certain conditions, fairly well known. i have repeatedly pointed out the savings that can be made by raising the pace of borrowing in the near term, to take advantage of the present, somewhat lower interest rates. there is also the increased eu spending next year as a result of the eu recovery plan. the quality of these investments and reforms is of course crucial. but here too we should be very careful not to encourage the inflationary spiral into which we are threatened. the frontloading of expenditure on urgent needs may seem obvious, but in the context of already generally rising prices, increased expenditure can also have a very negative impact on that price level. we must be careful not to fall into a vicious circle of hell.
madam president, as we move on to the next budget, it’s important that we look at how the previous budgets have been used, but if we look at the use of next generation funds, what are the two pillars of fund management in spain? kafkaesque bureaucracy and obsessive centralism. that’s not news. let’s look at the figures. while spain is the main beneficiary of the recovery and resiliency facility, 80% – 80%! – are yet to be completed. it’s even worse than under the 2014—2020 multiannual financial framework, when 76 were failed. this was rock—bottom, but now they are even better. now, for smes, which are the core of the catalan economy, only 9% of the assigned net resources were distributed in 2021. this outrageous inefficiency of the spanish management of eu funds makes one wonder whether it is an active boycott. who knows? what is sure is that spanish bureaucrats and politicians just don’t give a damn. they are just lost in translation. to them, next generation means no rush. their job is to drive people in business crazy with endless red tape and paperwork until the next generation. catalonia needs independence to get rid of this nightmare, and the european taxpayers would also be much better off.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, the budget is always one of the most important tools that we have to influence the lives of the people. this is valid at local level, at national level, and also at european level. the budget of the european union should be a budget for investments, for cohesion, for making our economy more modern, cleaner, greener, more digital, and also for financing our traditional priorities: farmers, rural development and cohesion amongst european areas. this is the primary scope of the budget. however, unforeseen developments always occur. since the beginning of this multiannual financial framework, we had to cope with the covid pandemic, with the economic and social consequences generated by this pandemic, and now with the war in ukraine, which means we have to help many host communities which have received hundreds of thousands of ukrainian refugees. we have to invest in reducing our dependency on russian fossil fuels, in improving our efficiency, and we have to invest in renewables more and faster than we thought. the budget should never become just a budget of crisis, just a budget to react to unpredictable crises. it should still be allowed to finance investments. this is why the budget needs to be enough in terms of volume. this is also why, together as the commission, as parliament and as the council, we will need to work on the revision of the multiannual financial framework, so that it can fund what we planned to fund before the crisis, but can also give answers to the people during times of crisis – because people expect us to react. congratulations to the general rapporteur for making the most of this tight budget under difficult circumstances.
madam president, the 2023 budget is anything but a routine exercise. the current political and geopolitical context presents us with new challenges. it is a question of whether we want to stay in the top flight. even in a priori european affairs, we are not always the first to intervene, to propose solutions, in short, to play the role that should be ours and that comes naturally to us. the united states, it must be admitted, is by far the biggest supporter of ukraine in budgetary terms. this does not mean that the european union is doing nothing. on the contrary, what europe is doing is good, useful and essential, it is to our credit, but it is not enough. the question for us is: will we still be able to provide sufficient support to ukraine to defend itself against the russian aggressor in the event that the political direction of the united states is no longer the same as in 2022? the years 2023, 2024 and 2025 will therefore be of paramount importance. if we are to answer this central question, we have very little time left. the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework - which we, the european parliament, are the only ones calling for at this stage - should be the starting point for a reorientation of european policy and should result in substantial budgetary choices, both in terms of volume and quality, for the medium and long term.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the years go by, the budgets go by and invariably they all look the same. the european union is always quick to ask more of the states, more of their citizens, and it wants money, money and more money. what's all this for? less sovereignty, fewer companies, fewer farmers, fewer fishermen, fewer jobs, fewer public services, less growth, less energy and less purchasing power. instead, more bureaucracy, more interference and a collapsing middle class. and let us not forget that no one has been unaware of the major energy crisis, an energy crisis that some would like us to believe is the only fact of the ukrainian conflict. but the reality, particularly in france, is that it is due to the dismantling of our nuclear industry organized by brussels and to political decisions which will plunge millions of families and people into poverty and cold tomorrow. so is the eu less effective because it lacks the means? no, i'm not going. it is, on the contrary, achieving its ultimate goal: globalisation, delocalisation, deregulation, the uberisation of our society; and mass immigration, without which there would have been no samuel paty, without which there would have been no lola. in addition to the laxity and docility of mr macron's government, the declassing and savagery of our societies is you. we will not vote for another penny for this europe.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. i want to raise three problems with this budget. the first is, in my view, the insufficient level of payment. we are in the final year of payments linked to the previous financial perspective and the payments in this budget have been designed very conservatively. moreover, the letter of amendment reduced the amount available from five and a half billion to just over three. which narrows it down even further. the commissioner said that the commission was not prepared to accept the proposal. of course, i'm talking about potential insolvency, but we had these bad experiences from 2014 to 2016 and we need to remember them. the second issue is inflation. she's already over 10%. probably a few percentage points higher next spring. the project covers all expenses. it's not in the budget. and finally, the last thing - help for ukraine. even after this corrective list, it is absolutely underestimated, and the help to the countries neighboring ukraine to accept refugees is symbolic. i just want to point out that poland has so far spent almost 9 billion euros on this aid, and we are receiving support that is purely symbolic. in 2023, this simply cannot be tolerated.
madam president, that is another budget that is not adequate to meet the needs of the people and the workers. the proposal for the 2023 budget, when taking into account the forecast values for inflation for this year, will represent a real decrease compared to the 2022 budget. the situation is worsening in the allocations for cohesion policy, fisheries, agriculture and rural development, which, unchanged and subject to conditions imposed by the regulations, will be unable to cope with the worsening socioeconomic situation faced by small and medium-sized producers and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. if the answer to these questions is short, we shall reject the option of increasing the appropriations for militarism and war. we have put forward proposals to mitigate these limitations, including, among others, increased funding for cohesion funds and production support in the eaggf and eaggf, the creation of a transport posei to respond to the problems of the outermost regions, support for public services and the reversal of liberalisation and the restoration of public control in the energy sector - these are some of the many proposals to respond to the problems facing the people.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, for the sake of the budget of the european union, today, from this place, i call for the immediate termination of the contract for the purchase of vaccines against covid-19 worth 71 billion euros. that contract is currently under criminal investigation by the european public prosecutor's office. believe it or not, the european commission has ordered 4.6 billion doses for less than 450 million people in the european union. this is what the pages look like, dozens of pages, of a contract that is going to spend 71 billion. these are not irrelevant pages. these pages cover vaccine quality, prices, manufacturer's liability for vaccine-induced harm, and vaccine recalls. we need to terminate the damaging contract right away.
madam president, i think that it's completely clear that for the past two years, europe has really been deciding on its priorities in unprecedented circumstances in which we had to tackle the economic and social consequences of the pandemic. now, this year, the circumstances under which we are negoitating the annual budget for the next year are even more dramatic. europe gave a clear answer to the unprovoked, brutal russian aggression and took a stance together with the brave people of ukraine. we all feel, we all see that a new and different europe is being shaped by the war and that a new europe is emerging, one that has to focus on key priorities and sound policies. this definitely means focusing on securing energy supplies, continued investment in security and defence and support for humanitarian aid, but also preventing the new migration crisis. the announced joint procurement act for the european defence industry is the right incentive for cooperation between the member states, as well as for the industry that has been mobilised like never before. likewise, with the european chips act, we have the possibility to increase europe's independence with regard to semiconductor production in times when global supply chains are significantly disrupted. but all these efforts require an appropriate budgetary architecture. they all require the revision of the mff. this is something that is urgent, this is something that is crucial. in the end, this can only be achieved if parliament is united in its message for this, but also for this annual budget. i hope that, together with our colleagues from the commission, but also from the council, we can continue in building a resilient and secure europe.
the european union is currently facing extremely complex challenges in the form of high energy prices, high inflation, questionable economic growth and the consequences of the war in ukraine. science and research play a key role in fuelling future growth and strengthening the resilience of the european union and its economy in the face of crisis. the only way for europe to remain competitive in the global market in these difficult circumstances is to invest more in innovation, especially in digitisation, where we certainly cannot compete with china and other global players at low prices. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. the commission will also be able to use the appropriations for the structural funds to support the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy. support for rural areas and less developed regions must remain a key priority in line with the true objectives of cohesion and the cap. there is not and there will not be a single europe in which some are twice as rich as others, have access to excellent health, education and other public services and others do not. finally, i would like to stress that health is one of the priorities that must not be spared. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. they represent a huge step forward in making quality healthcare accessible to all eu citizens, regardless of the country or region in which they live. in this way, we are investing and laying the foundations for a real european health union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. free travel within the schengen area one of our greatest achievements is at risk. because regardless of the coronavirus patchwork in the spring of 2020, there are problems. there are the long-standing internal border controls that some member states have introduced and seem to be prolonging indefinitely. we social democrats have for years called these arbitrarily extended border controls what they are now, in the view of the european court of justice: simply illegal. internal border controls must be limited in time. the ecj has set clear boundaries which must be respected. and if necessary, there must be consequences. the member states and the commission must do more to protect effectively this, one of our greatest achievements. we want people to be able to move freely and meet each other in the european union.
mr president, schengen is one of the european union's greatest successes, and strengthening the union is not about tearing down existing elements but about adding and upgrading them, and it is clear that croatia, romania and bulgaria are missing from the mosaic called schengen. and do you know how much the so-called non-schengen costs us? every extra hour of waiting at the border between croatia and slovenia costs our bus drivers about 100 euros an hour, and road hauliers an additional 50 euros an hour. if we reintroduced, god forbid, border controls in all 27 member states, we would lose between 2.5 and 5.1 billion euros, and if we abolished schengen, for example, the average slovak would lose between 100 and 350 euros a year. and don't forget that waiting at the border is also why some tourists don't want to go to some tourist destination. so please, let's stop closing ourselves and i'm really looking forward to 1 january 2023 and the extension of schengen to croatia so that i can come here to the european parliament from my budget without anyone asking me anything at the border.
mr. chairman, the storm of war in ukraine has triggered the largest movement of displaced persons in europe since world war ii. at a time of deep uncertainty for the entire continent, we are also witnessing a dramatic increase in illegal crossings on the so-called balkan route, with over 100,000 illegal migrants this year alone. the situation is bad, and it threatens to become extremely malignant, in large part because of serbia's actions. serbia's ruthless abuse of the visa regime rewards countries that do not recognize kosovo and thus allows migrants from countries that were previously absent, such as burundi, india or cuba, to appear at european borders under the cover of night. the creation of migration pressure on the national and european border once again opens up a fundamental question, the question of serbia's civilizational orientation. in this crisis that it unfolds it seems to be at least european. if this continues, the biggest price of this insincere and anti-european policy of the authorities will be paid, unfortunately, by the citizens of serbia. in europe, there can be no condoning any form of state role in the artificial creation of migration pressure, especially when it comes to a regime that still finds its model in russia and privileged political and energy relations with moscow.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new vaccine. it's clear, fortunately, that a good deal of it is found very quickly, but it's also, unfortunately, clear that a good deal of it is lost over a long period of time. as a parent, as a husband, i can't even begin to imagine all the agony that we can and must feel for the missing people, the missing children, and their families. unfortunately, despite the high number of missing persons we are facing, there is still a lack of a common european framework at european level. the circumstances of such disappearances are particularly distressing when it comes to disappearances as a result of crime, as a result of organised crime, such as trafficking in human beings, in its blackest form. the exploitation of victims, whether it's sexual or labor exploitation, unfortunately happens as we speak. this form of appalling human rights violation is not only a feature of some other distant countries, but unfortunately is also present here in europe. that is why i welcome the initiatives taken so far. we need to establish a common framework for missing children and all persons as a matter of urgency and i look forward to deeper cooperation between member states, but also to an even stronger engagement of the european union.
madam president, i have to go. each year we record the progress of the western balkan countries on their path to the european union, which is not as dynamic as we would like, and each year we renew our promises to the people of the region. this year gives me hope that the union is finally delivering on its commitments. the opening of negotiations with north macedonia and albania and the proposal to grant the union's candidate status to bosnia and herzegovina restore the lost credibility in the region, and we must not allow the people of the region to be let down again at the end of the year. it is therefore essential that the council supports the immediate abolition of visas for kosovo. as one of the leading meps in the mediation process in serbia, as was my colleague bilčík before me, i call on all political actors to implement reforms more constructively and to cooperate with the institutions of the european union. the dialogue between the parties is a positive example that there is a mutual interest in cooperation. i would like to inform the leaders of the balkan countries that in the current situation, there is no time to sit on two chairs at the same time. it is necessary to choose and sit at a common table. and i want to tell the people of the region once again that the future of the whole region is in the european union. together, now.
the process of enlargement of the european union to the western balkans is taking too long and is very slow. we all agree on this, of course, but it is now clear that the countries of the western balkans are no longer waiting for europe, but the other way around. europe is waiting for the western balkans. europe, which is also the largest financial donor to these countries and the largest, of course, trading partner. europe is waiting for these countries to say clearly what they want - to clearly and unequivocally define and implement all the necessary actions and processes on this demanding path. without a penny in their pocket: honestly, decisively and courageously; and before that, solve their bilateral problems because europe no longer wants to import the bilateral problems of a few countries. unfortunately, he has enough problems of his own. so from this place i can only wish for all the countries of the western balkans that rapprochement and accession to the european union be at the top of their governments' priorities and then that together we do everything to shorten and accelerate that path to the european union.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have to admit that if it had not been for ukraine, we would probably have continued to run into delays in the western balkans, despite the great work of commissioner várhelyi, to whom i would like to extend a public applause. because, you see, especially in neighbourhood policies, there is not only the issue of formally meeting the community's parameters, but increasingly that of political investment in the candidate countries. i say this as an italian, because my country has always had a natural vocation towards the western balkans, and i say this as a european, because our inertia has allowed russia, china, turkey and other countries to gain ground in that area. stabilisation in the region requires respect for minorities, and the fight against corruption, jihadism, organised crime and the illegal trafficking of drugs, arms and human beings. in the case of bosnia and herzegovina, these priorities are complemented by the urgency of electoral reform leading to pacification and full and legitimate representation of the various ethnic groups. you see, the european political community, which president macron strongly wants, may perhaps be a useful place of comparison with these countries, but only that strong european political investment in the entire region will really make a difference.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that all our colleagues are not aware of the geographical position of bosnia and herzegovina and the other countries of the western balkans. because all these countries are in the heart of europe. all these countries are surrounded by other eu members. the european union, to be a territorial whole, not like it is now: like an american doughnut, with a big hole in the middle. we are in a new period, a period of tension between east and west. we are in a time of war. if we don't fill up our whole territory and stop being like the american doughnut, someone else could fill it up, and that would be a significant threat to the security of all the other member states because we would have some other identities in the heart of europe that don't belong to the european union.
the eu's strong presence, under the auspices of the honourable president, is crucial to the stability of south-east europe. it therefore encourages the european commission to recommend conditional candidate status for bosnia and herzegovina. in this regard, i welcome the decisions of high representative schmidt, which have imposed amendments to the electoral legislation and the constitution of the federation of bih. however, a systematic reform of the electoral legislation, which will ensure the equality of the croatian people to the end, is yet to follow and the dynamics of bih's european integration will depend on it. it is unacceptable that the bosniaks continue to elect a fake croat representative to the presidency of bih. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full role in the world. on the other hand, serbia is seeing a setback in the european process, and this is best reflected in the hegemonic concept of the serbian world, especially in relation to montenegro, as well as a capricious policy towards russia. until serbia is clearly defined as belonging politically, culturally and civilisationally to the west, it has no place in the european union.
mr president, i would like to speak here today, first of all, about bosnia and herzegovina. to welcome the european commission's proposal to grant candidate status to a country which has gone through perhaps the bloodiest and most difficult path to its independence, to the preservation of its existence and is now in a special, specific situation: on the road to stability, on the road to the democratization of the country, but also on the road to the european union. i would like to tell my colleagues that anyone who cares, who really cares about bosnia and herzegovina, must understand that attempts to subordinate croats to second-class citizens simply cannot pay off, that they cannot succeed, and not only that they are, which they also are, deeply and morally wrong. every constituent people should have the right to legitimate representation and only by respecting all three constituent peoples with full equality can we think and claim that bosnia and herzegovina has a european future and for that reason i am glad that the european commission has recognised this and also recommended working on amendments to the electoral law as a prerequisite for any further progress.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the biggest achievement of the first european political community summit is probably that it happened at the moment it happened. bringing together 44 leaders from across the continent at a time of war and overlapping crises in europe is something positive, particularly given the need for political and security cooperation, as well as the need to send another strong message to the kremlin as regards its isolation. a flexible format where leaders can meet and discuss issues of common interest and also hold bilateral or trilateral meetings is certainly not useless. there always has to be a space for dialogue. for instance, the fact that on the margins of the summit, the leaders of france, azerbaijan, romania and the president of the european council could meet and discuss the armed conflict in the south caucasus, apparently achieving some progress, is a positive spillover from the summit. that being said, the summit was not exactly a meeting of democratic leaders, given the presence of certain authoritarian rulers who make a mockery of democracy. macron’s original idea of gathering, and i quote, ‘democratic [european] nations that subscribe to our shared core values’, will have to wait for better times. nevertheless, we must hope that the european political community will become an instrument for dialogue that, at least in the long run, will contribute to the goal of bringing european states closer, not only in terms of interest, but also in values.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european political community met for the first time on 6 october. it brought together the presidents or heads of government of 44 european states in prague, including the 27 members of the european union, as well as countries such as the united kingdom, armenia and ukraine. this new body might have been a good idea if it had foreshadowed the creation of a confederal type of europe of nations. in the long run, it could have been an alternative to the overly centralised model of the european union, which respects the sovereignty of the european states. unfortunately, it's the other way around. it was created, on the initiative of president macron, only to attract the independent european states into the union's orbit. this is why the president of the european council and the president of the european commission were invited to attend. far from proclaiming a europe of nations, the european political community is therefore nothing but the expression of the imperialism of the union which is trying to take advantage of the fragility of the united kingdom under liz truss and the distress of armenia and ukraine to advance its pawns. the failure of the meeting on 6 october, which led to nothing, shows the vanity of this endeavour. the european political community is dead, long live the europe of nations!
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, minister, commissioner, despite question marks, i welcome the epc’s additional informal format to face the enormous security challenges we face in europe. good that uk and turkey were there. good that russia and belarus were not there. good that armenia and azerbaijan used our table instead of the moscow—based one. i urge european leaders to invite the legitimate representative of belarusian people to the next meeting of the epc and discuss the security situation there.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. according to petr fiala, the epc offers a special opportunity for states which are destined to live together but usually get little opportunity to speak. i agree with you on this. we need formats to enable political dialogue, to find solutions to the many complex tasks we face. we need political foresight and perhaps even more political courage. the epg can be a step in that direction. how can the 27 eu member states, together with many other political forces on our continent, tackle the crucial question of the radical socio-ecological transformation needed to tackle climate change and restore peace? in 1973, when the conference on security and cooperation in europe began, it was not yet possible to foresee the significance of the helsinki final act. we should remember that. in view of the challenges, perhaps we should make the epg a workable format, like csce 2.0, which not only allows for exchanges and confidential discussions between very different and certainly not only like-minded partners, but which also leads to concrete, binding conditions. let us learn from the failure of paris in 1990 and now draw up a package to create structures capable of action.
the meeting of the leaders of european countries from iceland to azerbaijan in prague, madam president, discussed, among other things, energy and energy independence. the croatian prime minister went there only a few days after it turned out that it was he who made the decision to shut down our refinery in sisak and export oil from croatia. he pushed our croatian colonial position, so even though we have our own crude oil, we now export it, and import finished petroleum products. after this scandal, every normal government resigns, but not the corrupt despot in croatia; responsibility is a concept unknown to them. our prime minister, who works against his own country and its energy capacity, cannot give energy advice to other countries in prague. recently, the people of the oil company in croatia, which was set up by him and his party, were arrested for a large gas robbery. under the leadership of this ruling party, various corrupt networks have developed in croatia that undermine the energy system. they were eager to seize the opportunity, under the guise of increasing the price of energy in the international market, to further grab the pockets of citizens to take for themselves. such people should be barred from european institutions, not called upon to decide our destinies.
mr. president, europe has clearly, humanely and civilisationally, made a stand at the outset of the war and is helping the ukrainian people in their fight for freedom. the use of energy as an instrument of war against europe, as a means of political and economic blackmail, calls us to respond even more unitedly and even more intelligently. the council's conclusions are certainly moving in the right direction, but the uncertainty ahead of the coming winter, and even more so ahead of the coming year, is not yet gone. we need political, military and financial support, because this is ultimately the ultimate civilization test for all of europe. we will need even more solidarity, even more togetherness and unity in support of the ukrainian people, but we will also need the wisdom to avoid the worst consequences for both the european economy and the european citizens. but what is crucial is to understand that the outcome of the war does have an impact, and will have an impact, on all of europe and will have an impact on all of the european citizens. and that's why the fight for western civilization is now not just in words, but in deeds.
mr. chairman, when cryptocurrencies came along, people rushed because they felt that they could be free from the conventional financial system, which is essentially centralized, indebted and unfair. digital assets and digital money can now go one of two ways: either as tools of liberation or as tools of enslavement. we can live in a world where capital is easily accessible, where it's easier to finance small businesses and ideas, where value can be easily and securely transferred from one end of the world to the other -- or -- the other version is a world where centralized entities control what we can buy, or are allowed to buy, and what rights we have based on social credit and biometric surveillance. a world where we're all going to be locked out of our accounts, our digital cages, based on inappropriate social media statuses. the crypto market should be regulated, but in a way that would bring about the earliest possible implementation and acceptance of cryptocurrencies. however, the regulation proposed here will require measures that undermine the very nature and idea of cryptocurrencies - the idea of freedom and decentralization - which slows down rather than encourages development. we want security, but not at the cost of freedom, never at the cost of freedom. also, the paying citizens should be left to choose. i am absolutely against restricting, even abolishing, cash payments. without cash, we don't control it, but the banks and the government.
rapporteur. – mr president, vice-presidents, schengen has been waiting for croatia. the croatian people have also waited and now the moment has arrived. it is time for the final steps towards full european integration. croatia has shown it is fully prepared for the lifting of internal border controls at the same time that it is joining the eurozone. croatia has successfully completed the most comprehensive and detailed evaluation for schengen membership for any eu country so far. the commission in 2019 and the council in 2021 have formally confirmed croatia’s readiness to become a full member of schengen following their respective evaluations and naturally the adoption of all required measures. in addition, croatia is the only member state that has so far implemented an independent mechanism for monitoring and controlling the actions of the authorities in the area of irregular migration. let me now, only for a few seconds, speak in my native language exactly to give the signal that this is a european achievement. senhor presidente, a croácia cumpre todos os requisitos. a união tem de cumprir e de honrar a sua palavra. como é possível que nesta altura, depois de todas as avaliações e exames que foram feitos, depois de todas as medidas que foram adotadas no campo da segurança, mas no campo dos direitos fundamentais também, que haja estados-membros que no conselho ainda hesitem ou estejam relutantes em aceitar a entrada da croácia no espaço schengen? é tempo de dar o passo final já em dezembro. sem hesitações! a croácia deve entrar no espaço schengen em janeiro de 2023, no dia em que passa a integrar a zona euro. there are no legitimate excuses to delay this decision. giving croatians, and also bulgarians and romanians, full access to the schengen area and to the right of free movement is an imperative. the times we live in demand that we act, demand action. with a war on our borders, we must show our commitment to our value of unity, our european value of solidarity. to others who seek discord and division, we must show our strength and our unity. croatian schengen brings us together, makes us stronger, protects our external borders and also respects fundamental rights. this decision will also have a strong impact and will send a clear signal to the western balkan countries about their future european aspirations. as the youngest eu member state, croatia should serve as an inspiration for other countries in the region. it shows that it is possible for any aspiring new member state to be fully integrated into our european family. and from the parliament we say, i want to say:dobrodošli u schengen.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i suggest that we keep things simple tonight. croatia is ready. croatia is ready to join schengen. croatia has done everything that was needed to become part of this great area of freedom, security and justice. back in 2019, the commission concluded that croatia meets all conditions to apply the schengen acquis and to enjoy the benefits of the biggest obstacle—free, control—free area, which is schengen. we also then stressed at the time the importance for croatia to continue working consistently to implement all ongoing actions, in particular external border-management requirements. to monitor and to verify the implementation of those actions, we organised a targeted verification visit in november 2020, and since then croatia continued to make tremendous progress and now is ready to join schengen, as the council of ministers recognised last year in december, and as the civil liberties committee of this house voted with an overwhelming majority recently – last month. what will happen when croatia joins? and when will that happen? croatia will join the largest area of borderless travel in the world. the people of croatia will enjoy to the full the possibility to travel within the schengen area with no internal border checks as 420 million europeans already do. croatia has delivered on external border management. croatia has delivered on returns and on visa policy, but also on police cooperation against the trafficking of firearms and by updating information systems. once croatia joins, it will have access to the schengen information system, allowing information exchange to fight crime, to fight against terrorism, and to monitor migration efficiently. croatia has also made a lot of efforts on data protection and fundamental rights. it was the first member state to set up an independent monitoring mechanism of fundamental rights, something that we proposed to all member states within our proposal for a new eu package for migration and asylum. and we very much welcome croatia’s extension of the monitoring mechanism announced last week. and this was not an extension for yet another year, but for automatic renewal every 18 months until the screening regulation is adopted and implemented at the european union level. and we do welcome the improvements to the mechanism: by taking up all the recommendations of the advisory board, including the possibility of unannounced visits to the green border, this mechanism that croatia accepted and is now implementing could become a model, an example for all member states, because we can only protect eu security and the eu border whilst we are able to uphold the eu values that bind us together. on this difficult journey to schengen, croatia did not travel alone. every step of the way, the commission and our member states were there to support. to boost border controls we supported croatia through the internal security fund and the emergency assistance. after evaluations and on—site visits, based on the commission proposal the council issued nearly 300 recommendations, and croatia has carried out all these recommendations! so let these be the fundamentals of confidence and trust of member states and of eu citizens – of all of us. a trust in the belief that croatia is ready, that we can count on our croatian friends to protect people, to protect the border, and to protect european values. honourable members, together with my colleague, vice-president šuica, we call on all of you tomorrow to vote resoundingly in favour of this report, and by your vote to send a strong message to the council that this is now the time to welcome croatia to schengen. this is now the time to enlarge the schengen area, and not only to croatia, but also to romania and bulgaria, who have also met the conditions for full schengen membership already since 2011 and who recently also volunteered: they agreed on a voluntary basis to a new fact—finding mission precisely to reassure member states that both countries, romania and bulgaria, are still applying the schengen acquis. and they passed this self—chosen test with flying colours. honourable members, croatia, romania and bulgaria have taken massive strides and they have won our trust, and the schengen they will join will be a stronger schengen compared to 2011, when this process started. a schengen that was able to survive big, huge existential threats: the refugee crisis; terrorist attacks; the covid pandemic. a schengen that remains the jewel in europe’s crown. a stronger schengen also due to the new rules for governance which have been included in the new schengen border codes – one will be in place soon, we hope. and thanks also to the best border—management technology – the best in the world – that we are now implementing. all but one of the member states are entitled to join the schengen area once they fulfil the conditions. it is their right. it is their right to be members of this schengen borderless area. and the longer we delay, the more we risk distancing not governments, but citizens from the european project. croatia, romania, bulgaria have done what it takes. the european union must now also do what it takes and simply say just one word: welcome.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, for us croatian meps here in the european parliament, this is probably the most important decision of this mandate. three decades of hard-won independence, on the threshold of the tenth anniversary of our membership of the european union. by joining schengen, but also by introducing the euro as the official currency in croatia, we are completing croatia's return to europe and in a way becoming a member of the most elite civilization club. as one of only fifteen countries that are simultaneously a member of the european union, nato, the eurozone and schengen. in a time of war on the european continent, this, along with equality, along with freedom of movement and a great opportunity for development, brings us additional security. and that, as a nation, is something to be proud of. croatia has proven that it can protect its borders, european borders, in accordance with the highest european standards. it is therefore important that this report leaves no open questions about croatia's readiness. and now it's up to the council to finalize this decision. i thank paul, i thank all the colleagues who were involved, i thank the commission for everything that was done here in brussels, but especially the croatian police and the croatian government who are most responsible for this success.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, your honour! in the socialist and democratic group we support croatia's accession to the schengen area. schengen is one of the union's key achievements and one of its most tangible benefits for citizens. schengen is primarily for people. croatia has done its homework and deserves to be in schengen. as any country will do when it meets the criteria. but croatia also has to face a human rights black mark on its southern border, because accession to the schengen countries does not exempt it from respecting the commitments and agreed rules. on the contrary, croatia will have to prove and show by its actions every day that it respects international law and european law. and like all countries, we will, of course, look at it in parliament. the council has already taken a decision on the matter, and the commissioner has said that the other countries, as well as croatia, are now in the waiting room to open the door to schengen. so welcome to croatia, welcome to croatia!
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr commissioner schinas, mr ambassador andrassy, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleagues and all those who are here with us to celebrate croatia's entry into the schengen area. the most deserving of tonight's celebration is here and our rapporteur mr. rangel, i congratulate for all the dedication he has done to emphasize the importance and all that the croatian police, the croatian government in the past period has done once again to show that croatia is the best student of all countries, who have tried, and after a hard and painstaking effort achieved, to get this satisfactory score for entry into schengen. croatia is a country that has defended its territory without any help, croatia is a country that helps the western balkans, croatia is a country that is dragging bosnia and herzegovina forward and croatia is a country that will justify all your expectations and i thank all my colleagues, from the left to the right of this house, whom i will support tomorrow en masse and show that croatia should celebrate its entry into the eurozone and the schengen area in december. once again, congratulations and thank you and good luck.
mr president, it is difficult to understand or convey to someone who has not had to wait in line at the borders for security checks or passport controls that there are actually two categories of european citizens. those whose countries are in schengen and those whose countries are not. it is also difficult to explain to the citizens of croatia that they do not have the same rights, even though we have met all the necessary conditions. by voting on this report, i.e. by supporting croatia's entry into schengen, the citizens of croatia and the pro-european majority will benefit first and foremost, but also the eurosceptic minority who will lose one argument. i want to thank everyone who has contributed, and above all the croatian colleagues who have been involved within their political clubs, because this is a matter of national interest and a really big deal for croatian citizens.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i have never been happier and more proud of this podium and i doubt i ever will be. i am happy and proud that my croatia is at the doorstep of schengen, and that my istria, of course, will be a true european region without borders from 1 january 2023. because it's clear that we're finally becoming part of the most sophisticated, elite club. and it is absolutely deserved for all croatian citizens, for the croatian economy. and finally, there are fewer border queues for our carriers, workers, tourists, carriers and so on. it actually reduces the losses that are generated by these waiting. tomorrow is a great day for croatia, but also for a strong, strong, united europe. so vote the right way, for croatia, for schengen, for europe, for a europe without borders. and thank you to all who have helped us along the way, and i'm sure the future will confirm that all those who will vote for tomorrow were on the right side.
mr president, less than ten years after joining the european union, croatia is on the threshold of full european integration. the entry into the schengen area for croatia and its citizens represents the realisation of the strategic interest of full membership of europe and the west. the multiannual efforts made by the croatian government have resulted in the fulfilment of the technical criteria for entry into the schengen area, which was also established by the council last year. the commission has also received a request from the croatian authorities to provide further information on the implementation of the measures taken by croatia in the area of border management. those who claim otherwise are only misleading the public for their own petty political interests. it is important that the european parliament should support croatia's entry into schengen by a large majority. and so i thank the rapporteur for the enormous effort he has put into making that happen. in conclusion, i would point out that joining the schengen area is in the interest of both croatia and the european union as a whole.
mr president, the european union, as one of the most attractive destinations for foreign direct investment, is open to foreign capital. however, this openness is not and should not be unconditional. the russian authorities have also provided information on the activities of the 'donetsk people's republic' in the 'donetsk people's republic' and 'donetsk people's republic'. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the company in question. the importance of the company in question for the croatian economy is evident from the fact that it employs more than 45 thousand people and manages important agricultural land. the commission notes that the acquisition of the assets of the bank was carried out without the knowledge of the competent authorities. i therefore invite the commission to consider further mechanisms to ensure that systemically important companies are protected from suspicious and uncontrolled takeovers.
the next item is the report by mr evin incir, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on racial justice, non-discrimination and action against racism in the eu (2022/2005 (ini)) (a9-0254/2022).
thank you very much for your introductory speech, rapporteur. i now warmly welcome our commissioner, helena dalli.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the report that we discuss today is an important initiative of the european parliament. i thank you for acknowledging the work of the european commission in tackling racism and for highlighting the importance of continuing our concerted efforts and mainstreaming our work in legislation, policy-making, funding and practice. discrimination on the grounds of racial or ethnic origin is prohibited in the european union. the european commission is acting to address the high rates of experiences of racism at 29% in access to work, 23% in access to housing, 12% in access to education, and 22% in access to goods and services, and the worrying incidences of racist harassment at 24% and racist violence at 3% over a 12-month period. this severely affects racialised communities and ethnic minorities across our union. this is why our work programme for 2023 states that the commission will continue its work to ensure effective protection against discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin. this work is to be seen in the context of the implementation of the eu anti-racism action plan presented two years ago. this action plan takes a horizontal approach covering all different forms of racism and sets out measures that cover a comprehensive range of policy areas. the acknowledgement of the structural dimension of racism and the significance of intersectionality is at the base of the action plan. in this context, the eu anti-racism action plan emphasises the importance of mainstreaming the fight against racism into all eu policies. the commission’s task force on equality plays a key role in this respect. the european union has a strong legal acquis and mandate to fight racial and ethnic discrimination, with legislation covering all areas of life and addressing hate speech and hate crime. last year, the report on the application of the racial equality directive concluded that member states must provide greater attention to the implementation of the directive in relation to protection against victimisation and the application of effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions. in this respect, we are preparing a proposal for a law strengthening equality bodies that will be presented before the end of this year. amongst others, the new standards will cover the equality bodies’ mandate, their powers, independence and their resources, importantly. racist and xenophobic hate crime and hate speech are prohibited, as you know, under union law. the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia obliges member states to criminalise public incitement to violence or hatred based on race, colour, religion, descent, or national or ethnic origin, and to ensure criminalisation of the racist and xenophobic bias motivation when committing a crime. extensive efforts have been made to ensure enforcement of legislation through targeted support to member states and their law enforcement agencies. the commission takes the proper transposition and implementation of this legislation, of course, seriously, through dialogue with member states and where needed by initiating infringement proceedings. in december 2021, the commission continued pushing for legislative progress and proposed to extend the current list of eu crimes to hate speech and hate crime. the eu is deeply concerned with the rising rates of this form of crime. yet legislation is, of course, only part of the answer and policy efforts need to complement it. education is key for addressing racism. the commission is committed to supporting member states in identifying good practices, lessons learned and success factors in building inclusive and equitable quality education. at its last two meetings this year, the working group on equality and values in education and training within the european education area, consisting of experts appointed by eu member states, discussed different ways to address discrimination in and through education and training, including stereotypes, prejudice and hate speech. the erasmus+ programme already supports projects to raise awareness among young europeans of the importance of respecting each other in our diversity. since 2014, more than 2 800 projects, supported by the programme across europe, have dealt directly with the fight against racism. the eu anti-racism action plan also foresees strengthened participation of civil society organisations working with racialised groups. to this end, the commission set up a permanent forum of anti-racism civil society organisations to participate in the consultative processes and support the commission in the implementation of the action plan. besides, the new commission coordinator for anti-racism also interacts with many other stakeholders like member states, the european parliament and academia to strengthen policy responses in the field of anti-racism. supplementing this work, the european commission has adopted two specific approaches addressing the challenges faced by roma and jewish people. the adoption of the eu roma strategic framework in 2020 and the unanimous adoption of the council recommendation on roma equality, inclusion and participation in 2021 marked important milestones in the fight against antigypsyism. they strongly encourage member states to increase their efforts to combat antigypsyism. the commission is planning to issue a first report assessing the national strategies for roma equality, inclusion and participation this year. in addition, with anti-semitism worryingly on the rise, the commission adopted the first ever eu strategy on combating anti-semitism and fostering jewish life, in october of last year. we are working to prevent all forms of anti-semitism and combat violent extremism and terrorism targeting jews and to foster a european society aware of jewish life, culture and history, past and present and where jews feel safe. member states are invited to develop national action plans against racism and racial discrimination by the end of this year addressing their specific domestic realities while linking to the european mainstream strategies and action plans. to date, 16 member states either have a stand-alone action plan or have integrated measures on combating racism as an integral part of more general national human rights action plans or other instruments and strategies. a report on the implementation of the national action plans against racism is due by the end of next year. equality data disaggregated by racial or ethnic origin are of great importance, of course, as we all know, and this in building effective policies to tackle discrimination. in this context, the subgroup on equality data are made up of representatives from eu member states and norway also, the european commission, eurostat and fra help member states improve the collection and the use of equality data. it has produced key policy documents to step-up efforts such as the non-binding guidelines on improving the collection and use of ethnic and racial equality data presented at the roundtable on equality data held earlier this year. as to the commission personnel policy, last year data on the diversity of the commission staff was for the first time collected via a dedicated, voluntary and anonymous diversity and inclusion survey. its results are paving the way for evidence-based internal policies and measures under the human resources strategy. a dedicated diversity and inclusion office has been created to oversee the development and implementation of all relevant actions and human resources. and, finally, the citizens, equality, rights and values programme now has a budget of eur 1.5 billion, more than double than in the previous cycle. it specifically focuses on the protection and promotion of union values by providing support to civil society organisations active in this field. racism and discrimination have no place in our union of equality. we can and we must put an end to this scourge through joint and comprehensive action across the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. – a uachtaráin, madam commissioner, we must listen to those affected and recognise that racism, xenophobia and discrimination are still prevalent in the eu across all member states. research from the european union fundamental rights agency has shown that racism comes in various forms, and unfortunately, harassment and discrimination remain a harsh reality in the daily lives of ethnic minorities and marginalised groups across europe. the eu has taken action through its anti-racism action plan, and many sports organisations, including my own, the gaa in ireland, have introduced programmes such as show racism the red card. it is vital we do not lose momentum in the fight against racism. the eu needs to develop a comprehensive approach to tackle all forms of racism and discrimination and to ensure that measures to combat racism are implemented effectively. european values and freedoms should pertain to all people of every race and ethnic group. our motto has always to be ‘equality, not superiority’. let’s show racism the red card.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner dalli, this debate on racial justice and the european strategy and plan against all forms of discrimination and racism is very well put, as is the report by our colleague mrs evin incir. you have said that racism has no place in europe and there is a european plan against racism and discrimination 2020-2025 which includes an anti-racism coordinator; so far it shows the worrying balance that only twelve member states have submitted their plans and we have a very considerable number that have not yet shown that commitment. the other day we were discussing in the european parliament the growth of the far right and one of its most distinctive features: hate speech leading to hate crime. i would therefore like to point out that, in addition to investing the funds needed to support this plan, it is essential that the commitment to include hate crime in the list of european crimes on the legal basis of article 83 is fulfilled. hate crime: a european crime incorporated into the criminal code of all member states.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, racism is forbidden in europe, but it exists. that's why we're here. and we don't know if the states are doing all they can. we don't think he did. social hatred is directed at people who are part of groups that are vulnerable because of their haters and defined primarily by their haters. they strip them of their individuality and differentiate them by race, language, ethnic background, ideology, whatever. real people are being attacked on the basis of prejudice. and those who build the enemy based on intolerance and prejudice see themselves as victims. that's how they justify and update the excuse to keep hating. this is very important in this house because we have a responsibility for these speeches. they justify the dehumanization of what they do not like and think that they are exercising self-defense, but it is false: they are prisoners of those prejudices. it is therefore not only legislation that can tackle this behaviour, but legislation is also needed and action by the states is needed. as mr aguilar has said, only 12 member states have submitted plans. and the horizontal anti-discrimination directive has been blocked in the council since 2008, ladies and gentlemen. the decision to expand hate crimes is a weighty one and remains blocked. and the czech republic is not responding.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. today we are making history. for the first time in this parliament we are putting such a strong emphasis on the fight against structural racism and discrimination against minorities. the report calls for the root causes of structural racism and discrimination to be tackled. the fight against racism must finally be tackled in the eu. we are setting an important milestone. i have seen with my own eyes in the forests of lviv, ukraine, how racism and discrimination are starving people. i could not believe that people - including a large number of children - live in europe under these conditions with a life expectancy of about 40 years. the trips to the ghettos of tinca in romania or kustendil in bulgaria, where massive anti-gypsyism makes citizens second-class citizens, have shaped me a lot. but lviv was hard to describe. this level of dehumanization by racism is a cruel reality, made worse by war. we, the european parliament, must not tolerate any longer the disgrace of dehumanization. it's the only way to preserve our humanity. and that's what we're marking today.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, racism and anti-semitism are unacceptable. any manifestation of such behaviour must be punished with the utmost severity. french republican universalism and the values of the union require that all individuals be treated equally, regardless of their ethnic origin and skin colour. the equality of men and women is also a fundamental principle which must be defended without weakness. all forms of discrimination and violence against women must be combated and suppressed. barbaric practices such as forced marriage and female genital mutilation must be eradicated and not tolerated under the pretext of respect for traditions or religion. the incir report has the merit of recalling these important principles. it's a pity he's wasting his time indulging in the excesses of wokism. there's nothing missing. he denounces, among other things, 'structural and institutionalised racism', 'intersectional discrimination', 'police violence against racialized groups', 'negative stereotypes of racial connotations in the media' and even 'structural prejudices in the justice system', which he summarises in the shock formula of 'racial justice'. i denounce these vile accusations which discredit the member states of the union and particularly my country, france. no, ladies and gentlemen, france is not a racist state. justice fully respects the principle of equality. as for the police, i would remind you that they work under his control and that every personal fault of a policeman is punished by criminal law. let us be proud of our civilization. let's face it without disfiguring it.
for the left group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. racism and discrimination are structural in our societies, not exceptional. some examples of this are migration and refugee policy. refugees and migrants are made scapegoats and, in the narrative of the far right, the root of all evil. non-white people are left at sea without being allowed to come ashore and seek refuge in europe. it's devastating to me. it costs lives and it's racism. we also have a discriminatory labour market where people of colour are exploited. residence permits and family reunification are tied to your employment and allow employers to exploit racialized people across europe. it's called racism. we have police brutality, and we have racial profiling. i'm sure you've all seen it. it's called racism. racialized women are exploited in the prostitution markets across europe, and no one seems to think it's a problem that these are the women to be bought by white men. it's called racism. the right together with the extreme right for a policy that is depleting the working class areas in my country, sweden. housing, schools, education - everything is being taken down when it really needs to be upgraded. when social problems arise, the far right blames people's culture and people's ethnicity and people's immigrant background. they make it black or white. it's also a form of racism. the anti-racist struggle for us on the left is also to build an equal society. we don't pit people against each other. we're building community. we're betting on all of them. and the member states and the eu must do more. politics is supposed to counteract hate and intimidation. policies must put an end to structural discrimination and policies must build together. that's our job.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens of the european union. racism and discrimination are in a causal relationship with illegal immigration. when an illegal immigrant enters your country, violating all the regulations of that country and agrees to work for twice the wages of a citizen and a native of the european union. how will that person feel who lost his job because of someone who, disrespecting and violating all the regulations of that country, entered it. if someone broke into your house and took something of yours, of course, any normal person would not respect that. it's the same situation here. we have to stop illegal immigration and we won't have problems with racism and things like that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the european commission and hungary are coming together. however, one thing makes me even happier, and that is that hungary is an extremely sovereign state and that in its decisions in the council it safeguards not only its sovereignty but also the sovereignty of other members of the european union. it also oversees the budget of the european union. the final decisions and the independent vote in the european council have also saved the european union's citizens 20 billion euros, and for that i am grateful to them. it is good to see that a state can defend itself and that is why it is necessary to maintain forever that all important decisions in the european council must be taken unanimously. otherwise we are entering a soviet union that has disintegrated, and the european union will disintegrate if we strip every country of its right to vote on matters of importance.
it is estimated that one in ten adults in the european union suffers from diabetes and that the costs associated with treatment account for nine per cent of total healthcare costs. adding to the concern, as many as half of those who do have the disease do not have the diagnosis that is essential for proper treatment. in this context, i welcome the european commission's initiative 'healthy together to fight non-communicable diseases'. but to fight diabetes, we need an even more ambitious framework. i therefore call for a european diabetes plan with clearly defined objectives, regulatory measures, indicators and strong funding, along the lines of the european cancer plan. this is the only way for europe to beat diabetes, a disease that affects 170 000 children in the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's external borders. i am therefore proud that as rapporteur for the european parliament i am already working on this file which will enable the exchange and access to health data both for direct treatment and for research and development of new forms of treatment for this serious disease.
on behalf of the renew group. – president, dear commissioner, yet another piece of well-crafted, much needed and warmly welcomed legislation protecting europe’s critical infrastructure is key in making europe safe and prosperous. thank you, dear rapporteur. it’s just like the nis 2, like you mentioned, dear commissioner, and the foreign direct investment screening, the democracy action plan, but also the economic coercion instrument. but what do these files have in common? against whom are we protecting ourselves? let’s be clear: the reality is we are protecting ourselves against a small number of three countries who have something in common, namely an offensive intellectual property theft programme directed against us. the second thing is they want to thwart the liberal world order. and thirdly, last but not least, they are willing and able to do so in our own backyard, here, extraterritorially. that’s the problem. it’s russia, iran and china; let’s name these three. we might believe we live in peace with the world, but yet they declared a conflict against us. and yet we formulate generic responses. but, dear commissioner, country-specific problems require country-specific legislation against these three nations. that’s what we’d like to see in future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, citizens of the european union are living in a worse and more precarious situation than a few years ago. the eu leadership wants to convince us that this is solely due to the covid-19 pandemic and the war between russia and ukraine. but the facts are that coronaviruses have always been with us and will always be with us. they will mutate forever, just as they have mutated before. the problem is our response to the covid-19 pandemic that has claimed many lives. the main one is the misuse and disastrous use of respirators which is responsible for the death of millions of people who refused to give up. the war in ukraine, who cut off the supply of cheap energy to european citizens than the leadership of the european union. we alone. you must realize that war is human nature and that there will be war as long as there are two humans on the planet. the assumption that wars will disappear because we have gathered in the european union is very naive and we should leave them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when i presented last year the results of the negotiations on this year's budget, it was impossible to foresee how dramatically different the situation on the european continent would be, how the russian aggression in ukraine would turn a new chapter and present a new test, not only for our union but for the whole of european civilisation. one of the key aspects we can work on in such a situation is budgeting. that is why we need a strong european budget as the main tool for our response to the growing european priorities. we have a clear, human, moral duty to help ukraine and to help the ukrainian people in their struggle for freedom. we also need to strengthen our energy independence through the process of green transition, but we also need to ensure, in a smart way, sufficient funding for our entrepreneurs, researchers and students. all this amounts to over 186 billion euros in this budget, and i congratulate the rapporteurs who led the negotiations.
the process of enlargement of the european union is stalled due to the lack of political will in some eu member states. the main reason is that some candidate countries, like serbia, have taken some big steps backwards in european terms. the renewed tensions between serbia and kosovo, serbia's non-compliance with the union's sanctions against russia, the mass release of migrants to the eu indicate that serbia is the main factor of instability in the region of south-east europe. the union must therefore make greater use of its own economic and political instruments to sanction serbia if it continues to behave contrary to european values. the example of montenegro is linked to this, which is destabilised by those political forces that want to bring it back under the auspices of serbia and russia. we must strongly oppose this, to keep montenegro in the western sphere of influence, which is currently in great danger. in conclusion, we welcome the decision of the high representative for bosnia and herzegovina, mr schmidt, to prevent the expulsion of the legitimate representatives of the croatian people from the executive. i hope that after the formation of the new government, the final part of the electoral reform will be approached in order to prevent the usurpation of the croatian seat in the presidency of bih by extremist bosnian politicians, which is currently the case.
mr. chairman, at a time of brutal war on the european continent, europe is providing a safe haven for millions of ukrainian refugees from russian destruction and shelling and is once again demonstrating our common humanity. at the same time, we are witnessing a drastic and perfidious increase in illegal border crossings of almost 300,000 this year, especially along the so-called western balkans route. reception centres across europe are full, and the external borders are again under pressure from seasonal migration and thousands and thousands of unknown people who, under cover of night, without official identification documents and outside the border crossings, are trying to illegally cross our european borders. serbia is also contributing to this by rewardsing countries that do not recognise kosovo and thus increasing pressure by ruthlessly abusing the visa regime. we urgently need a common, systematic european solution, starting with effective and strict protection of external borders and the decisive instrumentalisation of migrants in geopolitical games that must not exist. all of this also shows that we need an even stronger schengen, not its undermining at these sensitive geopolitical moments. clearly, with croatia included, which has proven that it can effectively protect the european border and thus provide additional security for all member states and all european citizens.
mr president, we are witnessing the fact that migrants frequently abuse their right to asylum in order to circumvent the regular procedure and thus claim the territory of the european union. the european union should also support the development of a european asylum system, which is based on the principle of mutual recognition of asylum seekers and refugees. the european union cannot and should not accept anyone who wants to come to the eu just because the quality of life in europe is better than in their country of origin. in these circumstances, it is crucial to stop illegal migration and strengthen the protection of the schengen area. in this connection, i would like to commend the croatian police who, in accordance with european and international law, are guarding the longest land border of the european union. croatia has met the strictest criteria and its entry into schengen is a guarantee of the protection of the eu's external borders and an effective fight against illegal migration. i therefore call on the council to take a political decision in december on croatia's accession to the schengen area. she deserved it!
in writing. for the socialists, a european law against gender-based violence is indispensable, a homogeneous european legislation that will make it possible to make progress in the eradication of the scourge that is gender-based violence, ranging from the prevention and protection of women to the punishment of the aggressors. it is essential to have a common definition and data on violence against women, so that it can be measured and combated. equality and the fight against gender-based violence is a commitment that is put into practice with will, policies and budgets.
in writing. we are celebrating the day for the elimination of violence against women on friday. violence against women and girls continues to occur systematically on a shockingly large scale. it is a serious violation of human rights and it must be stopped. women and girls are subject to physical, sexual, emotional, economic, digital and structural violence. we have a long journey to end violence against women. but there are solutions. it goes without saying that every eu country must ratify the istanbul treaty without delay and the eu must demand that its member states do so. at eu level, only 21 member states have ratified the treaty. we in parliament have repeatedly called for the eu to join the istanbul agreement in full, and now is the time for that to happen. the istanbul convention defines violence against women broadly. it defines violence against women as a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination against women and includes all acts of gender-based violence that cause or threaten to cause physical, sexual, mental or economic harm or suffering to women, including the threat, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty by such acts, whether in public or in private life. we also need a strong directive on violence against women in the union. the commission has put forward its proposal for a directive and i expect a strong position from parliament, which we will defend in future negotiations with the member states. this directive is one of the most important legislative projects to be completed before the end of the parliamentary term and it must also include the broad definition of violence against women under the istanbul convention.
in writing. for the socialists, a european law against gender-based violence is indispensable, a homogeneous european legislation that will make it possible to make progress in the eradication of the scourge that is gender-based violence, ranging from the prevention and protection of women to the punishment of the aggressors. it is essential to have a common definition and data on violence against women, so that it can be measured and combated. equality and the fight against gender-based violence is a commitment that is put into practice with will, policies and budgets.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, i am pleased to be here today and to be working with this parliament and with the commission towards finding a structural solution to help the brave people of ukraine in 2023. delivering financial support to ukraine in 2022 has proven an exercise more difficult than originally foreseen. with the eu budget lacking the resources to provide the full guarantees for the loans to ukraine, we required national guarantees, and this presented operational and financial drawbacks. i am happy that, with this package, the eu shows it is united and strongly committed to supporting ukraine. so today, you will be discussing the method to offer ukraine the remaining eur 3 billion from 2022 and a further eur 15 billion in loans for 2023. these loans will have a grace period of ten years, and the member states will cover the interest costs. this makes the loans highly concessional and will not put any burden on ukraine. ukraine will therefore be able to concentrate on fighting off the invader, as well as on repairing its energy and other crucial infrastructure that the invader has been destroying on purpose, with the sole objective of inflicting further hardships on the people of ukraine as winter approaches. i can only imagine that this parliament would have liked more time to discuss, negotiate and amend the two legislative files for which you are co-legislators, and also to scrutinise further the amendment to the multiannual financial framework, for which the council is requesting your consent. let me reassure you in the council we felt the same, but i trust that the parliament will rise to the challenge. i hope that the votes you will be casting tomorrow on the package will allow us to proceed with a speedy delivery of support to ukraine. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, i would like to start this debate by reaffirming the eu’s solidarity with ukraine. while russia continues its brutal war, killing ukraine’s citizens and destroying infrastructure, the eu stands with ukraine as long as it takes. the eu remains steadfast in its support for ukraine’s independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity and its inherent right of self-defence against russia’s aggression, as enshrined in the un charter. russia must stop its illegal war of aggression, which has taken a heavy human toll and deeply damaged ukraine’s society and economic potential. the destruction of physical capital and infrastructure is immense. by the end of may, it is estimated to have cost reconstruction and recovery costs of usd 349 billion; almost 14 million people have been forced to leave their homes. it is an extremely challenging context. ukraine’s funding needs will continue to be acute in 2023. the eu, its member states and the european financial institutions under the team europe approach are fulfilling their promise to provide sizeable support to ukraine. in total, almost eur 20 billion have been mobilised in 2022, in addition to military assistance. and i would like to thank the european parliament for its unwavering support for ukraine and its continuous cooperation. this includes the parliament’s support under the urgency procedure for the legislative proposal made by the commission. yesterday we disbursed another eur 2.5 billion of exceptional macro-financial assistance to ukraine. this brings the union’s macro-financial assistance to ukraine since the beginning of the war to eur 6.7 billion: emergency mfa of eur 1.2 billion disbursed in march, exceptional mfa of eur 1 billion disbursed in august and an exceptional mfa of eur 4.5 billion disbursed in october and november. we expect to disburse another eur 500 million of exceptional mfa to ukraine in december, once the authorities have shown that they have met the conditionality agreed in the related memorandum of understanding. so far there has been satisfactory progress with implementation and we are confident that the ukrainian authorities will meet their commitments. based on the enhanced reporting requirements linked to the exceptional mfa designed to ensure the transparency and efficiency of the use of funds, ukraine has reported that the funds have been used to repay maturing domestic liabilities. in that sense, the union’s support has effectively contributed to limit ukraine’s recourse monetary financing of its government. that way, the union’s mfa has achieved its goal of maintaining macro-financial stability and preserving the stock of official international reserves of ukraine, which stabilised at above usd 25 billion since september. estimates of ukraine’s funding gap in 2023 are exceptionally uncertain, ranging from eur 3 to 4 billion per month, notably depending on the length of the war and the inflicted damage. to help ukraine cover its sizable funding gap in 2023, on 9 november the commission presented a proposal for a new instrument: macro-financial assistance plus. it aims to channel up to eur 18 billion in highly concessional loans to ukraine in 2023 in a predictable, continuous, orderly and timely manner. such an unprecedented amount will allow ukraine to ensure macroeconomic stability and restore critical infrastructure destroyed by russia. to ensure maximum concessionality, the loans provided under the mfa+ instrument should have long maturities and there will be no repayment of principal before 2033. to secure the funds for the loans, the commission proposes to borrow on capital markets using the diversified funding strategy via a targeted amendment of the financial regulation and this would enable the commission to use the full portfolio of funding instruments to secure market funding on the most advantageous terms. to guarantee this borrowing for ukraine, the commission proposes to use the headroom of the 2021-2027 eu budget in a targeted manner for ukraine, limited in time, and this will be done via a targeted amendment of the mff regulation. the headroom is the difference between the own reserve ceilings – so the maximum amount of resources that the commission can ask member states to contribute in a given year – and the funds that it actually needs to cover the expenses envisioned in the budget. the eu will also cover the interest—rate costs of ukraine to be financed by voluntary contributions from member states in the form of external assigned revenue, and the scale of the required interest payments under the proposed mfa+ funding will depend on the rate at which the commission raises the funds on the capital markets within its diversified funding strategy. current market extrapolations point to estimated interest—rate costs of less than eur 600 million per year. these costs will only come into effect from 2024 onwards because there will be no interest payments related to these funds in 2023. allocation of the costs across member states will be done on the basis of the gni key. financial support for ukraine in 2023 will entail conditionality to be negotiated with ukraine in a memorandum of understanding. obviously, implementing a structural reform agenda in a country at war is not an easy task and it puts a premium on relevance and feasibility. this conditionality will feature reforms to further enhance the rule of law, good governance, anti-fraud and anti-corruption measures. and this is essential for the country’s future reconstruction and for supporting ukraine on its path to eu accession, as well as ensuring the financial interests of the union. the commission intends to negotiate the memorandum of understanding without delay once the mfa+ instrument is legally in place, and we are confident that this will allow us a swift disbursement to be made in january 2023. it is important that the emergency financial assistance for ukraine from all other international partners, both bilateral and multilateral, should continue in 2023 as it was in 2022. the commission is in regular contact with the international financial institutions and also in the g7 framework to ensure cooperation and coordination. but honourable members, macro—financial assistance is only one element of the union’s support for ukraine. since the beginning of the russian invasion, the overall team europe assistance pledged to ukraine amounts close to eur 20 billion. this combines the support enabled by the european union budget. in addition to the financial assistance, the union has also made military equipment available through the european peace facility, plus over eur 100 million of csdp support for training missions, as well as in-kind assistance under the union’s civil protection mechanism. on humanitarian assistance, the eu, together with its member states, have mobilised more than eur 1.5 billion, of which about eur 500 million comes from the eu budget. the eu’s comprehensive humanitarian and civil—protection assistance is far from being a short term deal. the eu is with ukraine for the long haul. honourable members, once again, i would like to thank the european parliament for the urgency and priority that it has given to this file. it is vital for our ukrainian friends that this entire package goes through quickly. it is also vital for europe’s credibility as a whole.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the macroeconomic aid debate is really two-sided. the first level is, of course, the necessary assistance to ukraine in maintaining macroeconomic stability, in maintaining the functioning of the state in all its functions. this is not money to rebuild ukraine. it's money to maintain the stability of the state. it's important that we emphasize this, because the expectations are very high. according to the calculations, the proposal we have on the table today is to provide 1.5 billion euros in loans every month, for the whole year 2023, starting in january. the total is 18 billion euros. this required changes in terms of legislative issues. and this is the other dimension. we are in a very different situation in the european union. there's been a breakthrough in the reconstruction fund situation. there's a consent to borrow on the capital market. the fact that the fund was successfully raised opens the way for this type of activity as well. it's important to remember that, because this is a very different way the european union works. and it is important for us as a parliament to agree, as a matter of urgency, to legislative changes to facilitate this type of activity in the capital markets. it's a necessary thing. but it is also an indication of what the european budget will do in the future.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must do everything possible to support ukraine and its citizens. we owe it to them and to ourselves in the interests of our common values and standards. although i have not the slightest doubt about the allocation of these funds, i would nevertheless like to make a plea for proper monitoring of the effective use of these funds. the next step, of course, is to mobilize the necessary funds for reconstruction. i think that the first thing to be looked at here is the estimated 80 billion of russian funds currently blocked. if the russian elite is not able to take responsibility for what is being done, then we must help them in a powerful way. i am aware that this can and will be a legally complex operation, but i trust that the commission will do what is necessary to analyse it thoroughly and also to implement it.
madam president, i would like to begin by calling once again for a ceasefire and peace in ukraine. my interest is that of the croatian citizens and i'm interested in where this aid ends up going to the zelenski government. before this war, a lot of money went there, but according to the court of auditors, we don't know exactly what it was spent on. this year, 2022, the west has given 90 to 100 billion dollars in aid to ukraine, which is one to two years of the military budget of the russian state. despite the great help, the situation in ukraine is very bad and getting worse. about 50% of the energy infrastructure has been destroyed, including many power plants. according to the who, another 2-3 million people will leave ukraine because of the severe cold coming. 60% of ukraine's 2022 budget comes from foreign donations. what can the people of ukraine hope for in such a situation? it's time for ukraine to start talking peace, and even the pentagon called them to it a few days ago. and on top of all this, we now have this proposal to charge our citizens in the international market for another 18 billion euros, or one and a half billion a month, to patch up ukraine's budget. how can we explain this to our croatian citizens, for example, when croatia, hit by two earthquakes, has not rebuilt even three houses for its citizens, who are also suffering from inflation?
mr. chairman, after more than a year since the taliban's return to power, it is clear that the lives of ordinary afghans have deteriorated dramatically, as was to be expected. militant islamists rule the country through violence and prohibitions and persecution of minorities, especially hazaras and christians. the taliban regime is massively violating human rights, especially women's rights. young girls are forbidden from secondary education. it should be said openly that the current situation in afghanistan represents a catastrophic military and geopolitical defeat for the west. in the period after 2001, nato relied mostly on completely incompetent and corrupt domestic personnel, which necessarily led to the rapid collapse of the government with the withdrawal of allied forces. today, afghanistan is a source of instability, a starting point for illegal migration to europe, which is a huge security problem. the influence of china and russia in central asia is growing, here in the west it is weakening. the european union must define more clearly its own priorities in this part of the world and engage more concretely in building alliances with countries with which it shares a common interest. otherwise, he'll remain the foreign policy midget he is today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the digital transformation of our society and economy? - i know. digitizing the data? - i certainly do. but we must not forget the impact of technology on man. the human being must always be at the centre of all programmes, and the continuing education of people is a priority in the years ahead. unfortunately, we are all aware that the excessive use of digital devices and digital addiction are part of our daily lives, especially unfortunately among young people. that is why, commissioner breton, i call on the commission to strengthen and to help financially and to empower educational programmes, especially for young people, so that they can make the right and healthy use of the opportunities that lie ahead of us and that must never be spared. digitalization and digital transformation, in fact, will only be successful and meaningful if that digitalization, that technology, is used by healthy and happy people, both at work and at home.
what have the european institutions done for young people in particular and what are the tangible long-term results of the year? i have no answer to that question, and i have not heard it from the commission either. the text before us is relatively good, but the fact remains that the results will not be what we had hoped. what has disappointed me most is the fact that a large proportion of europeans still do not know that this year is the year of youth, and this speaks volumes about the way in which activities are promoted and implemented, which, unfortunately, have been left to the efforts of some member states, organisations and individuals, even some of us who have carried out projects in our own countries. what's missing in this whole process is concrete solutions and outcomes. i'm going to repeat the words i said here almost a year ago. we can't sell young people a bottle of wine like you are our future, we rely on you, on young people the world remains and so on. and we just did. although i have personally done something concrete for the youth during this year, i am ashamed and i just feel like i have betrayed them. how those who did nothing feel, i don't know, but i'm ashamed for them, too. ladies and gentlemen, the symbolism is beautiful, but it's not what the young people want and i'm afraid we've disappointed them.
the european year of youth has rightly put the spotlight on young people, who, unfortunately, are again disproportionately burdened by the crisis in which europe and the world find themselves. at the same time, the new generations continue to show that they are the engine of development and that they have a special power, the power of innovation, the power of creativity, the power of excellence. they therefore deserve, first and foremost, a secure and peaceful, but also a sustainable and digital european future. the war in ukraine is another shock to the younger generation. instead of sitting in classrooms or training on sports fields, young ukrainians were forced to take up arms, a fate that no one deserves. together with the rest of europe's youth, young ukrainians deserve a secure future, and these are things that today, unfortunately, we may take for granted, for granted, safe homes, secure education, secure jobs and family life. for young europeans, the war in ukraine, unfortunately, is another lesson and a reminder that these are values that our generation will have to fight for and have to fight for.
mr president, colleagues, i absolutely want to see the full and effective application of the medical device regulation, because it is extremely important for patients and for those providing their medical care to give assurance on the safety and the effectiveness of these devices. but i do not want to see a situation develop whereby there will be a shortage – or, as some fear, an unavailability – of vital products. doctors say that they are already struggling with shortages and they are fearful that this situation will become much more serious. the slow implementation of the medical device legislation and the limited capacity of notified bodies has led to this situation. without urgent action, this situation will only get worse and these shortages will impact on patients and on the healthcare system. so, commissioner, i welcome your statement today that in december you’re going to bring forward clear proposals to address this situation. i would hope that this will include proposals for a targeted legislative solution that will protect those devices that are already on the market. what we need, as well, is a targeted or tailored transition period for some devices.
a uachtaráin, ireland has urgent and significant concerns regarding the medical devices and in vitro diagnostics regulations. there are real issues with the implementation of the directive that need to be addressed. the regulations introduce new certification requirements. however, substantial and immediate certification bottlenecks mean that ireland could face considerable shortages in key medical products in the near future. this places patients’ lives at risk and our healthcare system under strain. if these bottlenecks are not addressed by the may 2024 deadline for certification, there is a risk that one in four med—tech products currently in use could be discontinued. at a time when europe should be building up homegrown industry and investing in innovation, without some adjustments to the implementation of this regulation we risk losing med—tech firms to the us and other markets outside the eu, and thus losing out on investment and competitiveness in this area. the irish government is calling for a legislative proposal to prevent the loss of existing safe and essential med—tech products.
the commission has already done so. the european medical association tweeted today that it is urging this: european doctors aim to ensure the availability of medical devices. this is a warning signal which we cannot take into account with the usual technical restraint. if young children cannot be treated because the necessary equipment is no longer available, because there are bottlenecks in the approval procedures, then we cannot be indifferent. this is a disaster for the patients concerned, but it is also an economic problem, because the approval process is now going faster in the united states than in our country. and that is why, commissioner kyriakides, political leadership is needed. it is not enough to say that something is being done here and there. you must take political responsibility for making progress in this area. because if we don't act now, we will lose over 20,000 certified products in two years. and we can't afford to do that for the sake of patients, but we can't afford to do that because our economy lives off of it. so please, personally, take action now.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all, thank you for bringing this important file for discussion in the european parliament. and i have said already that this is a priority for us, for the european commission. and our intention is not, as has been heard, to hurt the citizens, but to protect them. so quality is paramount. and i can assure you that it is a political priority for the commission and for myself, because we are fully aware of the challenges, and we have wasted no time. now, the data received from the notified bodies and industry show that the situation is indeed extremely challenging. only around 2 000 certificates have been issued under the medical device regulation, while about 23 000 will be expiring in may 2024. this is why the medical device coordination group has been working on a list of actions, and all stakeholders are involved, including the medical associations, in order to look at what we can change. and we expect that the important actions that we will take will make a real difference. we are also, as a commission, listening carefully to all calls for additional measures, including an amendment of the medical device regulation. and we are proceeding with the next steps. now, i don’t think there is anyone in this plenary who will say that the unavailability of medical devices needed for health systems and patients isn’t extremely worrying. and this is a priority. but the medical device regulation allows member states to grant at national level derogations from the applicable conformity assessment procedures. and in some member states they are able to apply these to bridge the gap between the expiry of an old certificate and the issue of a certificate under the mdr. the medical device coordination group is now working to find a uniform approach for these measures. however, we fully recognise that as more certificates expire, the worse the situation is expected to become. so we’re very conscious of the urgency that i have heard spoken in this plenary in order to avoid shortages of medical devices, which will put patient safety at risk. the regulations on medical devices are a very important step towards providing safe and better performing devices, and these are to benefit the patients and health. as i’ve said, we’re working on a legislative proposal plus other actions. our task is to ensure that safe devices – and this needs to remain a priority – remain available for patients and for our health systems. so let me assure you that i will be remaining in very close contact with this house over the next few weeks and will keep you fully informed of our next steps.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report. the recent escalation of russia's brutal military aggression, pardon the pun, against ukraine is a confirmation of its determination to violate ukraine's fundamental rights to independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognized borders and to destroy its viability as a state. the courage, courage and determination of the ukrainian people to defend their country deserve deep respect and gratitude. through the 'team europe' approach, the european union, its member states and the european financial institutions mobilised €19 billion for the economic, social and financial resilience of ukraine at the beginning of the russian military aggression. this, combined with the support from the union budget of eur 12,4 billion, including macro-financial assistance in support of the european investment bank, the european bank for reconstruction and development, is fully and partially guaranteed by the budget of the european union, as well as additional financial support from the member states of eur 7,3 billion. it should be part of our duty to support the attacked state so that it can resist aggression.
a uachtaráin, the digital decade policy programme is a key step towards the eu achieving its objectives for the digital transformation of society and the economy. the path to a digital decade programme reinforces the eu’s position as a digital leader and promotes human—centred, inclusive and sustainable digital policies. the past number of decades has seen significant developments in the internet, the digital economy and electronics, and the digital decade policy programme will ensure the eu achieves its aims for an inclusive and sustainable digital transformation. this programme ensures that at least 20 million ict specialists are employed in the eu by promoting the access of women to this field. the programme will also ensure more than 90% of smes in the eu will reach at least a basic level of digital integration. i am therefore pleased to support the path to a digital decade.
the president, i am pleased to commend the development of european aircraft structures. the european union will play a key role in defending against unfairness and egoism. cinnie is going to work towards the goal of preventing climate change at the united nations and going to stop global climate change. the plan will be implemented by the member states and the institutions of the union to achieve a common policy. in addition, they will ensure that public funds are used efficiently. the european union has adopted a policy development plan following the august 2011 earthquake and the subsequent war in ukraine. the development of the european air transport structure will be based on the union's wide-ranging influence on the financial world.
a uachtaráin, the energy charter treaty plays a key role in energy policy across europe. however, in the absence of any substantial update of the ect since the 1990s, it is clear that the modernisation of the treaty is due. i welcome efforts by the eu and its member states to drive the modernisation process of the energy charter treaty, particularly on investment protection standards and the fostering of sustainable development. i also welcome the position to end protections granted to investments in economic activities considered to be significantly harmful and that undermine the eu’s climate objectives. it is clear the energy charter treaty is in need of reform, particularly given the current energy crisis and the fight against climate change. i therefore call on the european commission and eu member states party to the ect to support its modernisation and to ratify the modernised treaty.
mr president, i voted against this report categorically because the measures under the regulation on the attachment of living conditions have to be implemented by the commission, which is contrary to the rule of law and directly affects or seriously threatens to affect the sound financial management of the union. the policy pursued by the european union and the european parliament towards hungary, namely the suspension of 65% of the appropriations for commitments under the cohesion policy, does not correspond in any way to the reality and logic of the european union, to the idea of the rule of law. the 'rule of law' theme is used to push policies in a number of member states, including hungary. this is absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable, contrary to the nature of the treaties and contrary to the idea of european union. for this reason, such an approach of blackmail, of bending the arms, cannot be supported in any way, because it is precisely in these approaches that the growing role of scepticism of many citizens of the member states of the european union is hidden.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because the growing wolf populations in the european union and the problem that these populations allegedly pose to biodiversity and traditional livestock farming in europe, as well as the need for a joint assessment of the conservation status and transboundary measures to protect and manage the population of large predators in a scientifically sound manner, meet the ecological requirements of wolf species that inhabit large areas and make large migrations. hunting should therefore be allowed, within the framework of good practice, the rules and the way in which these hunting parties operate, so that they can carry out the useful activity of protecting the farm and protecting human lives and the farm of the people. bulgaria provides a positive example of how in a country with the least investment in europe in wolf hunting, the range and numbers of this predator are increasing despite the measures. on the other hand, the bear, as a strictly protected species in this country, has declined by more than 30% in the last 10 years, according to official data.
that concludes this item.
the minutes of this meeting shall be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next part-session. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at today's sitting to the persons and bodies named in them.
the next meeting will be held from 12 to 15 december.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very grateful for the mitun this week. i would like to thank the services very much for their work, the interpreters, the waiters, the pres dg. when you come out, you'll see the strasbourg christmas tree is already there. we have the longest advent season; next sunday is the first of advent. the christmas tree is ready, it is being decorated, and tomorrow the strasbourg christmas market will open. i wish you a safe and healthy journey home and a happy beginning to the season of advent. (the sitting was closed at 3.48 p.m.)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 24 november 2022.
dear colleagues, good afternoon. i think it would be no exaggeration to say that these have been among the longest days of my career. i must choose my words carefully, in a manner that does not jeopardise ongoing investigations or in any way undermine the presumption of innocence. and i will. so if my fury, my anger, my sorrow do not come across, please be assured that they are very much present – along with my determination for this house to grow stronger. make no mistake: the european parliament, dear colleagues, is under attack. european democracy is under attack. and our way of open, free democratic societies are under attack. the enemies of democracy for whom the very existence of this parliament is a threat, will stop at nothing. these malign actors linked to autocratic third countries have allegedly weaponised ngos, unions, individuals, assistants and members of the european parliament in an effort to subdue our processes. their malicious plans failed. our services, of whom i am incredibly proud, have been working with relevant national law enforcement and judicial authorities to break up this alleged criminal network for some time. we have acted in sync with authorities to ensure that all legal steps are respected, that all information is preserved, and that, where needed, it equipment is secured, offices are sealed and house searches are able to be carried out. i accompanied a belgian judge and police as required by the belgian constitution to a house search last weekend. as a precautionary measure, again with full respect for the presumption of innocence, i have stripped the vice-president mentioned of any tasks and responsibilities related to their role as vice-president and i have convened an extraordinary meeting of the conference of presidents to launch a rule 21 procedure to bring their term as vice-president to an end in an effort to protect the integrity of this house. i was also scheduled today to announce the opening of the negotiating mandate for the visa—waiver report with qatar and kuwait. in light of the investigations, this report must be sent back to committee. i also know that we are not at the end of the road and we will continue to assist in investigations, together with other eu institutions, for as long as it takes. corruption cannot pay and we have played our part in ensuring these plans could not materialise. and i must be clear: the allegations are not about left or right or north or south. this is about right and wrong. and i would appeal to you to resist the temptation to exploit this moment for political gain. do not cheapen the threat that we are facing. i am in politics – like so many of you here – to fight corruption, to stand up for the principles of europe. this is a test of our values and of our systems, and colleagues, let me assure you that we will meet this test head on. there will be no impunity. none. those responsible will find this parliament on the side of the law, and i am proud of our role and assistance in this investigation. there will be no sweeping under the carpet. we will launch an internal investigation to look at all the facts related to the parliament and to look at how our systems can become yet more watertight. there will be no business as usual. we will launch a reform process to see who has access to our premises; how these organisations, ngos and people are funded; what links with third countries they have. we will ask for more transparency on meetings with foreign actors and those linked to them. we will shake up this parliament and these towns and i need your help to do it. we will protect those who help us expose criminality, and i will work to look at our whistleblower systems to see how they can be made stronger. but i must also say that while we can always look to increase deterrents and transparency, there will always be some for whom a bag of cash is always worth the risk. and what is essential is that these people understand that they will get caught, that our services work and that they will face the full extent of the law, as happened in this case. these are challenging times for us all, but i know, and i am convinced, that if we work together we can come out of it stronger. to you, my colleagues who have lived these days with me, let me say again how deeply disappointed i am – i know you all share the same sentiment. and to those malign actors in third countries who think they can buy their way forward, who think europe is for sale, who think they can take over our ngos, let me say that you will find this parliament firmly in your way. we are europeans. we would rather be cold than bought. colleagues, with the agreement of the political groups, before we officially start this plenary meeting i will give the floor to the group leaders.
chair of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, we as the epp group are shocked. the corruption charges against one of our highest representatives of this european parliament has significantly damaged our institution and affected the trust of people in the european union as a whole. the damage to european democracy is too big to be now used for party political battles. let us be clear about this. we are, as the epp group, extremely worried because we feel the credibility of the only directly elected institution in europe is put in danger by the actions of the people concerned. it will take more than this debate to restore some of the trust that has been lost. as they say, trust comes on foot but leaves on a horse. on the one side, no rule can stop criminals, but on the other side, we as the epp group are ready to improve our rules to make them better for the future. every one of us is sitting here with the feeling of responsibility. and to fight corruption is one of it. corruption is the biggest enemy of democracy. it undermines the freedom of speech. it breaks the trust people have in their institutions of state. to be crystal clear: there is not any room for corruption in the parliament or in other institutions of the european union. the laws must be applied strictly and the prosecution has to be followed consequently. and we express as epp our gratitude to the belgian police and the public prosecutor for their investigation and their actions. there is not any question that this house will cooperate fully with the rest of these investigations. i want to thank you, madam president, roberta metsola, for your clear and important cooperation at the beginning of this difficult development. fight against corruption is key. that is the only way to regain the trust of the european people in the institution, in the european parliament, in the heart of democracy in europe.
president of the s&d group. - madam president, i wanted to start by saying that i am sure that i will express what the vast majority of this house has in mind today. and that is that this is a dark day for european democracy. a very sad day. and also, as you will understand, a very difficult day for the socialist group. that's why i want to announce that we've just made the decision to list ourselves as a party to the legal process that's about to begin right now. because the criminal behaviour of certain individuals tarnishes this institution and tarnishes the credibility of the european union. a judicial investigation is underway and those responsible will have to pay in the eyes of the law. but this house must also respond forcefully to clarify what has happened and, above all, ensure that it does not happen again. that is why i call for responsibility and unity. i have already spoken to the president and to the leaders of the other political groups to work together for greater transparency and accountability. the european citizens must know that they can count on us to clarify the facts, to cooperate with the judiciary and to act responsibly. because the day-to-day work that the vast majority of members of this house are doing cannot be overlooked. we shall be discussing concrete measures in the various bodies of this house and, if necessary, in other european institutions. we must act firmly against corruption. let us defend the honesty of politics and let us do it by working together. because our unity is the best weapon against corruption and against those who want to damage european democracy.
co-chair of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i can only echo what the colleagues have been saying. these are dark days for european democracy. i can tell you personally, colleagues, that i have always been a very proud member of this parliament. to me, it’s the honour of my life to be elected to this parliament. in the last days, honestly, this pride has seriously been shaken. i myself know that most of us here are working hard, that we are honest and sincere in representing the eu citizens, but now i’m actually thinking about the millions of eu citizens who are struggling right now – the people who are lying awake at night who do not know how to pay their bills, who do not know how to get through the next month and what they had to see over the past days. this puts shame on all of us here in this parliament. we have to be absolutely clear: this parliament, after what has happened, cannot do business as usual. we cannot stop at just thoughts and prayers. we have to be absolutely clear. we have to act. i want us to act, as the colleagues have said, unitedly, as pro—european democrats. but we have to act, and we also have to put something in writing to be clear about what we want, because we want a full inquiry into this matter. everything has to come to the surface right now because, as people have said, trust has been broken. we have to have a dedicated position in the ep bureau that is working on these reforms, that is working on anti—corruption, and we need to have more far—reaching measures, like, for example, the reform of the lobby register, as well as an ethics body that can make sure that we do everything in our power to prevent something like this in the future. indeed, colleagues, the trust of citizens has been broken, and to my understanding, rightfully so. so let us do everything we can to bring everything to light and to prevent something like this from happening again in the future. this is about more than just us. this is about protecting this house. this is about protecting democracy. this is about protecting the european project. so let us do all we can – we owe it to ourselves and we owe it to our citizens.
chairman of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the president for her words at this difficult time. what is happening these days i think is so far removed from the culture that should belong to this institution, that it becomes very difficult even to find the words to comment on it. we are all deeply shocked by what is emerging in these hours, with very serious accusations against influential members of these institutions, present and past, as well as collaborators under investigation in various ways. it is clear and essential to our group that this parliament must take a strong and decisive stand because, unfortunately, the attitude we have seen in the past and especially in recent months has been an attitude that has not helped these institutions, with colleagues who have stood up as champions against foreign interference, even to the extent of filling an official report of this parliament with accusations that are not always substantiated. we're in the classic situation where you look at other people's straw and you don't notice the beam in your own eye. that is why i say to all my colleagues today that this parliament must be more humble and less hypocritical on certain sensitive issues. it is clear that everyone can make mistakes and make a mistake and the responsibility for actions, until proven otherwise, is always personal, but what has become frankly untenable in this legislature, and will have to change, i believe, is the attitude of moral superiority of some. this huge scandal we're experiencing is just more proof. now, beyond the immediate actions we are going to take to protect the respectability of these institutions, i think we need to do more in-depth work and i think this parliament needs to investigate thoroughly in the future whether there is also a political responsibility behind the facts we have seen and to reconstruct, starting from a different attitude and above all by countering that self-referentiality which we have too often seen damaging this institution and the european institutions.
chair of the ecr group. – madam president, well, there is not much to be said. a lot of facts have already come out, and i’m sure more will come out in the future. perhaps some of them quite surprising in a most unpleasant sort of way. but you are right, of course, madam president, that a european institution – the european parliament – was targeted by the bad guys. they probably consider the parliament to be a place with several weak spots. indeed, they succeeded to a degree that shocked a lot of us. i always wonder, to what extent is it a problem of the personal weaknesses of our colleagues, former colleagues or staffers, and to what extent is it a problem of a system, of a structure, and of rules and procedures? probably both elements should be taken into account, and i wish there could be some kind of critical objective analysis of this phenomenon. after all, this is a huge institution, which is very complex and not easy to manage. such a critical analysis should be conducted with somebody from outside, not from our midst, for obvious reasons, that we are more interested in sustaining this institution and defending it no matter what we say openly. i would suggest that we should have a sort of critical description of the way such an institution functions. perhaps that would give us an insight into what was wrong and how to prevent similar developments from happening in the future. one last point: one thing that will certainly not improve the reputation of european parliament is pompous, highfalutin rhetoric. this will not help. i have an impression that we very much like to indulge in lofty language that didn’t help in the future, hasn’t helped and won’t help. just do something real. we want the real thing, not rhetoric. rhetoric is a very easy thing.
that concludes this round. we shall now go back to our agenda.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sitting of 24 november are available. if there are no comments the minutes are approved.
the libe committee has adopted two mandates to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure, on third countries whose nationals are subject to or exempt from a visa requirement – kuwait and qatar, and on the european union drugs agency. for the first file on third countries whose nationals are subject to or exempt from a visa requirement – kuwait and qatar, i have decided with the agreement of the political groups to propose a referral back to committee of this file pursuant to rule 198. i understand that the rapporteur would like to take the floor.
i shall put the proposal to a vote. (parliament agreed to the proposal)the motion is carried and the file is referred back. regarding the other libe mandate on the european union drugs agency, pursuant to rule 71(2) members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, tuesday 13 december at midnight that the decision to enter into negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote is made, the committee may start the negotiations. the reports which constitute the mandates for the negotiations are available on the plenary webpage and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting.
the s&d group has communicated to me that eva kaili is no longer a member of the group as of 9 december 2022 and that she sits with the non-attached members. pascal durand is no longer a member of the renew europe group and has joined the s&d group as of 30 november 2022.
the competent authorities of italy have notified me of the election of beatrice covassi to the european parliament replacing simona bonafè with effect from 6 december 2022. i wish to welcome our new colleague and recall that she takes her seat in parliament and its bodies in full enjoyment of her rights pending the verification of her credentials.
in accordance with article 7 of the code of conduct for members of the european parliament with respect to financial interests and conflicts of interest, i decided to appoint gilles boyer as a member of the advisory committee on the conduct of members, replacing pascal durand, with effect from 7 december 2022.
the s&d, renew europe, verts/ale, id and ecr groups and the non-attached members have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. those decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
i have received from the council its position at first reading, as well as the reasons which led to its adoption and the positions and opinions of the commission. the full title will be listed in the minutes of this sitting. the three—month period available to parliament to adopt its positions will therefore begin as from tomorrow, 13 december 2022.
i would like to inform you that, since the adjournment of parliament’s session on 24 november, i have signed, together with the president of the council, one act adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules of procedure. i would also like to inform you that on wednesday i shall sign, together with the president of the council, 11 acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
i would like to inform you that i have received a request for urgent procedure from the council pursuant to rule 163, on the macro-financial assistance+ instrument providing support to the ukraine for 2023. the vote on this request will be taken tomorrow. if adopted, the vote will be held on thursday. since this is a second reading procedure, should no proposal to reject the council’s position and no amendments be tabled, the proposed act will be announced as adopted, pursuant to rule 69. i have received a number of changes to the agenda requested by political groups. we have five groups that have asked for a debate on our introductory debate on the suspicions of corruption. what i would propose is that i ask the first group that submitted a request, which was the left group, to submit its request, so ms aubry will present it. we will then see whether there is a majority for that request. after that, we will proceed to see whether there is a majority for a resolution.
we will vote first on the proposal from the left group, and if that has a majority then the other motions fall. (parliament agreed to the proposal)we will therefore have a debate on tuesday afternoon. we will now see the majorities for whether we should have a resolution.
i have to say, madam president, the president-in-office has invited us to come to the conference of presidents tomorrow to take the first steps and to react to them. i think what is important now is that parliament should take swift and clear decisions and react. we are trying to achieve a broad pro-european, democratic consensus on this approach. that means that tomorrow the conference of presidents will have already taken clear decisions. we shall have discussions on the proposal of the left group, so that we have enough opportunity to debate this week. i would therefore like to stress and support the proposal by mr séjourné, bearing in mind these two points, that we should proceed with the resolution in january, when we have the facts before us from the investigating authorities. this week we have to make a decision quickly, and that should be the conference of presidents.
i put to the vote the request to have a resolution this week. (parliament agreed to the request)
ms kanko, i cannot do that, but you can explain your vote and the procedure and you can participate in the debate and on the resolution, now that the decision to have a resolution has been taken. on tuesday, the s&d, ppe and renew groups have requested that council and commission statements on ‘the recent jha council decision on schengen accession’ be added as the second item in the afternoon after question time to the commission. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended until 23:00.
madam president, following last week's justice and home affairs council, in which romania and bulgaria were treated unfairly and completely incorrectly, and which violated the decision that this parliament took on the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area, i ask you to have this debate on tuesday after question time on the decision that was taken by the justice and home affairs council last week and therefore to extend the working time until 11.00 p.m. on tuesday.
(parliament agreed to the request) president. – for wednesday, the renew group has requested that council and commission statements on ‘defending the european union against the abuse of national vetoes’ be added as the second item in the afternoon. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended until 23:00.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i think that it’s obvious why an additional point on wednesday afternoon would be added on defending european union against the abuse of national vetoes. because everybody can see today what is happening with national vetoes, on every file. more and more of these files are blocked today. the last days, the last weeks: migration strategy, schengen, electoral law, energy, price cap on gas, taxation policy, the minimum rate on multinationals, further sanctions and further financial aid to ukraine, where we need to find now a solution with 26 instead of a solution inside the union. so it’s clear that, in my opinion, vetoes are an instrument for blackmailing the union, and it is increasing for the moment. i know that we asked for a convention to seriously discuss this. and again, due to the lack of consensus, the council is not in a position to respond to that request. so i know that we have a discussion on wednesday with the european council, but it’s only 2 hours. what we are going to discuss is ukraine, and we’re going to discuss energy. so i request that we need to urgently debate before the council on thursday, and my proposal will be to add that item wednesday afternoon as the second point on the agenda.
(parliament agreed to the request) president. – the ppe group has asked that a commission statement on the ‘impact on the rule of law of recent developments in spain’ be added as the fifth item in the afternoon.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the epp requests an additional debate on this issue of rule of law, strengthening the institutions and judicial independence. there are worrying developments in some of your countries, namely in spain, towards less independence of the judiciary and more governmental intervention in it, in breach of the rule of law principles. the president of the government has recently announced his intention of taking unilateral measures on the judiciary that clearly go against everything that the european union’s values and principles defend. the playing rules cannot be changed for political interests in order to place former members of government in the national constitutional court and to change the criminal court. it cannot be handed over to convicted criminals to decide which crimes to suppress, such as sedition and corruption. this is not a national debate. we see. we listen. we read. if we read, we listen and we see. we cannot pretend that worrying developments are not going on in spain. we should not have a double pattern.
(parliament rejected the request) president. – on thursday, the ppe group has requested that the commission statement on ‘the 30th anniversary of the un declaration on the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities’ be wound up by a resolution to be voted on thursday.
thank you very much ms langensiepen, you are absolutely right, and we will do our best to make sure this doesn’t happen again with different measures that we can take. i will speak to the relevant services. (the sitting was suspended briefly.)
i would like to stress, before i do, every single sentence, every single word of the president. this house stands for transparency, it stands for democracy. the next item is the report (a9-0284/2022) by mrs anne-sophie pelletier, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the subject of 'equal rights for people with disabilities' (2022/2026 (ini)).
i am sorry to interrupt you, mrs pelletier, but the interpretation has not yet arrived. i do not know how the other members are doing, but i have not received any interpretation so far. i'm trying to sort this out, and i'd ask you to start your speech again. just a moment, please. i have to tell you from the domeshchka booths that i was very politely but clearly told that there is no sign language interpretation into the european languages into which it is being translated. and for that reason, i must ask you to give your speech in one of the official languages. however, i understood your message very well, and i think that this is a wonderful opportunity to include sign language in the catalogue of official languages. question no 2 by anne-sophie pelletier: what should i do? do i talk, or what do i do now? i would ask you to give your speech in one of the official languages of the european union as listed in our catalogue. but your message was received well.
the author of the opinion of the consultative committee on petitions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. our goal must be to achieve an inclusive and caring society for all people. people with disabilities have the right to make their lives as they wish. these include: being able to have relationships, acceptance and inclusion. that must be our common goal. accessibility is key. even in the european institutions we have not yet reached the level we have just seen. that is not acceptable, and it should be the first step for us to take care of that here. we all face challenges in our daily lives, and we need more social attention. during the covid crisis, depression and panic attacks have increased dramatically. in addition to physical and mental impairments, mental limitations can also constitute and exacerbate disability. it is not being sufficiently appreciated at the moment. to tackle these problems we need a different mindset and different approaches, starting at the european level and going down to the administrations of the member states and the municipalities. people with disabilities need more support at all european levels.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities focuses on areas where eu action brings the highest added value, strongly calling on member states to act in their areas of competence. the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is our beacon. the convention is clear: equal rights need to underpin every single area of life of persons with disabilities. i welcome our common perspectives and commitment. this is the message we will send to the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities in the context of its ongoing review of the eu’s implementation of the convention. the questions the parliament raises with this report are fundamental. i welcome the opinions provided by the committee on employment and social affairs, the committee on petitions and the committee on culture and education. living independently while being included in the community is the cornerstone of equal participation and of full enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms. next year, the commission will present guidance on deinstitutionalisation and independent living, followed in 2024 by a framework of excellence for social services for persons with disabilities. these two initiatives go hand in hand, as true inclusion in the community can only happen if quality, affordable and accessible local services are available. accessibility is another key element, as we heard earlier today, for independent living, as it enables persons with disabilities to move freely, access information and enjoy the opportunities their communities offer, including in employment, education, culture, sport and leisure, without forgetting, of course, access to healthcare. in this spirit, with the accessibleeu initiative, the commission will offer support to member states to implement accessibility legislation and to share and develop good practices. another important initiative mentioned in your report is the eu disability card. the commission work programme for next year refers to our intention to put forward a legislative proposal. an impact assessment will help determine the scope of the card, as well as the type of legal instrument to put it into practice. we have high ambitions, but will need to be mindful of competences, as set out in our treaties. the commission intends to make progress on the equal treatment directive beyond employment. i am glad to note that parliament is on the same page in this respect. both reasonable accommodation and non-discriminatory access are necessary to achieve equal treatment of persons with disabilities. similarly, i hope we can continue to support and facilitate the participation of persons with disabilities in the upcoming european elections in 2024, in order to advance on the accessibility of electoral information and voting mechanisms, as well as on the participation of persons with disabilities. additionally, persons with disabilities have a right to be elected on an equal basis with others, and this parliament should represent the eu in all its diversity. although bound by member states’ competences in the organisation of elections, i believe we can launch a strong message as eu institutions on this democratic matter. political participation is, however, just part of the wider picture to ensure that broader legal rights in terms of legal capacity, decision making and access to justice are ensured for persons with disabilities. the participation of persons with disabilities in the design and implementation of programmes for disaster risk reduction needs to be strengthened to make preparedness plans and response efforts more accessible. it is clear that much work remains to be done. thank you for the opportunity to open this important point, and i look forward to the discussion.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. inclusion is a human right, because every human being has the right to be an equal part of society. this is what the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities says, and this convention also requires the implementation of human rights for people with disabilities in all areas of life. we have already made a commitment to this ten years ago, we have heard it today, and i say it again: the reality is completely different, and yes, we should be ashamed of that, too. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the disabled are not excluded from the labour market. participation is not allowed and the human right of inclusion is violated repeatedly. and there is still no directive prohibiting this discrimination against people with disabilities. and yet there is no adequate discussion of the experiences of violence that these people have. people with disabilities are disabled by us as a society. to change that, we need a paradigm shift. we need a different representation. we need different rules. we need different laws. we must ensure self-determination and provide protection against discrimination. people with disabilities must not be dependent on charity, on donations. they only need one thing, and that is that human rights are respected. we have to take care of that. the report by mrs pelletier and the way in which it was presented have shown this most clearly and deserve our full support. let us all, please, deal with this matter with full energy.
dear president, dear colleagues, dear citizens of the european union. family, society, the state, the european union - all have one meaning. the fundamental sense that we care for each other, that those who can contribute more contribute more, that those who cannot have a life of dignity. the disabled, unfortunately, can be in different groups. some have a minor disability and can, with our help, participate in social life on an almost equal footing. sadly, some disabled people are born with physical and mental disabilities that prevent them from participating in life from the time of their birth. many children who are born or who get autism at an early age, they're not children who have small difficulties. some of them do. some are completely disabled and need round-the-clock parental care. parents' greatest fear is what will happen to their children when they die. we have to be with them.
madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, this year in italy, in the face of demands for 300 gigawatts of renewable energy, we will only be able to connect three of them to the grid, a real figure which shows how the authorization procedures at the different levels, whether national, regional or territorial, represent the real obstacle to be overcome. we therefore welcome this measure, which provides for concrete instruments to identify so-called acceleration zones for renewable energies, where plants will benefit from faster authorisation procedures. we also welcome the prevailing public interest concept for the authorization and planning of renewable energy plants, recognizing their priority for our economy and society. the deployment of renewable energy and the increasing integration of the energy mix of different member countries, due to the war in ukraine, have not only an environmental value, but also a strategic value, in defence of our sovereignty and our freedom. without breaking down the great wall of bureaucracy, the challenge of the energy transition will remain a goal on paper only.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the war in ukraine has finally brought home to many that we need to accelerate the expansion of renewable energy. this regulation is intended to support this, and that is good and important. i am, however, critical of some aspects of this regulation. in addition to the climate crisis, we must not forget that we also have a biodiversity crisis, as the un cop15 that is currently taking place makes very clear. the dramatic loss of biodiversity is a ticking time bomb. the protection of nature must not therefore fall under the umbrella of climate protection. unfortunately, some of the rules and amendments tabled by the house are aimed at this very purpose. the area of overriding public interest is not always the one that is most in keeping with nature conservation. we can do better than that. take, for example, the widespread industrial wasteland for renewable energy development instead of natural land. we need a green energy transition, and it's not just about replacing fossil fuels with renewables. climate protection is also nature protection. both are mutually exclusive.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu has a vision of 240 million buildings becoming zero-emission. i mean, that's great, but will it work in practice? germany spent eur 342 billion on energy saving measures between 2010 and 2018. that's the equivalent of three swedish budgets. nevertheless, the energy consumption was almost the same. we should learn from germany and not throw the money in the sea. if we really want to make a difference, we'll invest in modern nuclear power plants and research and development. we need to move away from inefficient and expensive detailed management and start investing in climate action that actually makes a difference. we don't have to be the world champion of saving at the margins, but the best at what actually makes a difference.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, fellow citizens, in recent months we have declared the cheap energy sources, gas and oil, our newest enemies, the new enemies of the european union. and we started buying the same energy at several times the price of our allies. i have to admit, i didn't really understand anything until the other day. these days, when my fellow socialists were arrested for corruption by one of our new allies who, by the way, produces both gas and oil, everything became clear to me. whether the high inflation and the huge price increases, the deindustrialization, are the consequence, the european union the consequence of corruption or something else, it's not at all difficult to conclude.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, dear prime minister of our neighbouring and friendly republic of slovenia, in the name of our friendship i would like to ask you two things: one, to give us advice - how you managed to produce 45 million vehicles in revo... four and a half million, i apologize. you're producing 45 vehicles an hour. and we in the republic of croatia with billions of public money managed to produce only a few pieces. i sincerely ask for that advice. secondly, i ask you, as all citizens of the european union, colleagues, to support croatia tonight. that we have the european union final on sunday and that we can finally all get together and have a little fun and let the best man win. long live the european union, long live we.
mr. chairman, three decades of international recognition and aggression, in the tenth year of our european membership, croatia is rounding off its full return to european civilization. at a time of deep uncertainty and war on the european continent, this brings us, along with better transport connectivity, greater competitiveness, freedom of movement and a great development opportunity, an additional security - a stronger and more resilient national border. we regret that romania and bulgaria were not included, whose citizens have waited too long for equality and full freedom of movement. at this delicate geopolitical moment, we need a stronger schengen with romania and bulgaria. i want to thank once again all of you who have provided support for croatia's schengen membership in the last few months, and to finish, i will also ask you for a little more support tonight in our semi-final against argentina.
mr president, the justice and home affairs council last week unanimously adopted a political decision on the accession of the republic of croatia to schengen. croatia thus becomes a full member of the free movement area, unprecedented in the world, which is one of the symbols of the european integration project, as of 1 january 2023. less than ten years after joining the european union, croatia, as a member of schengen and the eurozone, is becoming fully european integrated. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities, which have not provided any further information. for croatia and its citizens, it is also the realization of the strategic interest of full membership of europe and the west. it is thanks to the great effort of the croatian government that croatia has successfully fulfilled 281 recommendations in eight areas in the most comprehensive and detailed evaluation. however, the process of strengthening the schengen area must continue. we must not forget romania and bulgaria. that is why i take this opportunity to express my full support for the accession of these two countries to schengen.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! the rising cost of living, linked to inflation, is europe's biggest social problem today. the increase in poverty is something that we haven't seen in europe for a long time. it emerged at the end of the covid-19 crisis and increased significantly during the russian invasion of ukraine. the de facto european economy is facing a recession, which will certainly lead to even more unemployment, to more poverty areas. the reason for the sharp increase in inflation is not only the consequences of russian aggression against ukraine, but also the consequences of implementing a reckless, unwise climate policy, moving away from fossil fuels, as well as the consequences of a false transformation leading to the dependence of the european union on russia. i'd like to draw attention to the subject of our discussion to stop speculation. so i wanted to ask the commissioner why other financial institutions have not been excluded from the emissions trading market so far. i will remind you that in 2017, a ton of co2 emission allowances cost five euros, in february 2022 100 euros. ladies and gentlemen, the left is so sensitive to this poverty. you're supposed to be sensitive because you support this horrendous, idiotic climate policy that leads to increased energy poverty. it's time to redefine climate policy. in the face of growing poverty, will the european commission tell those people who have no heating, no bills, no groceries, that we must pursue the idea of a green order? is that what people are supposed to eat to fill their stomachs, keep warm? it's time to think and reflect. and to take the real, thoughtful, necessary action to end poverty.
madam president, the european union and governments are trying to hide the causes of the precision that is tormenting the people, but they are not hidden: wages and hunger pensions with increases that are cuts; the explosive inflation from the recovery funds and the expansionary policy of the green and digital strategy of the european union and governments, with plenty of money for capital, which the people pay dearly with "green joys" in energy, fuel, food, rent; the climate war with n.t. russia and the other sanctions that accompany it; all these, among other things, affect the real, exploitative economic system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the face of the mockery of the poverty baskets, the "small-scale struggle" between liberals and social democrats, the organization of the people's struggle for real increases in wages and pensions, the abolition of indirect taxes on fuel, energy and food, the emancipation of the people in breach of the commitments of the european union and the age-old strategy of governments serving capital must now be strengthened.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the inflation we are experiencing today is due to two main causes: energy and, unfortunately, food. and the two are very closely related. 11 % of costs in agriculture are on average energy costs. in addition, there are currently high fertiliser prices, which are also partly a consequence of high energy prices. the result is that many people are unfortunately trying to find cheap food, and the premium sector - high quality and sustainably produced food - and organic farming are also suffering from this situation. that's exactly what we don't want. we must therefore once again be more careful that speculators do not take advantage of such times. it simply cannot be that many of our citizens are having to save on food while energy companies, food retailers and fertilizer manufacturers are raising their balance sheets. people don't know how to pay their bills, and we're talking about taxing special profits. something's not quite right. so basically we need three things: we need a clear price ceiling on energy, we need a functioning fertiliser market again, and we also do not need new legislative initiatives that threaten food security and supply in europe.
madam president, it is collective action that is essential to face the challenges of our time. together, we stand. divided, we fall. the war in the ukraine, extremely high energy prices, the impact of the pandemic, the consequences of climate change – what we needed and what we need is collective action to protect people and small businesses from the disruptive effects of these challenges on normal life. what we need is a strong government. what we don’t need is austerity. europeans have lived through austerity before and they say not again. but be realistic: a strong government needs solid funding. and this holds especially true in times of inflation. budgetary deficits only contribute to inflation. the imf, the ecb and a bunch of other economists all say it’s taxation, stupid. indeed, we need to break with the taboo of taxation. no, do not raise taxes on labour. but yes, do raise taxes on profits, wealth and pollution. level the playing field between capital and labour, between workers and investors. wealth in europe is wildly undertaxed. however, it’s better to let money work than to work yourself. colleagues, let’s their four stand together, allow for a strong government, break with the taboo on taxation. the need in our era of high energy prices is compensation for the many, taxation for the few.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, we are at the end of a difficult year, a difficult 2022. at this same time, a year ago, we were looking forward to 2022 and planning for it and hoping for a full recovery from the coronavirus pandemic and for better days. unfortunately, those hopes were dashed on february 24th when this unfortunate war in ukraine began and the energy price spike and inflation that followed. it turned out that europe was not ready for such a brutal energy war. unfortunately, with all the measures taken by the european union, the biggest price is paid by our citizens and economy, who are not having an easy time of it. therefore, commissioner gentiloni, i believe that the priority for the commission's work in the coming year should be to stop inflation, to strengthen renewable energy sources and to simplify paperwork for citizens and the economy, and to continue to provide assistance and subsidies from the commission and the member states to the most vulnerable groups. many, many investments can wait, but this one i'm talking about can't wait, if we want a better, happier and more pleasant 2023.
dear chair, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, inflation, driven in large part by the energy crisis and the disruption of supply chains due to the war in ukraine, has had a major impact on the purchasing power of citizens in the european union. for the same amount of money, an eu consumer can buy 10% fewer items today than in the same period last year. one of the causes of the energy crisis is the wrong policy decisions of the countries that decided a decade ago to replace cheap and reliable nuclear energy with russian gas, and this should be clearly stated. in such circumstances, it was precisely the diversification of energy sources, through the construction of lng terminals, that proved to be one of the solutions. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide the eu with a comprehensive set of rules on the protection of the environment. however, as a long-term solution, it is necessary to build a fully-fledged single european energy market under strict supervision in order to prevent speculation. only an energy-based europe can provide security for citizens and businesses in times of crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, recent investigations in european countries have revealed the existence of a system of control by the chinese police, which is designed to monitor citizens considered to be dissidents and to exert pressure on them to force them to return home. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the commission has also been involved in cases of corruption to benefit qatar and morocco, including the former social democratic vice-president kaili. this stain on the institutions and the credibility of our democratic body comes from the very political group which has always had the arrogance of claiming moral superiority, from those ngos which act in the shadows, masquerading as noble intentions. it has been said that corruption has no political colour. it's not true! the colour is there and it is the red of the left of the socialist group. this parliament should start to be less hypocritical and take a stronger stance, to prevent europe from continuing to be seen as the playground of the world, where everyone can do whatever they want without paying the consequences. what instruments does the eu intend to use, in conjunction with the member states, to enforce the democratic principles it has always sought to protect?
mr. chairman, defending democracy from outside interference is the topic of today's debate, it has been discussed many times and it has always been a festival of hypocrisy. it was used mainly to deal with dissenters within parliament, the member states and outside the union. the minute someone thinks differently and doesn't think the way they're supposed to, they're immediately looked at as some kind of agent. if the elections or the referendum don't go well, there's a call for a repeat, from the lisbon treaty to another brexit referendum. as soon as a government is elected that is not 100% obedient, there is talk of outside influence, even rigged elections. corruption is suddenly a topic and a problem in this country. the hungarian government, the polish government, and the swedish and italian governments are criticized from here, because they have some of their own views, but never obedient governments like the croatian one. dozens of ministers have had to leave the croatian government in the last six years because of corruption scandals, and so many more should leave if they have a minimum of conscience and integrity. but it doesn't matter because prime minister plenkovic is obedient, raises his hand when necessary and god forbid he uses the veto. the ruling party in our country is a convicted criminal organization by the decision of the supreme court of the republic of croatia. there's no appeal against that decision, but that doesn't matter either because she's obedient to brussels. the message being sent is this: "it doesn't matter if you're corrupt, as long as you're obedient".
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the frequent external interference in the democratic processes in europe is aimed at undermining fundamental values and destabilising european society. one of the most striking examples is the amendment of the law on the president, which anti-european, pro-soviet and pro-russian forces want to use to gain power in an unconstitutional way in montenegro, a candidate country for eu membership. unfortunately, contrary to the recommendations of the venice commission, by voting on the law in the assembly of montenegro, this country has been plunged into an unprecedented constitutional-legal crisis. there was therefore no choice but to cancel the meeting of the stabilisation and association parliamentary committee between the european union and montenegro which was scheduled for this week in strasbourg. the area of south-east europe is under increasing intelligence, media and economic influence of foreign authoritarian regimes, which may destabilise the european union itself. a particular problem is the policy of serbia, which is persistently trying to sit on two chairs, maintaining military and economic cooperation with russia and refusing to impose sanctions on moscow. the serbian pro-russian and hegemonic policy, unfortunately, is also contributing to the destabilization of the neighbouring countries and the entire western balkans. that is why it is more important than ever for the european union to be more actively involved in the political processes in this part of europe, because the consequences of our inaction could be disastrous.
the budget, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, is the foundation of all european action in our member states, in our immediate neighbourhood and beyond. through the budget we define our strategic priorities and the future of our development. the political, economic and social context in which we define these priorities has been changed beyond recognition following the brutal russian aggression against ukraine. the tectonic changes in the security structure and the security architecture of europe, the historic turning point, but also the other growing global challenges, the unforeseen needs that europe has created because of the war far exceed the resources that we have at our disposal. we have a human and moral responsibility to stand with the ukrainian people who are fighting for their freedom, for their survival, and we also have a responsibility to support europe in the transformation that lies ahead. in this new era of uncertainty, we also face incredible needs, from the digital green transition, to european competitiveness, security and defence. we need a return to the basic european policies which cannot be achieved without adequate means. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the financial corrections are effective.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter 'the agency') is based on the principle of equal treatment for all medicinal products for human use. we can safely say that the current vfo is strained to the limit and cannot be used to respond to challenges. for this reason, we must start to seriously consider an audit of the vfo, as the usual approach is nowhere near enough to address the range of challenges that are emerging. i therefore welcome the fact that the report calls on the commission to propose a comprehensive and ambitious revision of the mff. as regards cohesion policy, it is increasingly used to strengthen other policies and to address shortcomings in budgetary flexibility or crisis response mechanisms under the emff. in this context, while crisis response measures are necessary and useful, cohesion policy should not be a tool for crisis response. the existing possibility to transfer funds from cohesion policy funds to other eu instruments up to 5% of the initial allocation provides sufficient flexibility, but should be maintained and not increased. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. the funding of cohesion policy must continue to serve its main objective: to reduce the development gap between the regions of the european union.
