co-president of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, dear family of david, last week, we not only lost a political leader but also a member of our european family. and as it always is with family members, they leave a painful void – a void that will be felt in this parliament for a very long time. president sassoli was a committed, heartfelt pro-european. he carried a deep conviction that europe’s future could only be ensured by working together, by overcoming the borders of the past. he leaves us a big legacy and it is up to us now to continue on this path. his conviction and passion for europe is our guidance for the future. in his political life, president sassoli could always rely on the power of the better argument. he was a man of political discussions striving to change people’s minds and convictions with the power of words. and thanks to his visions, humour and his compassion, he was able to connect with people and build lasting ties. in the current political climate that is so often shaped by polarisation and antagonism, he was able to build bridges and bring people together. he was, in that sense, a politician of the best kind and the best ambassador for our democratic house. president sassoli and i saw eye-to-eye on many big challenges that our continent is facing today – be it on climate change or on the need for a truly social europe. it was, however, his continuous battle against the humanitarian disaster of people suffering and dying at eu borders that brought us together the most. i will always honour david for his very clear words and deeply human approach. he impressed me as he did not shy away when the call for rescuing people at sea was far from popular, while he was convinced it is a human duty. dear members of this house, we have lost a most distinguished colleague and a great european politician. my deeply felt condolences go to the family of david, who have lost so much more. david sassoli, president of the european parliament, will be missed deeply and he will not be forgotten. (applause)
chairman of the id group. madam president, as this house is demonstrating today, i believe that respect and sorrow for the departure of the institutional figure of david sassoli should bring us together today in a shared memory, which covers the whole political arc of this parliament and goes beyond the family to which david belonged. the political vision of the group i represent, as you know, is not the same as that which david was advocating. nevertheless, we have always had the respectful awareness that figures like him, that of a kind, cultured man, who really believed in his ideas, with genuine passion, and who carried them out with devotion and seriousness, gave and give glory to the whole of politics. the unanimous expressions of esteem and affection for him - not least the sincere greeting we, as part of the institutions, paid to him on friday in rome during the state funeral - express better than any words the mark that the man sassoli left on each one of us, far beyond the sphere of his personal affections, to whom we renew our condolences today. just a few weeks ago, in december, as so often happens, we had the opportunity to meet and exchange views here in strasbourg, at the last plenary session of the year, and just a few days later, on the occasion of the christmas holidays, we had the opportunity to exchange new year's greetings. the encounter with david was always marked by a great cordiality, by a sincere and mutual respect, and i still remember his smiling eyes, the pat on the back, the simplicity with which he approached everyone inside these buildings. a simplicity that has always distinguished him, despite the high-profile role he had devoted to this institution. this is a commitment which he showed with courage and in practice until his last days as president of the european parliament, and for which we are grateful to him today. good luck, david, and may your smile and tenacity be an inspiration to us all for a long time to come. (applause) i would like to thank
co-chairman of the ecr group. madam president, authorities, honourable colleagues, family members, the premature death of president sassoli has left a void in each of us, but at the same time a memory that those who knew him will always carry with them, that of a serious, kind and respectful man of his interlocutors regardless of roles, functions and ideas. president sassoli has played his role with great self-sacrifice over the years, trying to make this institution, from his point of view, close to the real needs of the citizens. the institutional grace, his commitment to ensure the work of parliament even during the pandemic, his playing his role with the same dedication as always, even during the months of illness, which he lived with great dignity until the last day, demonstrate very clearly that the characteristic that president sassoli lived is an example for us. but its main element and concern was to organise and make parliament's work functional. all this regardless of the role. and all this is a sign of a politician of great stature, with great respect for the institutions. it is no secret that president sassoli had very different views and positions from our group, starting with the process of reforming the european union, which has often led to lively exchanges of views, but this has never prevented us from having, in these years, both in this house and within the conference of presidents, a constructive and respectful comparison of all positions, demonstrating intelligence, foresight and political sensitivity. but david was not only the speaker of parliament, he had become, over time, also and above all a friend. the diversity of positions has never been a limit to the strengthening and growth of the personal relationship, which has grown and consolidated over time. and even in this last period, when we saw each other, when we heard each other or talked to each other, we had the opportunity to be able to reiterate these feelings, this respect and this friendship. there are so many incidents that i could personally mention and that i will keep in my mind and especially in my heart to remember a great friend. i like to remember him with his great passion, with his great irony, with that smile that everyone called him, always ready to listen and give useful advice. i think it is important today, on behalf of the conservative group, to express our sincere and genuine, heartfelt, non-formal condolences first of all to the family, to mrs alessandra, to her children giulio and livia, to the political community of the democratic party and the socialist and democratic group, and also to its staff, whom i have had the opportunity to know and appreciate, who are also deeply affected by this incident. i am sure - and i say this as a political opponent - that even if he had finished his presidency in the months and years ahead, his contribution to europe would have been able to meet the challenges of the present and the future and would have been useful and fundamental. the diversity of opinion as a real enrichment, respect as a hallmark of his political commitment: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european institutions will be lacking, the whole of politics will be lacking, we will all be lacking a capable, serious, credible and respectful interlocutor. (applause) i would like to thank
co-president of the left group. – madam president, dear family and loved ones of david, dear colleagues, let me start on a more personal note. the ceremony today is very moving because we are not only commemorating our president of the european parliament, david maria sassoli, we are also commemorating a colleague and a friend whose optimism, openness and will for cooperation will be deeply missed. david’s entire work has been based on a deep-rooted, humane perspective on politics and society. as president of this parliament, that many consider the beating heart of european democracy, david set out to strengthen democratic procedures and the rights of the european parliament, and his political ambitions were always driven by the deepest respect for democracy. but he did not do that for the sake of his role or for the sake of this institution alone. he did it first and foremost for european citizens whose voice he wanted to be heard, whose aspirations and demands he wanted to see realised by and through this very parliament. and from the very start of his presidency, he reminded us relentlessly that democracy cannot be taken for granted. and that democracy is under attack every day and that it has to be defended every day. already in his first speech as president, and we saw that earlier today, he expressed his conviction that european integration, european democracy have their roots also in the destruction, devastation of europe caused by nationalism and fascism. european democracy and anti-fascism are two sides, and were two sides for david, of the same coin. this week, the european parliament is about to elect its new leadership. dear colleagues, the best way to commemorate david sassoli is to follow his legacy and to ensure that all democratic voices are heard with the same respect in this institution now and in the future. thank you and farewell david. (applause)
dear presidents, dear loved ones of president sassoli, dear colleagues, i will now interrupt the session so that we continue with our work, but thank you very, very much for being here. have a good evening. (the sitting was suspended at 19.45)
ladies and gentlemen, the house is now in session. and we'll start with the minutes. the minutes and the texts adopted at the meeting of 13, 14, 15 and 16 december 2021 are available here. is there any comment? i don't see any comments. the minutes are therefore approved.
following the appointment of ms schreinemacher as minister for foreign trade and development cooperation of the government of the netherlands, parliament declares the vacancy to be filled with effect from 10 january 2022, in accordance with the rules of procedure. the competent authorities of germany have informed the president that mr malte lenz gallée has been elected as a member of the european parliament to replace mr sven giegold with effect from 22 december 2021. i should like to welcome my new colleague and remind him that he is a member of parliament and of its institutions, enjoying his rights in full in accordance with the rules of procedure.
as you know, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall be electing the president of the european parliament in accordance with the rules of procedure. i would like to remind you that, following the decision of the conference of presidents of 12 january 2022, the elections of the president, vice-presidents and quaestors will be organised in a distance format, in accordance with the instructions and modalities received by all of them by e-mail on 12 january 2022. under rule 15 (1), nominations are submitted, with the agreement of those concerned, by a political group or by a number of members reaching at least the lower threshold. new applications may be submitted before each ballot. the following candidates for the office of president of the european parliament have been nominated in accordance with the relevant provisions of the rules of procedure by the end of the deadline today at 5 p.m.: - the first one is the one that i'm talking about. the applicants confirmed that the applications were submitted with their agreement. tomorrow at 9 a.m. there will be a brief presentation of the applications in our plenary. the first round of voting is scheduled for tomorrow at 9:30. the vote will take place at 10.15 p.m. once the vote is closed, members will no longer be able to exercise their right to vote within that time limit. i would like to remind you of the importance of strictly personal and secret ballot voting for our institution. the instructions for the election of the president were distributed electronically to all members.
the session will resume tomorrow, tuesday 18 january, at 9 a.m., with the presentation of the candidates for the election of the president. this court is adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 8.00 p.m.)
following the decision of the conference of presidents of 12 january 2022, the elections of the president, vice-presidents and quaestors of the european parliament will be organised in a distance format, in accordance with the instructions and modalities received by all of them by e-mail on 12 january 2022. the candidates for the office of president were announced at yesterday's sitting, but i must inform you that mr kosma złotowski has informed the president-in-office that he is withdrawing his candidacy for the office of president. the candidates for the office of president of the european parliament are therefore now: - ♪ i'm the one who's got the power ♪ all candidates confirmed that the applications were submitted with their agreement. before we begin the vote, i would like to give the floor to each candidate for a brief statement. each of you will have five minutes. let's do this in alphabetical order.
mr president, a week ago, we lost a great man: a champion of our europe, a man who put dignity of people above all, the gentle journalist turned politician who, calmly but resolutely, tried to show a sick world the way of solidarity and of service, as one columnist described david sassoli. david fought hard to bring people around the same table. it is that commitment to holding the constructive forces in europe together that i will build on if you give me your trust to serve as your president. this is a house of discussion. i am proud of this parliamentary philosophy and determined to strengthen our debating culture. rabbi sacks once wrote, ‘truth emerges from disagreement and debate. because tolerance means making space for difference. because justice involves audi alteram partem’ – to hear the other side. my appeal is to rediscover the purpose of kohl and mitterrand and leave behind the entrenchments of the past as we look to the future. politics cannot boil down to winners and losers. it is about improving societies and lives, about service, and it is here that our european parliament must truly be a leader. ours is an institution that is unique in the world. we need to strengthen it. we cannot be afraid of reform. the next part of the mandate will see a window of opportunity to make our parliament more modern, more effective and more efficient. we must seize the opportunity to ensure we are able to fulfil our role in representing our citizens, in scrutinising, in investigating, in legislating, with the right of initiative that we have been promised. our parliament is the best example of europe. we are in strasbourg as the symbol of democracy, of reconciliation, of peace, of the power of europe to shape a future of hope. it is not always an easy balance to find, but in our parliament, like in our europe, it is the strength of your arguments that matters, not geography. with your trust, i want to be a president of members who makes full use of all young energies and old wisdoms present in the house to help find solutions to the challenges of our time. it is in this house that we must double down on our commitment to fight climate change and become the world’s first carbon neutral continent. it is here where we must be able to find the way forward on migration, on energy, on digitalisation, on health, on equality, on a new economic model, on defence, on solidarity and social justice. women’s rights cannot be an afterthought. the fight for real equality must go beyond image. it must permeate through everything that we do, and i would be proud to be the president who leads that fight, to honour the legacy of all those who came before. the president of this house must be one who can bring people together. she must be able to help members close the gap between people and european decision—making. ours must be a european parliament that is able to fulfil its role on the global stage. we need to increase our focus on parliamentary democracy and diplomacy. ukraine is under threat. belarus is at boiling point. we also need a president who is accessible, who manages a modern parliament that uses technological opportunities while preserving the solemnity of parliamentary democracy; who understands the reality that meps face. this must be a parliament that has to be open, safe and diverse – a parliament that has the respect that it deserves, where members are free to exercise their mandate. and our president needs to be a consensus-builder who listens, who can bridge the differences and hold the centre. i have been able to do that, working with colleagues and friends from across the aisle on issues where majorities are not easy to find, like migration, the protection of fundamental rights, frontex, fighting corruption, beating racism, championing lgbtqi causes, ending slapp lawsuits, pushing back against discrimination and empowering women and girls. my commitment as president would be to work with meps to give the institutional backing that you request in order to help find a way forward. ours must be a parliament that speaks out strongly, powerfully. our role in holding the commission to account is clear, and we must live up to it. my commitment is that i will not shy away from the difficult decisions and will always, always, represent the views of this house, everywhere. i am a woman from a small island in the middle of europe’s southern sea. i know what it means to be the underdog. i know what it means to be pigeonholed. but i also know how important this is for people beyond this chamber. i know what this means for every girl watching today. i know what it means for everyone who dares, and whoever dared, to dream. so dear friends, i stand before you today to ask for your trust and for your vote to help push our europe forward together to help people believe.
the presentation of the candidates for the office of president is done. it will resume at 9.30 with the opening of the first round of voting. (the sitting was suspended at 9.25 a.m.)
we shall now proceed to the election of the president, in accordance with the provisions of our rules of procedure and the instructions and procedures which have been given to all. i would remind you that, under rule 16 (1) of the rules of procedure, in order to be elected, a candidate must obtain an absolute majority of the votes cast in the first three ballots. blank or null votes shall not be counted as cast. since the vote was by secret ballot, only the names of members who took part in the vote will be recorded in the minutes. i declare the vote open until 10.15 a.m. results will be released at 11:00 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 9.32 a.m.)
i have important information to give to this house of european democracy. the result of the vote for the president of the european parliament is now available and is as follows: blank or null votes 74 votes cast 616 absolute majority 309 the votes were cast as follows: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: ♪ i'm the one who's gonna make you ♪ sir james scott-hopkins (ed). - mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
so, congratulations roberta metsola and, indeed, happy birthday.
the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. i would like to congratulate mrs metsola on her election and wish her every success in her mandate. i invite the new president roberta metsola to take over the presidency of our work.
members of the european parliament, colleagues, europeans. i humbly feel honored by the responsibility you entrust to me. i pledge to work with all my energy in the name of this parliament and for the good of european citizens.
i will honour david sassoli as president by always standing up for europe, for our common values of democracy, dignity, justice, solidarity, equality, rule of law and fundamental rights, for the politics of hope and the promise of the european union. i want people to recapture a sense of belief and enthusiasm for our project. i believe to make our shared space safer, fairer, more just and more equal. dear europeans, in the next years, people across europe will look to our institution for leadership and direction, while others will continue to test the limits of our democratic values and european principles. we must fight back against the anti-eu narrative that takes hold so easily and so quickly. disinformation and misinformation, further amplified during the pandemic, fuel easy cynicism and cheap solutions of nationalism, authoritarianism, protectionism and isolationism. these are a false illusion, offering no solutions – because europe is about precisely the opposite. it is about all of us standing up for one another, bringing our people closer together. it is about all of us defending those principles of our founding mothers and fathers that led us from the ashes of war and holocaust to peace, to hope and to prosperity. honourable members, our house matters. it matters to our judges under attack, to our healthcare frontliners under pressure, to every woman in our union still fighting for her rights, to the vulnerable, to the oppressed and the abused. it matters to those forced to flee natural disasters, to the families of those killed in terror attacks, to our armed forces and law enforcement serving under difficult conditions, to those seeking protection, to our farmers, ngos and entrepreneurs. it matters to our lgbti communities, to those still discriminated against because of their religion, their skin colour or gender identity, to all those who believe in the promise of europe. this house matters, and when people look to us to defend our values, they will find an ally. dear colleagues, my generation sees no old and new europe. we are the first of the erasmus generation and the last of the wałęsa and havel generation. we understand that equality of opportunity is different from making everyone the same. we celebrate differences in europe because we know that is what makes us stronger, what makes us unique, what makes us european. and we know that, if people are to look to europe with confidence, we must burst through the strasbourg and brussels bubble to bring europe, its ideas and its decisions to people in different towns and villages across europe.
'everyone would feel better on our planet if they could hear the loud voice of europe' said valéry giscard d'estaing in his opening speech at the convention on the future of europe in 2002.
already then, the call for a stronger europe existed. we must now ensure that the conference on the future of europe has the support that it needs to ensure concrete outcomes, and especially we must listen to our youth on this year that is dedicated to them. dear fellow europeans, climate change is ravaging our continent and our world. it is no longer a problem for another generation to deal with. if you believe science – and this house does – the question is no longer if, but when. the european green deal and the pledge to be the first carbon—free continent is the right answer. this is not only a necessity and an urgency, but it is also an opportunity for europe to take the lead, to reinvent itself, to ensure growth, sustainability and prosperity, while reducing emissions. we must impress on the rest of the world that the fight against climate change is a common destiny – because tomorrow is too late. and we must continue to show that you cannot decouple the environment and the economy. businesses, from start-ups and smes to larger corporations across our union, require legal certainty, easier access to funding and an innovative spirit and environment in europe. they need less bureaucracy and more chances to take the risks that will see europe once again regain its competitive edge. the recovery and resilience fund will help our investment to relaunch after the pandemic. like the green transition, the digital transformation creates opportunities, and we need to be at the forefront of these changes and steer it – and we will. our european way of open economies and open societies is a model that i am proud of. it is a model that must be given the support to withstand the pressure it comes under. and this is a pressure to look inwards, to erect new barriers, to put up old borders and abandon our shared schengen space – a space we have a duty to complete – or any attempt to discredit our values and principles. konrad adenauer said european unity was a dream of a few. it became a hope for the many, and today it is a necessity for all of us. dear colleagues, the world around us is less friendly than it was a generation ago. the unacceptable attacks on ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity and the dangerous situation in belarus are prime examples of this, and our collective security is a common challenge. for the european union to remain credible and exert its influence globally, we have to remain principled. this is our true strength. for autocrats and despots, the eu is a threat simply by existing. as tarek osman put it so eloquently, ‘europe has, after all, curated the most beautiful, refined way of living humanity has ever known’.
this year marks the 70th anniversary of our presence in strasbourg. a city, a region which geographically acts as a separation of powers and, therefore, offers a democratic guarantee and makes our assembly an incarnate institution, close and accessible, at the service of the citizens. all of this makes it an obvious place for our institution.
europe has a legacy of war, but also of healing. we can put this experience to use in helping efforts to end the separation in the european union’s last divided country – cyprus – under the auspices of the un plan. we can never be truly whole while cyprus remains split. we must also reverse the lost momentum when it comes to our relationship with the western balkans. so dear members, let me clear. to those who seek to destroy europe, know that this house stands against you. to those who attempt to undermine democracy, the rule of law, free speech and fundamental rights, who see women as a target and who deny rights to our lgbtqi citizens, know that this house will never accept it. to those who try to blackmail europe through hybrid attacks, this parliament will not weaken solidarity among members. know that dictators will never divide us. let me say to the families of daphne caruana galizia and ján kuciak, journalists killed for doing their job: your fight for truth and justice is our fight. to the loved ones of olivier dubois, abducted for almost 300 days in mali, i say that his struggle for freedom must become our struggle. friends, europeans, the political model that we developed has led our continent to democracy, prosperity and equality. but if we are now to raise europe to the levels promised to the next generation, we now need to forge something even stronger: something in tune with the times, that motivates a younger, more sceptical audience to believe in europe. and ours must be a parliament that empowers, that is diverse. i know that having the first female president of this house since 1999 matters both inside and outside these rooms, but it must go further. our institution’s commitment to having more diversity, gender equality, guaranteeing women’s rights – all our rights – must be reaffirmed. twenty—two years ago, nicole fontaine was elected – 20 years after simone veil. it will not be another two decades until the next woman is standing here. i know i stand on the shoulders of giants – the shoulders of simone veil, auschwitz inmate 78651, who tore off the shackles of that painful part of our european history to blaze a path through ceilings as the first woman to be european parliament president; the shoulders of the millions of nameless women who endured so much and who fought for us to have the opportunities that they were never afforded; the shoulders of ashling, paulina and all the other women whose lives have already been stolen this year; the shoulders of europe’s displaced and the disappeared, of all those who fought and suffered under totalitarianism and sacrificed everything for europe; on the shoulders of all those who believed, and who believe still. we stand here thanks to them. we stand here for them. europe is back. europe is the future.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union.
thank you, and now we get to work. i will now give the floor to the speakers on behalf of the political groups. i start by inviting manfred weber, chair of the epp group, to take the floor.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. on behalf of your group, the european people's party, i would like to congratulate you on your election as president of the european parliament. and personally, happy birthday to you happy birthday today! i congratulate you and would also like to underline that you have received a strong mandate from this plenary today, you have received strong support. i would also like to thank you on behalf of my group for supporting our candidate from the european people's party. it is a signal that we want to tackle together the next two and a half years until the european elections in 2024 in a spirit of cooperation, in a spirit of delivery, so that our citizens know that we are working together for them on the tasks that our president has just described. we are voting today in roberta metsola for the youngest president of the european parliament in the history of our house. we are electing a president who comes from a very small member state. and we are electing a woman to lead the european parliament. i would like to point out, on behalf of the epp group, that we have now proposed two candidates, ursula von der leyen and roberta metsola, to represent the heads of the european union, because this is important to us, because we have strong women and strong personalities. i wish you the best. yesterday, we had to close a chapter because we were thinking about the death of david sassoli. an important, successful chapter has unfortunately been closed. today we begin a new chapter. it's going to be a good chapter. good day, roberta. your group is proud of you.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, congratulations to you, madam president. it is an important day for this institution, for this house and for those of us who believe that the european project needs dialogue, needs understanding, needs to build bridges with those who think differently, but we want to work for the common good of european citizens: that is what we have been elected to do. i therefore want to stick to the words we spoke yesterday at the memorial service for our dear president david sassoli and ask him to keep that legacy, the legacy of a man, a president, who worked for a europe of greater solidarity, a europe of greater justice, a europe which is close to those who need us most: i am sure that if that is his idea, if he works in that direction, he will have the support of the socialist and democratic group to do so. there is another matter, important for us too. you know, madam president, that today you are no longer a member of parliament from a parliamentary group but the president of this house; today you are the president of all the members of this institution and it is therefore your responsibility - as i am sure you will do - to defend the positions adopted by this house after our debates and our votes: this is democracy, and we need, today more than ever, to defend european democracy. i wish him every success, because the personal successes of his work will be the collective successes of our institution and of our european project.
for the greens/efa group madam president, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament greens/european free alliance , i would like to congratulate you on your election. i want to say, finally! finally, 20 years after nicole fontaine, 40 years after simone veil, a woman at the head of the european parliament! and it is true, manfred, we must admit it: it was the epp that, with ursula von der leyen in the commission and roberta metsola in the european parliament, presented two very high-quality women to lead the european institutions. the epp is often accused of being misogynist or, at any rate, patriarchal. at least you've made some real difference here. and you have to admit it. we may disagree on many things, but we must also give to caesar what is caesar's. madam president, you have many qualities. you certainly have the stature to lead this european parliament. we are obviously aware of our differences. we have heard a lot about the issue of gender equality and women's reproductive rights. we also have our points of agreement - you have been very eloquent in your advocacy for democracy, for the rule of law. perhaps you have not mentioned so much the struggle, which is also yours, for a europe capable of welcoming the asylum seekers who come knocking at its door. we have fought these battles together in the past and we will continue to fight them together. you mentioned in your speech, madam president, something that touched me very much, namely that we are rich in our differences. the motto of the european union is 'unity in diversity'. it is not "unity in diversity". in other words, as you said, our differences are strengths. i therefore think that you will be keen, madam president, to ensure that these differences are respected within this institution. because - and this is perhaps a slightly less dithyrambic note i want to make here - the process which led to your election, madam president, is not a very glorious process for the european parliament. because once again, once again, the essential parameter of the agreement that was made with great difficulty between the groups that supported you, was based on job distributions. and the appetites were so great, and the groups having decided not to eat from each other's plates, these appetites had to be satisfied at the expense of the minority groups in this european parliament. madam president, i know you're a great democrat. democracy is not, cannot be, can never be the rule without the participation of the majority. i would therefore like to say that you could make a strong gesture right away: launch a reform of the rules of procedure and the statute of this parliament and enshrine in our texts respect for the rights of minorities in parliament and the proportional distribution of posts of responsibility. it is not normal, it is not acceptable that majorities, wherever they may be, whether in poland or here in the european parliament, should belittle and marginalise minorities. we are all elected, we all have the same dignity as members of the european parliament and there is no question of some members of the european parliament, some groups in the european parliament being considered as second-class groups. this is a fight we could fight together. there will be many more. but anyway, once again, congratulations and... happy birthday!
in the name of the id group. madam president, happy birthday, congratulations on your election and good luck. he will need it because his task is not easy in itself, but it will not be easy for the next two and a half years for two main reasons. the first is that he obviously has a heavy legacy, that of president sassoli, but i am sure that he will be able to honour it. secondly, because the european institutions will be faced with a very important debate in the coming years: the way out of a pandemic, both in terms of how these institutions work, and in terms of the policy challenges, reforming our rules, looking back, looking at the mistakes that were made, and trying to build a better future, and, of course, managing a situation that is not going to be easy. many gray clouds are looming over the geopolitical future of europe and our allies, so good luck indeed. as for what i expect from you, even after hearing and appreciating your inaugural speech, it is obviously respect for this institution and for all 705 members. you see, mr. lamberts was making a very important point. it is certainly an extraordinary event, in the true sense of the word, that a woman is elected head of this institution. a less important but equally extraordinary event is that i agree with philippe, i think i can fully subscribe to his words: what we expect from those who really believe in this institution is respect for the rights of all, as happens in all democratic parliaments, and i am sure that you will be able to guarantee that in these two and a half years. good work, guys.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to join in the good work and happy birthday wishes, obviously because of the coincidence. we are watching your presidency very closely. we know that in this parliament there is a need to ensure that the words that have been heard in this house yesterday, especially the main one, respect in reports, is a fundamental element in the action and work of this parliament. i am glad that the european parliament has elected a woman today, but i am very glad that this woman is a woman i know and for whom i have no difficulty in expressing my personal appreciation, because i think that she has all the conditions to be able to play this role, thanks to her record, with seriousness and competence. so yes, very good woman, but above all very good woman who has the skills and the abilities to be able to play this role. and i think that is a very important element in our assessment, especially because we will inevitably have - the speeches of all the group leaders confirm this - divergent points of view. each of us could choose in his speech the things we like and emphasize them, ignoring or criticizing the things we do not like. it's not going to be an easy role. we will, however, work to ensure that this role is a guaranteeing role and that our approach, as it has been in the past, will also be an approach to a role open to dialogue in the future, so that this institution can regain its credibility in the interests of the institution itself and also of its role and its action. we are pleased this morning with this result and we look forward to working with you, we are convinced of this, in the interests of this parliament and these institutions for the future. good luck and good work.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, congratulations on your birthday! it's actually a nice coincidence that your birthday and your election fall on the same day. i expect you'll be celebrating twice as much tonight. i am sure that the commission will be able to give you a very constructive answer to your question, and i would like to congratulate you on behalf of my group on your election. the steps you're taking, the lines of tradition you're taking, you've described them yourself, and they're enormous: from the first president of this house, simone veil, a holocaust survivor, to david sassoli, whom we left yesterday, your two predecessors and all those who have gone before have worked to strengthen european integration and european democracy and to prevent it from falling back into destructive nationalism. and you have announced that you will continue on this path. we welcome this, and i am sure that you will also succeed in setting your own accents and shaping your own political agenda. you said that the european parliament should be an open place for the citizens of the european union. we welcome that. you said that there should be open, democratic debates, involving all democratic voices. we welcome that as well. and we are also interested in strengthening this institution in relation to the other european institutions, because this is the directly elected parliament and the voice of the citizens must be heard here and must be reflected in politics accordingly. we have nevertheless taken the liberty of nominating our own candidate today, mrs sira rego, whom i would like to thank very much for her willingness to fight today for the democratic discourse in the sense that we understand it, namely with an open mind, transparency and constructivity. and we have made clear what my group stands for here in the european parliament: we are committed to greater democratization, to a stronger social european union, to the respect of ecological aspects, to the inclusion of feminism on the agenda of this parliament and, yes, to anti-fascism in the spirit of the predecessors whose office you are assuming today. we look forward to constructive cooperation in this direction both in the conference of presidents and in the bureau and in other bodies of this house, and we are very pleased to be able to make things happen together.
thank you very much. thanks to all of you for those kind words and points to be noted and acted upon.
i will give a bit of information about the election of the vice—presidents of the european parliament. i propose that the deadline for the candidatures will be at 12.30 today. the candidatures need to be deposited at the deputy secretary—general’s office, r00.101 in the louise weiss building. they can also be stamped, signed, scanned and sent electronically. (the sitting was suspended at 11.42)
with the agreement of the political groups, i would like to put to the house the following proposal for changes to the draft final agenda for tuesday, today, namely: the election of vice-presidents of parliament, second ballot, originally scheduled for 17 00 to 17. 45, will now be held from 17. 30 to 18. 15, so the results are then announced on the 19th. 00; and the election of vice-presidents of parliament, third ballot, originally scheduled for 19. 00 to 19. 45, will now take place from 19. 30 to 20. 15, and the results are then announced on the 21st. 00.00 hours if no objections are raised, these changes are approved.
the next item on the agenda is the election of the vice-presidents of the european parliament. the election of the vice-presidents of the european parliament will also be organised remotely in accordance with the instructions and modalities received. i hereby inform you that i have received the following candidates: the commission has also received comments from the applicant, the applicant's representative in the european parliament, the european economic and social committee, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the committee of the regions, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the committee of the regions, the committee of the regions, the committee of the regions, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. all candidates have confirmed to me that they accept their candidates. we now proceed to the vote. since the number of candidates exceeds the number of seats to be filled, a secret ballot must be held in accordance with rule 17 (1). i would remind members of the provisions of rule 17 (1) of the rules of procedure, which reads as follows: ' the the vice-presidents shall then be elected by a single vote. those who obtain an absolute majority of the votes cast shall be declared elected on the first ballot, provided that they fill fourteen seats and in the order of the number of votes obtained. if the number of candidates elected is less than the number of seats to be filled, a second ballot shall be held under the same conditions in order to fill the remaining seats. if a third vote is required, a relative majority shall be sufficient for the election of the remaining offices. in the event of a tie, the most senior candidates shall be declared elected. ' the we now move on to the election of vice-presidents by remote electronic voting with secret ballot. there are 14 vice-presidents to be elected, so each member has a maximum of 14 votes. i remind you that a vote is valid only if more than half the available votes have been cast. as there are 14 vice-presidential seats to be filled, you must vote for at least 8 candidates, otherwise your vote will be considered null and void. i would remind you that, in accordance with rule 17 (1), in order to be elected a candidate must obtain - in the first two votes - an absolute majority of the votes cast. empty or void ballots shall not be counted as cast. i declare the vote open until 15. 45; and to then announce the results on the 16th. 30 . (time at which the hearing was adjourned: 15. the 05) other
i would like to announce the results of the election of the vice-presidents, which are as follows: number of voters: 691blank or null position: 11votes cast: 680absolute majority: 341the candidates obtained the following votes: the following table shows the number of samples taken: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: 406 votes heidi hautala: the president of the republic of turkey the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: 169 votes against 454 votesothmar karas: the european union is the world's largest consumer of tobacco. i'm not going to vote for you. 247 votes in favour of the proposal the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, 299 votes pinus picierno: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. 527 votesevelyn regner: the president of the republic of poland 434 votespedro silva pereira: the president of the republic of the philippines the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the year. i'm not going to vote for him. the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. 322 votesthese candidates thus obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast in the order in which they received the result: the commission has also received comments from the applicant, the applicant's representative in the union, the applicant's representative in the united kingdom and the applicant's representative in the united states. i would like to congratulate you, dear colleagues, on your election. that means we still have 5 seats left to fill in the vice-presidential election, so we'll need a second ballot. if there are no comments, i consider the candidates of the first ballot to be valid. since there are no comments, then we will have a second vote, which will begin on the 17th. 30 . (time at which the hearing was adjourned: other
welcome back. the sitting is resumed. we shall now hold the second ballot in the election of the vice-presidents. ms lívia járóka has informed me that she withdraws her candidature for the post of vice—president, and therefore the candidates for the post of vice—president of the european parliament are nicola beer, mara bizzotto, fabio massimo castaldo, heidi hautala, marcel kolaja, dimitrios papadimoulis, michal šimečka and roberts zīle. as there are five seats still to be filled, you can only vote for a maximum of five candidates. may i remind you once again, that the vote is valid only if more than half of the available votes have been cast. so given that there are five seats as vice—president still to be filled, dear colleagues you must vote for at least three candidates, otherwise your vote will be considered null and void. i declare the vote open until 18.15; the announcement of the results will take place at 19.00. (the sitting was suspended at 17.32)
the result of the second ballot in the election of the vice—presidents are as follows. members voting 698blank or void ballots 7votes cast 691 absolute majority 346 the votes were cast as follows. i will read them out: nicola beer 410 votes. mara bizzotto 211 votes fabio massimo castaldo 251 votes. heidi hautala 294 votes marcel kolaja 239 votes dimitrios papadimoulis 329 votes michal šimečka 494 votes roberts zīle 403 votes so that means that the following candidates have obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast: michal šimečka, nicola beer and roberts zīle. congratulations on your election. two seats now remain to be filled in the election of the vice—presidents, and therefore we need a third ballot. unless there are any comments, i take it that the candidates in the second ballot are still standing. i see that there are no comments and therefore the candidates in the second ballot will also stand in the third ballot. (the sitting was suspended at 19.02)
we shall now hold the third ballot in the election of the vice—presidents of this house. marcel kolaja has informed me that he withdraws his candidature, and therefore the candidates for the post of vice—president of the european parliament are mara bizzotto, fabio massimo castaldo, heidi hautala and dimitrios papadimoulis. i should remind you that in the third ballot a relative majority is sufficient for election to the remaining seats. as there are two seats still to be filled, you can only vote for two candidates. may i remind you once again that the vote is valid only if more than half of the available votes have been cast. given that there are two seats of vice—president still to be filled, that means that you must vote for at least two candidates. otherwise, your vote will be considered null and void. in the event of a tie, the oldest candidate will be declared elected. i now declare the vote open until 20.15. (the sitting was suspended at 19.32)
the results of the third ballot in the election of the vice—presidents are as follows: members voting 670blank or void ballots 12votes cast 658 the votes were cast as follows: mara bizzotto 193 votes fabio massimo castaldo 247 votes heidi hautala 384 votes dimitrios papadimoulis 492 votes so, on the basis of this third ballot, i declare dimitrios papadimoulis and heidi hautala elected as vice—presidents of the european parliament and i congratulate you both warmly. in accordance with rule 17(2), the vice—presidents will take precedence in the order in which they were elected and, in the event of a tie, by age. the composition of the new bureau will be notified to the presidents of the institutions of the european union.
for the election of the quaestors of the european parliament, i now propose setting the deadline for candidacies tonight at 22.00. candidacies should be lodged at the deputy secretary-general’s office, r00.101 in the louise weiss building or be printed, signed and scanned to be transmitted electronically.
i will start with an announcement. i have received from the competent authorities of the netherlands notice of the election of ms catharina rinzema to replace ms liesje schreinemacher, with effect from 18 january 2022. parliament takes note of her election. in accordance with rule 3(2) of the rules of procedure, until such time as her credentials have been verified or a ruling has been given on any dispute, ms catharina rinzema shall take her seat in parliament and on its bodies and shall enjoy all the rights attaching thereto, provided that she has previously signed the declaration that she does not hold any office incompatible with that of a member of the european parliament.
the next item is the election of the quaestors of the european parliament. the elections of the quaestors will also be organised in a remote format in accordance with the instructions and the modalities that you have all received. i have received the following candidacies: monika beňová, christophe hansen, karol karski, fabienne keller, marcel kolaja and anne sander. the candidates have confirmed to me their consent to the candidacies. since the number of candidates exceeds the number of seats to be filled, we shall hold a secret ballot in accordance with rule 15(1). i remind you that, in accordance with rule 18, parliament shall elect five quaestors by the same procedure that we used for the election of the vice—presidents yesterday. we shall now hold the election by means of a secret remote vote. there are five quaestors, as i just said, to be elected, so each member has a maximum of five votes. that means that the vote is only valid if more than half of the votes available have been cast. so, given the fact that there are five seats as quaestors to be filled, you must vote for at least three candidates. otherwise, your vote will be considered null and void. blank or void ballots will not be regarded as votes cast. i declare the vote open until 9.45. good luck to all the candidates. the announcement of the results will take place at 11.00. thanks a lot. (the sitting was suspended at 9.04)
i have received the results of the vote on the election of quaestors. the results are as follows. number of members voting: 688. blank or void votes: 12. votes cast: 676. the absolute majority needed, therefore, for election in this round is 339. the votes were cast as follows: monika beňová: 487 votes christophe hansen: 576 votes karol karski: 321 votes fabienne keller: 479 votes marcel kolaja: 277 votes anne sander: 622 votes congratulations, therefore, to the following candidates who have obtained an absolute majority: anne sander, christophe hansen, monika beňová and fabienne keller. that means that there is one seat that remains to be filled for the election of quaestors and, therefore, we need to have a second ballot. unless there are any comments, i take it that the remaining candidates in the first ballot are still standing and will still stand. ok, i see that there are no comments in this regard. therefore, the second ballot will take place at 14.30 this afternoon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.05)
i have a few announcements. i was informed that no objections have been raised in the conference of committee chairs to the recommendations by the agri committee not to oppose two delegated acts, pursuant to rule 111(6) of the rules of procedure. the recommendations are available on the plenary webpage. if no objections are raised by a political group or members reaching at least the low threshold within 24 hours following this announcement, the recommendations shall be deemed to have been approved; otherwise, they will be put to the vote.
i would also like to inform that, since the adjournment of parliament’s session on 15 december, the president, together with the president of the council, has signed one act adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules of procedure. the title of the act will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents by written procedure on 14 january pursuant to rule 157 has been distributed. i would also like to put to the house the following proposal for changes to the final draft agenda with the consensus of the political groups: today, wednesday, there will be an election of the quaestors of parliament. this second ballot will be held from 14.30 until 15.15, and the results will be announced at 16.00. the debates this afternoon will start at 15.00 instead of 14.30. due to the impossibility for the president of the european council to be present today, the debate on the european council and commission statements on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 16—17 december 2021 is cancelled. as a consequence, therefore, the debates will start with the report by ms schaldemose on the digital services act. a voting session will take also place tonight from 18.00 until 19.15. the announcement of the results will be held tomorrow at 9.00. if there are no objections, these changes are deemed approved and we can proceed.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the presentation of the programme of activities of the french presidency (2022/3022(rsp)).
mr president of the french republic, we are pleased to have you in our chamber of the european parliament in strasbourg today for the second time this week, albeit under different circumstances, and i would like to once again have a thought for president david sassoli this morning. since 1 january, france has held the presidency of the council of the european union. a presidency with a sovereign europe agenda is essential, as we face multiple challenges - health and economic challenges, migration challenges, climate challenges. mr president of the republic, you can count on this european parliament to provide answers to these challenges, to affirm and defend our values, while hostile powers deploy all their forces to diminish what we are: an area of peace, freedom and prosperity. you can count on this parliament to help you make a success of the french presidency of the council of the european union. mr president, you have the floor and welcome.
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-presidents of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament. madam president, allow me to begin by congratulating you on your election. as you said, we all have a thought this morning for your predecessor, david sassoli, who, like all of you, believed in our europe, a europe supported by the values that hold us together and unite us. this europe is built on a model which is unique in the world in its balance between freedom and solidarity, tradition and progress; i am convinced that the european parliament has a duty to uphold the principles of the european union, and i am convinced that the european parliament has a duty to uphold the principles of the european union, and i am convinced that the european parliament has a duty to uphold the principles of the european union. this is the europe that has held the bar steady during the pandemic, whether it's vaccines or economic recovery. i am extremely pleased and honoured to be speaking to you today at the beginning of the french presidency and i would simply like to share some of my convictions with you. i will not go into all the issues - i think we will come back to them in the questions - but i would like to share some of the basic convictions that underpin our common agenda and our common action. the europe i have just spoken of, our european construction, is based on three great promises: a promise of democracy, which was born on our continent, which has been reinvented, re-founded on our continent and revived in the last 70 years; a promise of progress shared by all; and a promise of peace. europe has kept its promises for seven decades. but the moment we are living in, with the return of the tragic, of history and of some geographical evidences, the current upheaval we are experiencing, is shaking up these three promises. i think the challenge for us is to try to respond to them - not just in the coming months - but basically, the task for us and probably for our generation is to respond in depth to the refounding of these promises. i said that it was a promise of democracy, and that is what makes us europeans unique. i want to say that the french presidency will be a presidency that promotes the values that make us who, perhaps because they are taken for granted, have become weaker in recent years. we are the generation that is rediscovering the precariousness of the rule of law and democratic values. first, liberal democracy in the political sense of the term. in recent years, it has been said that this regime, which europe has invented, has become tired, incapable of facing the great challenges of the century. however, i want to say here how much the last few months have shown: that the management of the pandemic by democracies, with parliamentary debates, with a free press, with free and open research systems and academic systems, has led to decisions that are much more protective of lives and economies than those of authoritarian regimes. in concrete terms, we all demonstrated the opposite of a commonly held view that was taking hold. that is why we will be at the meeting of the fight for liberal democracy, the fight to defend our electoral processes from attempts of foreign interference, the fight to continue advancing the sovereignty of the peoples. in this respect, we will have work which, by spring, will continue to progress in the context of the conference on the future of europe and, if the latter makes the recommendation, the french presidency will carry with germany the coalition agreement has been very clear on these terms the right of legislative initiative for your parliament. (applause) i would like to thank fight also for the rule of law, for this simple idea that it is universal human rights that must be protected from the fevers of history and its leaders. today, there are voices calling for a return to our major fundamental texts, which were decided on sovereignly by the member states when they joined. but what about? on the equality of men in dignity and rights? on the right of everyone to a fair trial by an independent judiciary? and it's basically an idea that to be more effective, we should go back to the rule of law, confusing the legitimate choice of any elected government to change the rule of law. but let us consider that we all have to be part of this rule of law, which is essential for our europe, whose principles have been built by our history and are the fruit of our common commitments. the end of the rule of law is the reign of arbitrariness. the end of the rule of law is the sign of a return to authoritarian regimes, to the stammering of our history. yes, behind all this, there is an ideological struggle. this struggle is being waged by several authoritarian powers on our borders, and it is returning: in several of our countries we are witnessing this revolution at work, which is undermining the very foundations of our history. where tolerance and civility were at the heart of the process of civilization that is ours, there is an idea that is being reborn among our peoples. we will therefore do our utmost to work towards this and to ensure that, through dialogue, we can always, but without weakness, defend the strength of this rule of law in all known situations. i say: in dialogue, because it is not a question of allowing the idea to take root that the rule of law is basically an invention of brussels, whose only depository is brussels, which is a discourse we hear being born in some capitals. no, it's the fruit of our stories. the very struggle of the revolutions to free themselves from the yoke of totalitarianism during the last century. rule of law is our treasure. it is a matter of convincing people who have distanced themselves from it again, and it is a matter of convincing them again, with great respect and in a spirit of dialogue. to speak of this european democratic singularity is of course also to give strength to this new struggle. in this spirit, i hope that we will consolidate our values as europeans, which make us united, proud and strong. twenty years after the proclamation of our charter of fundamental rights, which included the abolition of the death penalty throughout the union, i hope that we can update this charter, in particular to be more explicit on the protection of the environment or the recognition of the right to abortion. (applause) let us open this debate freely, with our fellow citizens, with a high european conscience, to breathe new life into our foundation of rights which is forging this europe strong in its values, which is the only future of our common political project. this singularity i am talking about is also a reference to the solidarity unique in the world. our societies have this peculiarity that they have invented with the welfare state a system of protection for everyone against the risks of existence. this is a legacy of our european democracies and this pandemic has shown that solidarity, far from being a weakness, is an incomparable strength. it is solidarity that has enabled us over the last two years to save lives, to protect jobs. it is solidarity that has made it possible for us europeans to have a vaccine. it is this spirit of solidarity that has led us, as europeans, to be the most open in the world, both in terms of exports and donations. i hope that this french presidency can continue this work with you, that it can take strong action to offer all qualified, better paid, quality jobs with a decent minimum wage for all. to reduce the gender pay gap. to create new rights for workers on digital platforms. to introduce quotas for women on company boards. to fight against all discrimination. the progress i have just mentioned is not just words or promises. these are texts which will be collectively in our hands in the coming weeks and which i hope we can put into practice during this semester. we have the means. let's do this what holds us together, and what makes this democratic european promise unique, is also a culture of its own and, in the end, an art of being in the world, i would venture to say. what does it mean to be european? it is to feel an equal emotion in front of our treasures, the fruit of our heritage and history, from the pnyx hill to the golden bulbs of krakow. it is to vibrate in the same way with the romantic spirit, with the works of chopin and the texts of pessoa. it is also, together, to have a civility, a way of being in the world, from our cafes to our museums, that is incomparable. this art of being in the european world is part of our uniqueness with so many differences! but we are, from ancient greece to the roman empire, from christianity to the renaissance and the enlightenment, the heirs of a singular way of thinking about the human adventure. i hope that we can continue to promote together this european civilisation of universalism, a respected culture and a common project which respects the uniqueness and identity of each individual. that is why we have proposed to bring together our best historians, our greatest intellectuals, precisely to build together the legacy of this common history from which we come. this is the first priority for me in fulfilling this democratic promise: to make europe 'again' - and i will not go into all the other issues we will have to work on together in this respect in the next six months - to make europe a democratic, cultural and educational power proud of itself to meet this challenge. the second promise i was talking about is the promise of progress. europe has never thought of itself as preserving the status quo, as living in comfort. we have built ourselves on the desire to build economic growth, a model for the future, with the possibility of our working and middle classes being able to derive all the benefits of this progress. in recent years, that promise has been undermined. growing inequalities, deindustrialisation, and new challenges, especially the climate and digital challenges, have brought our continent to the brink of doubt. the challenge for us is therefore to build an original model to meet the great challenges of the century, a model for the future which will enable us once again to live up to this promise of progress. climate is the first of these challenges. europe is the place where a global climate awareness was born in paris in 2015. it is the continent that, with the objective of carbon neutrality by 2050, has set itself the most ambitious targets on the planet. now we have to move from intention to action. transforming our industries, investing in the technologies of the future, whether batteries or hydrogen: this is the ambition of the pact. the commission has made strong proposals and we will now have to implement many of them together in the coming weeks. to encourage all actors, at home and around the world, to respond to the ecological requirement. this is the very meaning, in particular, of the carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders that we have been waiting for for years. this is also the meaning of the mirror measures in the trade agreements that we are advocating. this is also the meaning of the negotiation to adopt the first law in the world against imported deforestation. in the coming weeks we will have to take important decisions, including on these few key issues in our strategy. we'll have to deploy them nationally. we will also have to bring our objectives and the reconciliation of our objectives in the fight against biodiversity and against global warming and climate change. as such, we will have an important summit for the oceans in february where several member states, the commission and several of us will have an important strategy to present, because we are a great maritime power and we have an agenda to defend here too, in terms of biodiversity. the second challenge of the century is the digital revolution. it is not we europeans who believe most in the dissemination of knowledge, we who invented the figure of the honest man who drinks humanity, who are going to reject this extraordinary movement. and the challenge that we face is twofold. the first is to build a genuine digital single market to create european champions. it is an investment in new technologies, it is an investment in new sectors, as the commission has repeatedly proposed. it is the consolidation of a europe that knows how to finance its champions and of a europe that also knows how to simplify its law in order to build a genuine single market, that is to say a domestic market of giant size. at the same time, it is a europe that knows how to guide digital actors precisely to preserve this spirit of the enlightenment, that is, to protect our rights, our freedoms, respect for our privacy, and to fight against hate speech and divisiveness. that is why, with you, members of parliament, we will have important texts to complete, texts on digital services on which you will vote tomorrow, and the next few months may be those of the emergence of a european digital model which, at the same time, organises fair competition between actors and fights the tendency of the platforms to kill innovation, as it protects citizens. the two major texts, among others, that we will have to build are those that will allow us to protect economically the digital actors and others against these sometimes disloyal champions, but also to protect our citizens and the democratic debate from manipulation, from hate speech without responsibility in the end, against which we must put in place these new regulations. the third challenge is, of course, our security. this promise of future progress is only valid if, in the face of geopolitical turmoil, the threat of terrorism, cyberattacks, irregular migration, these great times of upheaval, we know how to respond. and in the face of this tragic return to history, europe must arm itself, not out of defiance of other powers, no, but to ensure its independence in this world of violence, not to be subject to the choice of others, to be free. first, to regain control of our borders and our space. we have made a lot of progress with the ongoing strengthening of frontex and the french presidency will bring about a reform of the schengen area which is the condition for fulfilling its original promise of an area of free movement. protect our external borders, including by developing an intergovernmental rapid reaction force. act of shared and solidarity reception between member states, as we did between 2018 and 2021. building partnerships with countries of origin and transit to tackle smuggling networks and make our return policy effective. building a more effective policy, but one that respects our principles, to combat illegal immigration. finally, in the field of defence, we cannot be satisfied with simply responding to international crises. we need a power of anticipation that organizes the safety of our environment. considerable advances, unprecedented in our history, have taken place in recent years. during this six-month period, we will have to make considerable progress with the adoption of the strategic compass, launched under the german presidency, with the definition of our own security doctrine, in complementarity with nato, and also with a real strategy on the defence industry and technological independence, without which this europe of defence has no meaning and no reality. as you have understood, the aim of this agenda is to find together a europe that is a power of the future, that is to say, a europe capable of responding to the climate, technological and digital challenges, but also geopolitical ones, an independent europe in that it still gives itself the means to decide for itself its future and not to depend on the choices of the other great powers. i was referring to the promise of peace. our europe today is facing an escalation of tensions, particularly in our neighbourhood, a disorder in the world, a return, as i said earlier, to the tragic nature of war. but our model, which goes beyond our borders and cultivates a universal vocation in the tradition of our founding fathers, now has a responsibility to rethink some of these neighbourhood policies and to rethink this place in the world in order to build a true power of balance, because i believe that this is the vocation of our europe. europe thus has a duty to propose a new alliance to the african continent. the destinies of the two shores of the mediterranean are intertwined and we cannot properly address the subject of migration without addressing its root causes and discussing the common destiny with the african continent. it is in africa that part of the upheaval in the world is taking place and part of the future of this continent and its youth, but also our future. we have therefore, together with charles michel and ursula von der leyen, expressed the wish that we could hold a summit in february to re-establish our partnership with the african continent. we will help our african friends in the face of the pandemic 700 million doses will have been distributed by june 2022 , but we will have to take a new step in the coming months, reinventing a new alliance with the continent. firstly, through an economic and financial new deal with africa, which must build on what we built last may, when europe proposed, defended and acted on the issue of special drawing rights to the imf and the reallocation of our rights, but with very concrete investment proposals. second, with an education, health and climate agenda for the development of the continent and the hope of african youth. thirdly, with a security agenda through european support for african states facing the rise of terrorism, as we have been able to do together in the sahel. finally, by combating illegal immigration and smuggling networks, to better promote movements linked to cultural, academic and economic alliances. secondly, europe cannot continue to turn its back on the western balkans. the western balkans are, by their geography as well as their history, by the tragic part of them and by the promise of the future they hold, at the heart of the european continent. they bear scars that remind us both of the fragility of peace and the strength of our union. that is why we are called upon today to rethink our relationship with the western balkan countries and to present them with a clearer, more readable and more voluntary approach, with genuine prospects for accession. we are not against membership to repel attempts at destabilization by foreign powers at the present time, but we are for it, with a projected membership within a reasonable time. we have modernised the negotiating procedure in recent months, but we also know very well that it is not the europe of today, with its rules of operation, which can become a europe of 31, 32 or 33. that's not true. we'd be lying to ourselves. we must therefore, in the context of the conference and the results of next may, rethink our rules in depth to make them clearer, more readable, to be able to decide faster and more forcefully, but also politically to be sincere about the framework of this europe in which the western balkans have their place. we must therefore reinvent both the rules of operation and the geography of our europe. the conference on the future of europe should therefore be followed by a conference on the western balkans, which will be held immediately afterwards, and which will provide an opportunity to address this crucial issue. thirdly, europe and the united kingdom must also return to the path of trust. i shall not, in view of the time allotted to me - i shall conclude in a moment - go into more detail on this subject. nothing will ever jeopardise the bond of friendship that binds us to the british people. our partnership in the defence of liberal democracy, freedom, economic and social progress is too deep-rooted, too old. but continuing this common path after brexit requires that the british government commits itself in good faith to respecting the agreements reached with our union and that we make clear that we respect the commitments made, whether it is the implementation of the protocol on northern ireland or the rights of our fishermen, as will be the inevitable subject of future discussions. let us be firm and clear so that the commitments made are kept. that's the only way to be friends. europe must finally build a collective security order on our continent. the security of our continent requires a strategic rearmament of our europe as a force for peace and balance, particularly in the dialogue with russia. i have been advocating this dialogue for several years. it is not an option because both our history and our geography are stubborn. both for ourselves and for russia, for the security of our continent which is indivisible, we need this dialogue. we europeans must collectively set our own demands and be able to enforce them. a frank and demanding dialogue in the face of destabilization, interference and manipulation. what we need to build is a european order based on principles and rules to which we have adhered and which we have acted, not against or without, but with russia now 30 years ago and which i want to recall here: the rejection of the use of force, of the threat, of coercion, the free choice for states to participate in the organizations, alliances, security arrangements of their choice, the inviolability of borders, the territorial integrity of states, the rejection of spheres of influence. what i am talking about are the principles that we europeans and russia signed 30 years ago. it is up to us europeans to defend these principles and rights inherent in the sovereignty of states; it is up to us to reaffirm its value and to punish effectively any violation. sovereignty is freedom, it is at the heart of our european project, it is also a response to the destabilizations at work on our continent. that is why we will continue with germany, in the framework of the normandy format, to seek a political solution to the conflict in ukraine, which remains the root cause of the current tensions, and your collective support is needed to support our efforts. that is why we will also ensure that europe has a strong and unique voice on the issue of strategic arms, conventional arms control, transparency of military activities and respect for the sovereignty of all european states, whatever their history. the next few weeks must lead us to a european proposal for a new order of security and stability. we must build it among europeans, then share it with our nato allies and then offer it to russia for negotiation. ladies and gentlemen, i was born in 1977 and my youth was marked by the european spirit. in the bloody north of france where i grew up, europe was peace, as it were, intangible. i then experienced, as many of you here did, the great european doubt, the 2005 referendum, the technocratic accusation, the risk of dislocation in the face of the sovereign debt crisis. our generations today have to rebuild our europe to meet its promises of living democracy, progress and peace. we must collectively give ourselves the means to make our europe a democratic, cultural and educational power, a power for the future, a power of balance. to do this, we will have a number of essential texts in the coming weeks and months and i look forward to working closely and harmoniously with the european parliament, taking into account all these texts and shared ambitions. together, in the face of the tyranny of anecdote and the divisions between europeans, we must recover the sense of unity, the taste for long hours, the need for audacity, the sense of what robert schuman called the creative efforts - neither the invincibility, nor the divisions, nor the prohibitions, nor the facilities - these creative efforts have made our europe. this means that neither the policies of yesterday nor those of before the crisis, nor the formats of yesterday nor those of before the crisis, nor the past reflexes, nor the return to nationalism, nor the dissolution of our identities will be the answers to this world that is coming. but our ability to invent a possible dream, to make it tangible, to make it real, to make it useful to our fellow citizens is the key to our success. we have the strength, we have the means. that's why i'm confident in us. thank you.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, mr president of the republic, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to open this important debate under the new presidency of this house. once again, congratulations, my dear roberta. i know that president von der leyen deeply regrets not being able to be present in person which reminds us once again that the covid-19 pandemic is still very much present in our lives. but i am sure she shares my feeling today: i am glad that europe can rely on the experience and wisdom of france. in the coming months, we will have to join forces at a crucial moment in our history. the french presidency is starting in a geopolitical context of uncertainty. mr president has just talked about it, and indeed you only need to look at our immediate neighbourhood. there is just that short plane ride away, a couple of hours, where the security architecture of our continent is being challenged. we see old failed ideas re-emerging of power bloc competition, of spheres of influence, and we europeans are resolutely opposed to entire countries being once again treated so disdainfully as mere backyards. we categorically reject the threat of use of force, one of the fundamental principles underpinning european security, as enshrined in the helsinki final act. and we stand ready to take action if necessary, and we have made clear any further military aggression against ukraine will have massive consequences and severe costs. at the same time, we welcome the recent diplomatic activity from the us-russia talks, to the nato-russia council and the osce meeting, and the commission remains in close contact with the us administration. we europeans will do everything in our power to protect and nurture our model of peaceful democratic governance and its central tenets of dialogue and diplomacy. we will strengthen it from within and protect it against outside threats, from cyber attacks to hybrid threats, such as we have seen recently on the border with belarus. for this, two projects will be particularly important in the coming months. with a strategic compass our new european white paper on defence we will set out our common strategic vision, while with the defence package we aim to strengthen our capabilities. and i know how my colleague, high representative and vice-president josep borrell is working closely with minister le drian and all the ministers of foreign affairs and defence in that respect. president macron just made very important remarks on the importance of the eu-africa summit, also we in the commission are looking at this occasion as the possibility of a new beginning, the new opening, a new start in this very important strategic relationship. we very much appreciate your remarks on the western balkans because they and rightfully so should be on the top of our priority lists. and we will, of course, listen very carefully about your wise words on our relationship with the united kingdom. the united kingdom, they are our neighbours, our allies, and i think all of us in this house would like to see them again as our strategic partners. for that to happen, we need to rebuild the trust, and trust is being built through respecting the agreements. the agreements which we recently signed and ratified, be it on withdrawal, be it on trade and cooperation, or be it proper implementation of the protocol on ireland and northern ireland. and we on the side of the european union, on the side of the commission, will show all the flexibility, all the goodwill to make this happen. but we need a good partner on the other side. mr president, you have been highlighting how important our unity and cooperation in the world is, and i am very glad that the french presidency is going to focus on all the important priorities, because the world around us is indeed becoming more unpredictable and europeans rightly expect us to protect that. honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, the need to focus on the threats of today and the challenges of tomorrow is, of course, also true for the europeans' economy. despite the pandemic, we have already embarked on the modernization of the economy and society towards a more sustainable way of living and working, a way of living that preserves both the health of the planet and the livelihoods of our people. that is our economic growth model for the next 10 years and beyond. we have already built a solid foundation for this through next generation eu. with its eur 800-billion recovery programme we are not only investing to finally put the pandemic behind us, we are also investing in our sustainable and digital future. we are tackling the structural challenges of our economies while ensuring that everyone can benefit from this future - large companies, as well as our small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers as well as low income households - and the early success of our approach is already proving us right. studies show that thanks to next generation eu growth in europe is 1.5% higher than it would have been with a national recovery programme alone. at the same time, our new growth model must guarantee europe's technological, economic and political sovereignty. it must also enable our businesses and our single market to take full advantage of the new opportunities. that is why we want to bring back the technology to make the smallest semiconductors on the planet here in europe. this is exactly what we are going to do with the european legislation on semiconductors that we will be presenting in the coming weeks. just as they power computers all over the world, these chips are at the heart of the global technology race. without them, there is no digital. i know that my colleagues, executive vice-president vestager and commissioner breton, who are also here with us today, will agree with me on this. i am delighted that france is making strategic independence and supply chain resilience a priority of its presidency. in an increasingly complex geopolitical world, where competition is reaching new frontiers, we must forge our own destiny while fostering a long-term vision and prioritising strategy over tactics. i am also thinking of our digital markets act and digital services act. these are the pillars of the european digital strategy and we want to limit the power of the internet giants, so that competition remains fair, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are the drivers of innovation here in europe, pay their taxes and assume their social responsibilities. ladies and gentlemen, simone veil had no doubt that a union of democracies is the most powerful and resilient form of government possible. in the coming months of the french presidency, we will work hard to bring our union even closer to the europe it envisioned. united we will overcome the pandemic and deliver sustainable growth. united, we will defend our values and strengthen our security, and united we will work for the benefit of all europeans each and every day. and this is exactly what such a great european as david sassoli would like us to do.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madame president, roberta – that sounds good. i would like to welcome and thank mr president for his speech. france is ready and, after your speech, i’m sure that europe will be in good hands in the next six months. the priorities are well set. if i may say, from an epp point of view, i hear defence, i see industry policy and i see jobs. your presidency will even organise a conference on the fight against cancer, from what i saw. many epp priorities are therefore present, and that’s why you can count on the biggest political family in the european union to deliver on these issues. we need progress in europe. i want to focus, in my contribution today, on more general considerations. my first consideration is ‘no more words, we need actions now in europe’. we listened to your sorbonne speech, in essence. you had a great speech here in 2018, in this house, and that was also the case today. we hear a lot about a vision for europe, about sovereignty, about a stronger europe. i deeply believe in what you say in this perspective for europe. but in the last five years, is europe really more sovereign than before? every six months we welcome here in this chamber a new presidency: angela merkel was here, prime minister janša, prime minister costa. for prime ministers, it is probably interesting to be here and to present ideas on european stage. for us, it is a kind of a routine, and sometimes i even must say kind of a boring routine, because we hear the same on the big things on the agenda every six months. that’s why the question is: can we speed up? i give you a few considerations, a few examples of this. for years, we have known about putin’s behaviour. he threatens us. he wants to go to war against ukraine. he wants to build up an empire, an empire of oligarchs against our idea of freedom. the european council, let’s be frank, is not capable today of making a firm stand with today’s world on the table. nord stream 2 – in my opinion – must be stopped if there is a military escalation in ukraine. what is going on in council? after afghanistan and ukraine, it’s obvious that we now need someone in the council who goes to the council and tells them we have to stop unanimous votes on foreign affairs issues. who will do so? take rule of law as another example. i voted personally here, in this house, in favour of an article 7 procedure against hungary. my party today is – in slovakia, in the czech republic and in poland with donald tusk – the frontrunner for rule of law and for a pro—european approach. that is the epp today. on the other hand, i see that the article 7 procedure is not even on the table of the council. you do press statements among leaders, but when viktor orbán and you are sitting together, you are not ready to talk about this. let’s be clear on the question of voting. you are even obliged to vote now on the article 7 procedure on council, but nothing is happening. we fought, as parliament, for a binding rule of law mechanism, and the commission will do what we asked them to do, but the council is not capable of delivering. there are two examples of what i mean when i say that we need actions now, and no more words. that is what europe needs. i would add another point, the second consideration. you have to consider that, in the western democracies, you see more and more splits. a real big question for us is: how can we keep our societies together? cities against rural areas, young generation against an ageing continent, vaccinated people against unvaccinated people. i try also to explain this on an example. the ‘yellow vests’ are not only a french phenomenon. yes, we are committed to the fight against climate change, but when we discuss the issues of the ‘green deal’ in the next two years, we have to take care about the poor. energy poverty is unacceptable for us in europe. higher energy costs will also bring high inflation, and that will also be a problem for the poor in our societies. that’s why we have to put this subject at the centre of the debate about the ‘green deal’. otherwise, populism will grow and the transition will fail. that’s why the epp will take care of this. allow me to add a final point, a more general consideration again on this splitting up, about the political concept. you know that i am a christian democrat. my party, as the epp, are ‘bridge builders’ by definition. in some of your contributions in the past, i understood that you are increasingly separating progressives and populists to create this split in our society. this is not healthy in the long run. it’s good to have competition in the centre of the landscape, between different political ideas among democrats, and not creating the split towards the populists. probably, with this approach, we’ll make the populists even bigger than they are. that’s why i’m happy, as an epp politician, that with valérie pécresse we now have real competition in the centre of the landscape. i’m happy about this, and maybe let’s see about the french voters. the french voters will also make gender balance a reality as they vote the first time for a french female pro—european candidate. so that is allowed, if i may say this as a party politician, mr president, but i really like your ambitious approach for europe, and especially the support for this chamber. 210 million people voted in 2019 for this parliament. the second biggest democracy in the world is europe. to strengthen this institution, and to show that the decisions of the future are made in this institution, is something we all believe in. we count on you to turn the outcome of the conference for the future of europe into reality. mr macron, mr president, welcome! time is running out; let’s keep europe united! no more words, let’s practice actions!
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, mr president macron, welcome to the european parliament. this rotating presidency of the council comes at a time when the pandemic has enabled the union to take historic steps in advancing the integration project. in his new year's speech he promised a change of course in 2022 to achieve a europe powerful in the world, fully sovereign, free in its choices and in command of its destiny. europe will only be powerful in the world if it is able to eradicate poverty and inequalities. european democracy needs the building of a social europe that will curb the most harmful instincts of far-right populism. we must complete the reforms on the table, such as the establishment of minimum wages throughout the european union, the regulation of the working conditions of workers on the platforms, the creation of a living wage or the launching of the social climate fund. our power in the world will also depend on whether we are able to live in equality. it unblocks the anti-discrimination directive, supports the gender violence directive and pushes for the agreements needed to end the pay gap and break the glass ceiling that limits women's presence on boards. europe will have no future if it ignores the millions of women who make up half its population. nor will there be a present or a future if we do not defend the only instrument capable of protecting the values that unite us: the rule of law. we must apply the conditionality mechanism and maintain the commitment not to approve the recovery plans for poland and hungary until their governments return to the path of democracy and comply with the judgments of the court of justice. a strong europe will be one that leads a more just and sustainable energy transition, avoiding catastrophic climate change. we are aware of the special circumstances of france or germany, but the commission's proposal on nuclear energy and gas cannot undermine our world leadership in renewable energy, the only green energy. frankly, france must exercise strong leadership that takes advantage of the european response pattern that has been created during the pandemic. together - and we did it together - we put in place an ambitious recovery plan, the most ambitious in the union's history, with over 750 billion backed by a joint debt. now we must prevent a premature adjustment that kills growth. austerity hurt the poorest and enriched the richest. we need a reform of tax rules that fosters fair growth and supports the public investment needed to drive the policies and priorities that we are setting out today from the european union, such as the green transition and the digital transition. the time has come for the europe of defence to step on the gas. the withdrawal from afghanistan, aukus and the crises with russia and belarus must serve us to accept the development of strategic sovereignty. but the european union cannot grow within a fortress, but through solidarity with the world. this parliament is still waiting for the council to agree on the only possible instrument to prevent the death of human beings at our borders: a pact on migration based on solidarity. mr macron, your presidency will not go down in history for its great oratorical gifts, but for the set of laws that together we are able to bring forward. the times we live in demand that we take a great leap forward and therefore we also need to be aware that the motto of your presidency ends with the feeling of belonging. and that's how i want to end. belonging requires popular conviction. put young people and the most vulnerable at the heart of your presidency and you will never again be asked to remove the european flag from the arc de triomphe in paris. i am extending my hand to this house because the social democratic family also wants every citizen to feel the thrill of seeing the european blue illuminating the monuments of the towns and cities of our union. as jean monnet taught us, 'we do not unite states, we unite people'.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr president of the republic, you have undoubtedly made a fine speech. everything was there: economic sovereignty, european values, the project of civilization, even the climate and biodiversity. except that, mr president of the republic, you have been president of france for five years and, as such, you are the accountant of a balance sheet, a balance sheet for france and a balance sheet for europe. we all know that global warming is the greatest challenge facing humanity today. mega-fires, floods, droughts, heat waves... all over the planet, all over europe, we are being hit by our very conditions of existence. but fighting for the climate is not just a survival imperative. if europe decides to do so, this can be an extraordinary opportunity to give our economy a new meaning, to innovate, to create quality jobs, to develop our territories in a sustainable way, to rebuild a just, supportive, caring and democratic society. this is the path we ecologists have chosen. you are following another path, mr president, that of a climate-killing alliance with poland and hungary. you are promoting gas to save a nuclear power plant that is about to go bankrupt and you are sacrificing europe's climate ambition in the process. you will go down in history, mr. president of the republic, as the president of climate action. because deep down, you're a weatherman. you'd rather sign armistice deals with the lobbyists than fight the war on climate change. you prefer to procrastinate, like meryl streep in the film don't look up, to postpone, to give up, to fantasize about solutions in 10, 15 or 20 years rather than decree, as we want to do, general mobilization. this general mobilization is what the youth are waiting for. the youth so terrified of the ecological catastrophe. and yet, this youth is so strong with their creativity, their inventiveness, their diversity and their commitment to climate and social justice. mr president, you were right to say that europe is a project of civilisation that has never been completed, and that is the meaning of civilisation, a project of peace, a project of fundamental freedom, a project of human rights and democracy. so why, almost exactly one year ago, were you celebrating the investment agreement with china, endangering our businesses in the face of china's predatory appetite? you were celebrating this agreement when the chinese regime was bloodily repressing the protesters in hong kong, when the chinese regime was perpetrating, and continues to perpetrate, genocide against the uighurs. six years ago, mr president, six years ago - and you were so right - you praised angela merkel's courage in welcoming syrian refugees. as you know, on 24 november last, 27 migrants drowned in the english channel, joining the thousands of dead who are drowning at our borders. among the victims was mariam. mariam is a 24-year-old kurdish girl, an iraqi kurd, one of those kurds who fought so bravely against the islamic state that the west abandoned her. this kurd, mariam, was joining her fiancé. she was driven only by the desire to live and to love. she drowned. so why, mr president, do you decide every day in calais to tear down the tents, to humiliate these survivors, to mistreat them, to condemn them to despair? mr president, stop listening to the smoky and nauseating theories of the 'great replacement'. you deal with the scientific reality of global warming. in fact, as you have understood, mr president, we have a fundamental difference of opinion on the europe we want. our europe will never be yours, the europe of climate denial, of glyphosate, of the unimpeded movement of goods, services and finance, of walls, barbed wire, lookout points and humiliation for women and men. our europe will never be the one that gives in, in this very chamber, on the right to abortion, with your liberals, with the socialists, the conservatives and the far right! our europe will always be, mr president, the europe of innovation, democracy, dignity, freedom, the europe of the future, the europe of young people! well, i hope, mr president, that this europe... (the president withdrew the floor)
you will understand that all the group leaders have exceeded their time, including this. now i see that there is a point of order. go ahead, ms garcía pérez.
madam president, given the ideological differences that we all obviously have here, i ask that we be respectful of the debate in this house today: out of respect for europe, out of respect for our citizens. we will all have the opportunity to campaign to support our colleagues in the various political groups, and of course i will do so too. but this is not the time. when we want to, we meet our colleagues from each party in the campaign. a little respect for europe: i think it deserves it. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you very much. the principle of dignity and respect will be observed in this house, i can assure you.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, mr president macron, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we have experienced different emotions and feelings in this house this week: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. emotions and feelings are very different because they obviously cross joy and sorrow and they bring to the fore a fundamental element, which i think should characterize our debate: comparison and respect. and that is the cut we want to make as a group also for the french presidency. we want to do this because we also want to put forward fundamental demands on the main issues on your agenda. the first: the rule of law is not a subject that can be used as an ideological struggle, it is not a subject that can be used against anyone. we ask that during these six months there should also be a meaningful discussion to try to understand whether or not the individual dossiers justify the choices and whether these should be placed within an institutional framework which must be very clear and precise, respecting the will and mandate of the electors. we also want to reiterate our positions on other very important matters. the emergency of immigration. immigration needs to be approached with a broader vision, trying to understand what is happening in africa where, yes, europe has a role and a function to play, but where china is now predominant in its action. what has happened in recent years in libya, creating the conditions for a total lack of control over the flow of migration to the mediterranean and with an increasingly large and growing role for russia and turkey. let us discuss these fundamental aspects in order to deal with the urgent problems connected with the migratory flows with which we will inevitably have to cope. we are doing so in the midst of a pandemic, in which economic intervention measures have certainly provided a significant breath of fresh air, but we have a decisive game to play, such as that of the stability pact, on which we will be debating the merits, because it will determine whether or not we can consolidate growth in the most dramatic economic moment we are facing. i would also like to add another very important priority, namely the climate, where we must insert elements of realism with regard to the current economic, social and business structure of our continent and with regard to the overall assessment of this with the large numbers of the world's major producers. on these questions, mr president, we will confront each other, although from different points of view, of course, but we will do so in the same spirit, in the same spirit, in the same emotion that we have been breathing in these days in this chamber of respect and confrontation. we will do so with the strength of our ideas, we will do so with the strength of our proposals and we will do so above all with a great conviction, which is to put forward a project not against anyone, not against europe. we are here because we want to put in place a project to profoundly change rules, structures and choices at european level. the debate will lead us to this, our proposals will not be lacking, we will not shout at anyone, but we will put forward our ideas with the conviction and certainty that these ideas have the potential to represent a great opportunity for the future of europe.
i would like to make just one more reminder that this is not a national debate. we are discussing the french presidency’s priorities, and we need to respect this institution in that regard.
madam president, mr president macron, ladies and gentlemen, we are counting heavily on this semester. on many issues italy and france have a common vision and i believe it is time to lead europe out of the drought of immobility, egoism and the double pandemic that affects the lives of all citizens, health and energy. the five star movement today gives you its three priorities: the minimum wage. after the european parliament's vote, negotiations with the council are under way. an ambitious agreement is needed to raise the wages of europeans, combat relocations, wage dumping and unfair competition between firms. second point: the reform of the stability and growth pact. the pandemic has shelved austerity. we say forever and ever. green and social investment must be excluded from future budgetary constraints. thirdly, the environmental and energy transition. there's no more time to waste. from transport to energy, from industry to finance: all sectors must play their part in saving our planet from disastrous climate change. the next six months are going to be crucial. president, you have a great responsibility, be courageous and ambitious, but not just in words.
acting president of the council. thank you very much, madam president, i will try to go back to the main points that have been raised. i thank president weber very much for his call for action, which i share. first of all, i would like to thank you for your collective commitment to the fight against cancer. you have reiterated your desire to continue and strengthen this strategy. i know how much the european parliament is committed to this and that several initiatives have been taken. we will have several very concrete working sessions on this subject during this semester around - not exclusively, but mainly - three axes: the subjects of prevention, the subjects of paediatric cancers and the reconciliation of cancer and employment. i wanted to thank you for bringing up this important subject. you have mentioned european sovereignty, mr president, and i want to start by defending what has been done in recent years by all of us, very quickly. in the field of defence, we have made much more progress than we have in the last few decades, with the european defence fund, with a common strategy, with common technological choices, with collective projects - i could come back to that if some of you wish to do so here. a lot has been done in the field of technology, thanks to some of your votes, the agenda which is now being finalised and the proposals of the european commission. we are once again rebuilding a technological sovereignty agenda where europe has often thought of itself as a market. and this software change is very important. the market must have pure and perfect competition to avoid malfunctions and the giants coming to undermine our sovereignty, which is also what the commission is doing, but we must have a strategy for a coherent supply. this is what is being done and i would say that the best demonstration that sovereignty was not just a vain word was the period of covid. thanks to collective action, we have purchased vaccines in a way that none of our states could have, and i say this with great modesty. i have taken it upon myself to do so in front of the french people. i could not have, the government could not have organized a vaccination strategy in france if we had not had europe. this is the very essence of sovereignty. we bought, then we produced, we exported and we can give. that's what sovereignty is. so there are many very concrete elements of a sovereignty policy and i am not in favour of us flogging ourselves. and then, perhaps lastly, we have had a sovereign policy in economic and financial matters. the european central bank quickly decided on a very voluntary financial policy and we have built up since july - with considerable work by parliament throughout the summer and autumn - a european recovery plan which is the very essence of sovereignty. we decided to build macroeconomic and investment choices to withstand the crisis and revive the economy. in all these areas, i think we have done enough, but we must continue and i share your desire to do more. you mentioned russia, mr. president. i said, i agree with you, but i think we have to act. i think this is all the more so since, as you know, france initiated the return to an active and demanding dialogue, with work, and then, with chancellor merkel, we pushed for the return of a european dialogue with russia a few months ago. i regret that our colleagues did not follow us. we are going to put this work back into practice, because it is very difficult to have a sovereignty policy towards russia if we decide not to talk to russia. we have a sanctions policy that has been in place since 2014, but it's not enough. we need to have a comprehensive agenda and i have tried to describe it through this initiative that i am proposing, which is to build this new order of security and stability. secondly, i say it very strongly, we must build the conditions for sovereignty, that is to say, greater independence from russia. when i look at our oil and gas imports, we are not independent from russia. we will not become one overnight and i do not think we should cut all ties. on the contrary, we have a lot of ties with russia. but if we want to weigh up the situation, we must never be in a vulnerable situation and this is also a debate we must conduct in the light of this subject which sheds light on how much, i will come back to it, climate strategies. but i think that the solution in this respect will be to make a concrete european proposal in the coming weeks. i agree with what you said about the rule of law and values. first, i'll just distinguish the subjects very quickly. there is the general conditionality regime - as several of you have mentioned, including the chairmen and the president. this system, for which the european parliament has rightly fought hard, will protect the union's budget against violations of the rule of law that harm the union's financial interests. at the moment, as you know, we are awaiting the court of justice's ruling on this regulation, which, if it is valid, we know will have to be fully implemented by the commission. and the commission has set all the milestones on this subject with what has been proposed, discussed and voted here. then there are the procedures based on article 7 of the treaty. the procedure then continues with the situation report and the hearings organised by the successive council presidencies. we will have one in february for poland and one in march for hungary. so i hope that on these issues we can make progress. like you, i think it is too slow, but i think it is in our interest to try to persuade and change, as the european commission has been doing in recent weeks, particularly with poland, because i do not believe that the answer to the rule of law is to shrink europe and, basically, to accept that some countries can leave the common venture simply because they do not respect the rules. it is this lever that sometimes takes longer, but like you, i consider that things are too slow in this respect. we therefore need to have stronger measures at times, perhaps as part of our reforms. we must also lead and continue the work of persuasion. and then there are the contentious procedures based on the rule of law, which are numerous and i want to mention them because we are talking about the rule of law, because there is real efficiency, real joint action. these contentious proceedings are subject to court decisions. they are accompanied by significant financial costs (currently €1 million per day against poland, for example, for not having implemented a judgment of the court of justice), which shows the commission's real determination as guardian of the treaties and our court of justice to prevent our fundamental values from being undermined. so, there you have it, our procedures. they may take time to come, but there are decisions already made and there are consequences. on the climate transition, you mentioned it when you spoke of the unity of our peoples, and i will come back to this transition, of course, and its importance. i agree with this, and in this respect i agree with some of the remarks made by president jadot earlier. various accompanying measures are being put on the table today by the various european institutions and i want to recall them because it is in this spirit that we are working. first, there is the just transition fund which was created in 2021 to support the transition of carbon-intensive regions, with a budget of €17.5 billion for 2021-2027. then there is the european recovery plan, the main component of which is the recovery and resilience facility, which will be devoted 37% to the fight against global warming, with real accompanying measures. there is also what we have done in each of our countries. france used the recovery plan for several of its accompanying measures. finally, there is the creation of a social climate fund, which is a proposal from the commission to accompany the mechanisms. it is in this spirit that i say to both of you, that things are moving forward and the work is being done. and i totally agree with the spirit of gathering you mentioned. madam president, you had some common questions on the rule of law, and i have just answered them. i would just like to make one point because it is important here as in france. there has never been a choice for france to make the european flag disappear all at once. you've been misinformed and i have to remind myself of the facts and the reality. wherever we have ceremonies or celebrations, the european flag flies next to the french flag. and when i speak in front of my countrymen, that is what happens. the french flag never flies on the first of january of the year at the arc de triomphe. i never will. there is no flag. and so, to celebrate this european semester, we have decided, as in many other monuments, to fly the european flag alone, instead of nothing. and the first one at night, it was removed. there you go. there has been a lot of controversy because some people do not share this commitment, this will, this european spirit. one flag would have replaced the other. i admit, a european flag is flying instead of nothing, i am proud of it. as regards our social action and this agenda, the importance of which you have mentioned, i really want to thank you and express my attachment to this agenda which we will all have together, which is extremely important. the minimum wage directive is here now. it is the result of a lot of hard work and i really want to thank the member states which were often the most progressive and the most ambitious in social terms, but which had a tradition of social dialogue which made them fear that all efforts would be regulated too european. and together we were able to get some clarifications. the minimum wage directive thus pursues two main objectives: to extend the protection afforded by collective agreements in the field of minimum wages and, where a minimum wage already exists in a member state, to establish criteria for the setting of the level of wages. we are fully in our role, i think i can say, as the european union, to respect the competences, specificities and responsibilities of each of our states, but to create social convergence from above, in accordance with each of the models. and so i think that this directive, which will be able to move forward this semester, is a very important step in the spirit you have mentioned. on the platforms you mentioned, i have always shared the same philosophy. i'm not for banning innovation and i'm for letting it happen, but by building the rights that go with these new practices. that's exactly what we did. we have done so in france, where the texts were passed which made it possible to construct these regulations. and we know the need to protect workers all over europe. protecting workers from these platforms is not the same as vilifying, banning these platforms, because banning these platforms is just destroying the jobs that go with them and which, i think, have a social utility. allowing these jobs to be created and framing them to give them rights, i think is more relevant. so a proposal has been made by the european commission and now we have to work together on it. i am very much in favour of consolidating social rights for all workers and of social convergence from the top. this is what we have been working on at national level, as i said. the commission's december proposal will now succeed. we will start discussions on this proposal and we will move forward with ambition on this subject so that we have this level of protection. you have also stressed, madam president, and many others have done so since you, the importance of the gender equality agenda. you have also said so in your speech, but i should like to reiterate that this semester will be marked by several important texts. on the vocational equality side, we will focus on advancing discussions on the directive on better gender balance in boards. the conditions are now in place, particularly through a new coalition in germany, for us to be able to move forward with this text. so i wish we could speed things up. in the field of equal pay in the context of the persistent gender gap, the presidency's priority will be to initiate trilogues on the pay transparency directive and thus contribute to strengthening the application of the principle of equal pay for equal work or work of equal value. we will also work on the commission's forthcoming proposal on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. and we will continue to promote the universal ratification of the istanbul convention, which i would like to stress is important and which, i know, is still the subject of some reluctance on the part of several member states. i would like to make a few points. this allows me to say - this has been mentioned several times - that, of course, we all make speeches, so it is words, because nothing better has been found to make speeches, but that i always refer to acts and texts that are happening and are the result of common work. and all of the things i just mentioned can be taken forward in the semester. mr president, thank you very much for your two proposals on the europe of youth. we have put forward the proposal for a european civic service. as we are just a few days away from the erasmus anniversary, i believe that the choices that have been made collectively, that you have voted for, to significantly increase the budget, to extend the erasmus programme to young apprentices and beyond, and to accelerate and strengthen funding, will allow us to completely change the dimension of this essential programme. as for the simone veil pact, i am very much in favour of it. this pact, moreover, has very concrete consequences, i say this to be very clear to everyone, and so we will support it and try to make it prosper within the council and also to facilitate the signature of both all the member states and all the institutions concerned. mr president, you mentioned that... yes, you were speaking, sorry, as the president, the president delegated his word to you. i am sorry that i was elevating you to this position, but you were there from the heart, you spoke with the heart of a group chairman and i therefore welcome this commitment. i just wanted to go over a few things. the taxonomy is the first. this is a very important subject. the choice was made to have a taxonomy on the different energy sources. first, a point of method since many of you have returned to it. i am surprised that anyone is accused, and many have been, of signing agreements on social, environmental and energy issues with countries such as poland and hungary. finally, in these cases, stop the european union right now, excuse me, but that's not possible. we can have a dialogue, disagreements and take them on. but it is perfectly legitimate, even in the context of the disagreements in principle we have with some countries, to continue to move forward on the rest of the agenda. this is how our europe works. otherwise, you are blocking europe every moment, because tomorrow you or one of your colleagues will say that anyone who disagrees with you on climate, which is more important than anything, no longer deserves to be at the table when we talk about gender equality or when we talk about the rule of law. it's not working. this is how our europe works and how it can move forward and progress. secondly, i can tell you with all sincerity that france does not have a gas agenda. our history, our electrical mix, means we don't need it. but i also look at the scientific reality, since you have called it. we do not have the technological capacity to substitute intermittent forms of electricity generation for non-intermittent forms of production. it is a reality. otherwise we are putting our ability to supply electricity to our compatriots at risk. this means that the electricity today is produced by coal, gas and nuclear power. then you have renewable energy, which we have to keep developing and we have to do a lot more, which, when we have storage technologies, can replace it. but not today. all international scientists have classified these energy sources as non-intermittent electricity production. the ipcc itself did. i refer you to his work, the scientific and independent character of which cannot be disputed here. the most polluting source is coal. many of our countries still have it. the second is gas, and so for countries that want to get off coal, at that point, using gas is relevant. this is not the case in france, but it is a reality and we must support certain european countries which have to move away from coal and towards gas. others have nuclear power, like france. and some others, to carry out their strategy, need nuclear power. and so, in this respect, to recognize nuclear as a low-carbon energy source is simply a scientific reality. i therefore consider the commission's text to be a good text because it is based on scientific evidence. i would add that, not content with allowing europe alone to implement its transition strategy, because without this text we would not be able to do so, it is consistent with the sovereignty principle, because we produce nuclear energy on our own soil and we import gas, which we hardly produce on our own soil any more. it is also a reality. and in a context where we will continue to electrify our mobility, where we will have to produce hydrogen, we will have, all the time, even as we make efforts to reduce our traditional consumption, an increased need for electricity, which implies having the most decarbonised non-intermittent forms possible to produce it. that is why i consider that defending this taxonomy and nuclear energy is a choice consistent with the fight against global warming and climate change. i heard you after a while on a burden instruction and i will not go back on everything. you have to be very specific about the subjects. general mobilization, we all agree, but general mobilization is a slogan. then you have to go into detail. i wish all europeans had mobilized when france put forward an ambitious glyphosate agenda in 2018. we have had little follow-up, even from governments where the political forces you represent were in charge. i am pleased that we all agreed to carbon neutrality at the end of last year. we started with three of us, including against governments where there were the political forces you represent. there were eight or ten of us in sibiu, i remember, and we convinced everyone. france has been at the forefront of this strategy. you can't deny it because you'd be lying. and so, whether it was pushing the green deal, whether it was pushing carbon neutrality by 2050, whether it was pushing the fight against glyphosate, we were there, sometimes alone, sometimes in small groups, and we were blamed for being too isolated. but we have always been able to make progress in a spirit which is not that of compromise - i say this for you and for mrs aubry - but in the spirit of what you are doing here, that is to say, finding compromises to find useful solutions at european level, because we are not alone, even though we are very ambitious. i also want to say how we were the first, contrary to what you said, to oppose the trade agreements. and i want to reassure you: france is the country that has been most opposed to the signing of new agreements and in particular that has denounced mercosur, precisely because of brazil's failure to comply with the paris agreements. and we'll continue to wear that by doing two things. the first is to consider that europe does not have to sign a text with powers which do not respect the paris agreements - and we have been clear on this every time - the second is to ask for mirror clauses every time. in the same way, in fighting for a border carbon tax, it is a concrete agenda, it is a practical agenda and, in essence, i share the ambition you have advocated. but i think we all have to find ourselves today in very concrete constructions, proposals that are realistic to implement. that is what we have tried to do in france. i shall not answer this question here, because this is not the place, but from the renovation of thermal buildings to the renewal of vehicles and the closure of thermal power stations, we have made progress and i hope, like you, that we can do it faster. it is simply a change in action and in the concrete that we have to make. the same is true at european level and we will continue to move forward with investment agreements with china. i'm going to answer that because it's an important topic. three things. first, we signed with chancellor merkel and the institutions in december 2020, with very clear conditions, considering that, here too, first of all the objective was to protect all our industrial sectors, the elements of intellectual property rather than remain in a form of anomie. secondly, we have set clear conditions, in particular the guidelines of the international labour organisation, which allow, at that very moment, an end to the practices you mention, forced labour, the massacre of the uyghurs and international control. and on that, i would say the ball is in china's court and these discussions are now on hold because we are waiting for china to come back. in the same way, we will also make the lifting of sanctions, in particular sanctions against several members of parliament present here who were able to speak and who have been subject to sanctions from china which we cannot accept, a condition for the resumption of dialogue, in order to re-engage in such a dialogue. you then touched on the topic of migration - and thank you for doing so in terms that remind us of the humanity behind this theme, when we talk about migration, it is women and men fleeing poverty. i simply want to say that i share the emotion you have expressed and the seriousness of the situation we are in. i also want to tell you that in calais, france, and this even before the beginning of the mandate that the french people have entrusted to me, has a policy of responsibility and humanity because we have women and men who want to reach the british shores, who do not want to ask for asylum or protection in france. we have built sustainable reception centres, accommodation centres, where asylum seekers are trained and those who are ready to do so are welcomed, fed and given access to their applications. we are faced with a situation where, every week, several hundred women and men who have crossed europe and asia minor, sometimes the mediterranean and parts of africa, do not want to go to these shelters that have been set up. so we cannot pretend that this situation can be permanent. because there are also women and men who live on french soil, who live in calais and who are faced with sometimes terrible situations of insecurity, of unsanitary conditions. so our law enforcement agencies are doing everything they can within a framework that we have always tried to improve, with the control of the judge, of the sanctions that have been taken against france. but i also want to say that we have a genuine commitment from all the forces, whether it be the internal security forces, the health forces and the whole of the associations. we cannot settle this matter at the root if the way in which the british side is dealing with the migration issue does not change. because today our british neighbours and friends, firstly, remain in the approach to the migration issue that was in the early 1980s, which is to have basically accepted illegal economic migration. and so, you can work quite calmly, without any paperwork, because it was a model of economic development. it is no longer compatible with the reality of the migratory flows we are experiencing. the second thing is that they have not sufficiently organised the legal, stable, secure ways and means of seeking asylum in britain. that is why we are faced with this situation and so it is through a demanding dialogue with the british that we can really deal with this subject which is absolutely terrible from a humanitarian point of view and which we cannot accept to be held hostage to ease. mr. bardella, first of all i want to say that i don't think that french women and french men are sad. i want to reassure you, if you're sad, i'm sorry, but i don't think that's the case with french women and french men. secondly, you have essentially made a tribune, like other speakers - and i have not responded here to the more national topics - you have basically made a rather french-french text of all the criticisms. i should like to congratulate you on your methodical way of saying anything about all the european texts we could sign, and i should like to say that the method you have used deserves some respect because it shows that your speech is really consistent. but it is not by saying anything methodically, even if the nonsense is true, that one can end up saying the truths. if, as you said, we had signed a text that would have divested the states of their sovereignty in the matter of migration, we would not be discussing it at the council table - giving the president of the epp group the benefit of the doubt that we are too slow - and we would not be discussing a migration pact, it would already be settled by this wonderful secret agreement. no, we still have national competence in this area. that is why we have decided to engage in a thorough political work on schengen. the commission has made strong proposals to improve the functioning of the internal schengen borders. we will enable and give greater political force to this body by wanting to strengthen our external borders, by improving cooperation and above all by having a coordinated and common policy on return to the countries of origin. i'm not saying that the subject underlying your statement doesn't exist. today we are faced with a migratory pressure. this pressure to migrate has several root causes, and we must deal with them here too with a lot of ambition and method, and what we are doing with africa is one of them. but we must improve our policy of protecting the external borders. we must combat the inefficiencies of our common functioning which lead to absurd policies, sometimes between member states, and we must improve the efficiency of return to the countries of origin because it is currently totally inadequate. i think that's a reasonable agenda in this matter. i think i have already answered the other questions by referring to your predecessors. mr legutko, mr president, i think i have answered your question on the rule of law. you mentioned the subject of the growth pact. i would just like to say in a word that, at european level, we have an extremely effective and pragmatic policy during this crisis. in fact, learning from the past, we have suspended the conventional rules in order to be able to act and have, for the first time in our history, this recovery plan which has enabled us to invest massively as europeans. the question is going to be one of a kind of return to normalcy. this will not be the normal situation before the crisis, because i think we must approach the macroeconomic issue in the light of the building of our european independence and we must also do so in the light of the indispensable investments that are ours. the climate agenda we have been talking about is a massive investment, some national, some european. the technological and digital agenda, the social and accompanying agenda. and the geopolitical agenda requires significant defense spending. and i'm not going to go into detail. all this shows the importance of a new investment policy and this is the debate we need to have. i have informally proposed that we have a strategic discussion in march between heads of state and government on this subject, but we must invent a new grammar which retains elements of budgetary convergence and accountability, particularly for those who share the common currency, and alongside this we must all adopt a policy of ambition and investment, otherwise we will be alienated by the american and chinese powers which are making these investments on many subjects. if we want to have a real space strategy, if we want to have a real strategy in terms of semiconductors, in terms of artificial intelligence, in terms of quantum, and i'm not exhaustive, we have to have such an investment policy. madam president, you mentioned free trade agreements, and i have already answered that. then you said something that was very true. you said, and i quote you: 'the french presidency of the european union must not be an electoral platform'. and i think you're absolutely right... so, to many here you were right not to do it. the last subject you mentioned is, i think, much more important, in that it touches lives, and that is the subject of vaccines. on the subject of vaccines, i want to start by defending our europe, all of us and the commission. first of all, because we are the only place in the world that has bought and very quickly produced more than two billion doses today and has never put an export ban. and so we've produced nearly two and a half billion doses. we exported half of it. there's no other space that's done that. the united states of america, for months and months at the height of the crisis, banned exports, including of components, including to emerging developing states which, as a result, were unable to produce for themselves or others, this is a reality. we must also be clear-headed. we can say together when things are not going well, but when europe is a strong, responsible and up to its standards model, we must say so. we have always exported. we have initiated the solidarity initiative from the beginning. it is an initiative of europe and africa, which is the so-called act-a initiative, which led to this vaccine dialogue and this solidarity policy, as early as april 2020 - i was myself in one of the meetings of the african union bureau at the time - and then we convinced the members of the g20 and we were able to move forward. the short-term priority in this area has been the provision of doses. on that basis, we will keep our commitments. i mentioned them earlier, we have already delivered 120 million doses to date, whereas china, for example, has delivered 16 million. we also need to remember these truths, because there is geopolitical competition. we must not allow ourselves to be put in a minority situation and we have set ourselves that target of 700 by june. the second element is that we then said, we need to have an agenda, and we had it right away, to help produce vaccines on the african continent. but i also say here with great lucidity, today's vaccination is not done with the production we start. we have to be very honest with ourselves. starting to produce capacity on african soil is about building capacity in 18-24 months, it's not about enabling vaccination policies today. so the top priority for a vaccine that we've had for a year, has been to give the doses, deliver them and most importantly to get them to the right place and to organize the campaigns. we must continue to do better, and here i want to make two additions. firstly, we must continue to improve our work with unicef, because we have seen on the ground that some policies have failed because of disorganization and so this is really a very concrete, material subject, we must not let it go. the second thing is that we must not forget our support for the primary health care system. when african countries no longer have the funding to have a primary health system, it is very difficult to organize vaccination campaigns. sometimes we ourselves, by our choices in the past decades of reducing public aid to development and bilateral solidarity investment in health, have let health systems fall apart. so we must not let the policy of vaccination make us forget this vital lever. secondly, yes, we must develop capabilities in a forced way. why, i'm telling you here, there's a simple number: africa is 20 percent of the world's vaccine needs, it's 2 percent of the vaccines produced. every time there's a pandemic crisis, or a new wave, or other crises that come, there's always going to be pressure, because national or regional egos will come back. so we need to have an agenda, indeed, for vaccine production on the african continent and in all the poorest countries and emerging countries. we europeans were the first to do so. i was myself last spring in rwanda, south africa, on this subject the first platforms were launched. and then there is a debate that has arisen about intellectual property and, precisely, free patents. i'll tell you things with there too much transparency. france has been in favour of this, has spoken in favour of it. but it's easy for france to be in favour, because we don't have a patent today, because it turns out that french manufacturers haven't found a vaccine. forgive me for being so direct with you, but i'm not going to be cynical as the president of the french nation. i could please you today, and i could dress myself in dignity and i could blame some of our neighbors who helped us get vaccinated and who have industrialists who have intellectual property. do we have to tear up intellectual property? no, i'm not going. why would you do that? because that's the right reward for innovation. because behind it are women and men looking. it's only natural that when they find the right one, she gets paid. what we need to do is make sure that intellectual property, and therefore patents, are never a barrier to the creation of these capabilities. i never will. i say to you today in all sincerity, it is not. and so, this is a political, ideological debate which has its dignity, and i will tell you what i think about it and what proposals we are going to make in europe. but that's not an effective debate, because the reality is that we have to do the technology transfer and build those capabilities first. even if this debate were to arise in france, we do not have the capacity to produce and manufacture messenger rna substances in france today. and we're not blocked by an intellectual property issue. our only concern is to speed up the transfer of technology. the same is true of the african continent. so let's just be there too and these debates are important, they are political debates in the noble sense of the word, but we must not get lost in very practical terms because we have to move forward to help africa. the priority is to fund structures that produce vaccines, to create partnerships and to enable this technology transfer. and this is where the european union, with the world health organization and by putting pressure on all the big pharmaceutical industries, needs to be more urgent in accelerating these technology transfers. what does that mean? let those who have the knowledge delegate teams to help produce these capabilities in africa. in this respect, europe is by far the most advanced continent. the european commission has visited africa on several occasions to develop these capacities, from senegal to rwanda, kenya, south africa, etc. we'll keep going. the proposal that i hope we will be able to make in the european parliament and which, if we are able to make progress in the coming weeks, will make a lot of sense in the european parliament and in the african parliament, in the context of the summit between the african union and the european union, is the global licence. it is to enable in a very concrete way - and this is what the director-general of the wto is proposing with the director-general of the world health organization - that, precisely, every time we create these capacities, we remove all constraints in terms of capacity, intellectual property, technology transfer to enable, immediately and without cost, to develop these capacities in africa. and so what we're going to be working on between now and the end of february is to be able to bring to the african union-european union summit a joint proposal for a global licensing for covid vaccines, and hopefully, more broadly, and be able to defend that agenda. i think, madam president, that i have thus answered the questions you asked, since you asked me again about the growth model, about our values, and i think i have been rather exhaustive in my inquiries, beyond the more political and national subjects. thank you very much.
thank you, mr president, for your answer.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the republic, there is no ambiguity, we are in your political opposition at national level, but you are here as president of the council of the union, not as a future candidate for the presidential elections. and because we are euro-demanding, we want our country to contribute positively to the european project. i think of italy, dear david sassoli, and of reading your european programme, and i would like to say that the subjects of the french presidency of the union are at the same time good, brutal and thuggish. the good news is that there is useful progress that will serve the europeans. the minimum wage, the carbon adjustment at the border, the digital regulation. as social democrats we claim a large part of it and we will therefore be vigilant that the results are not sold on the altar of political agreements that are made quickly and badly. because your semester is really only one quarter of real action. but the priorities of the french presidency of the union are also tougher, more brutal. nothing about inequality, poverty or homelessness. nothing on tax fraud or tax evasion. the exploitation of the migration and schengen issues promises an outcome that will be neither humane nor effective. and finally, there are a number of subjects on which the french presidency of the union wants to avoid the sergio leone-style vigilante patrol. on climate issues, where the original ambition is being derailed, whether it's taxonomy or burying the energy efficiency first principle. on economic governance and budgetary rules, where ambitions for major reform are downplayed, if not eliminated. on the rule of law, where we understood that you would not go so far as to get angry with your colleagues in the council. or the conference on the future of europe, an initiative which is likely to go awry, much like other consultations you have been in charge of. mr president of the republic, in films as in our institution, it is rarely good to want to play all the roles at once, to try to be the sole master on board in order to impose a vision of the european union as a kind of france growing larger. the feeling of belonging to the european union cannot be decreed, it is built, and it will be built in respect of our assembly.
madam president, the pegasus spying scandal is the european watergate and, mr president, you understand this more than anyone else in this chamber because you yourself were also targeted with the pegasus software. so i call for your solidarity with the journalists, lawyers and politicians in poland and hungary who are being spied on by their own governments. most targets in hungary have one thing in common. they were all critics of the orbán government. clearly, this is their way to intimidate all of us who still dare to defy them. mr president, this should never happen in europe. we have to acknowledge that, and we ask the french presidency to finally address democratic backsliding and to address the pegasus spying scandal under article 7 proceedings, because if governments in europe can continue to use secret service weapons against political opponents, to go through family pictures and to listen in to private conversations, without any consequences, then we cannot speak of democracies anymore – and thus the very foundation of the european union will fall apart. the eu has to take action, and the french presidency now has the chance to do so. mr president, we are counting on you... (the president cut off the speaker).
madam president, i say to mr macron: when i first heard you present the priorities of the french presidency on 9 december last year, i was struck by the sincere passion with which you talked about regaining european sovereignty, defending its values and interests. a few days later, however, you visited viktor orbán in budapest, who not only disregards the european values that you seek to defend, but acts as a trojan horse in undermining its sovereignty and geopolitical interest, echoing moscow’s position at a time when putin conducts a military offensive at our borders, adopts cold war rhetoric and revives the brezhnev doctrine by outlining its spheres of influence in an ultimatum like stalin did in yalta. how do you wish to go about attaining european sovereignty given the apparent challenges that pro-russian illiberalism poses? and what reforms do you propose in our institutions and procedures to further your objective?
mr. president, i have to ask you... the economic weight and social impact of the tech giants is felt by all of us, as social media affects our lives, our consumption habits and our decisions on a daily basis. so one of the biggest challenges of our time is whether we're going to be able to get out of the digital bubble and dominate technology or let technology take control of our lives. it's time to end the giant platforms' role of setting the rules and allowing the spread of illegal content, such as content related to terrorism. i believe that this can only be achieved by guaranteeing the democratic core values of transparency and accountability in the digital space. we cannot allow our citizens to be the victims of censorship.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the work she has done with the political groups. a demanding job, certainly not a simple one, a complex job where certainly not all aspects have found a broadly agreed definition. and unfortunately i think that in some parts of the text, especially in the light of some amendments, we have gone beyond the original purpose of this text which - i would like to remind you - is to ensure that everything that is illegal online is also illegal offline and to ensure first of all that our citizens are protected in the use of digital services. that is what we must bear in mind as we approach the vote. that is why we must be careful not to undermine freedom of expression and information, especially by the media and the press. we must also be careful when we evaluate this text and understand what its impact may be on the important regulation of the gdpr, which is also the result of excellent work, which has ensured that in these years an important doctrine and jurisprudence have been formed and consolidated that cannot be ignored. the aim of the text must be to avoid a system which crushes small and mediumsized enterprises and which imposes too stringent requirements which impede their development on our continent. i should like to stress that the text is not perfect, but i hope that it can be improved in the trilogue. our union must be the first to set standards in areas which the whole world is looking at today, in particular the regulation of the new sectors of the economy, which are currently legislative jungles. we did it for privacy, and now the world is following our lead. we will do that, and it's time for digital markets to stop the giants of the web from legislating for the citizens. these are not my words, but those of the late president sassoli at the last european council. today we are disciplining our digital markets and services, creating a model for others and laying the foundations for a more democratic and secure europe for future generations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is the first power in the world to create a complete system of rules for the digital universe, which is an essential challenge for a democracy like the european one, which wants to be a champion of digital innovation and at the same time preserve the human rights of its citizens. there are areas where we need to improve and where we need to be more ambitious. first, the traceability of business users. if we limit the obligations to the marketplace alone, we miss the opportunity to make the dsa truly effective and meaningful, to give it all the tools to combat the wide range of illegal online activities of today and the future. the rules must apply to all intermediary service providers if we want an online environment that is transparent and accountable for business and consumers, that is, for us citizens. access to illegal content must be disabled immediately, all necessary measures must be taken to prevent the reappearance of content already identified as illegal, and the removal times must be specified and quantified in the measure, fast and reliable. then, targeted advertising. as has already been said, users cannot be unwitting suppliers of data. finally, this is a unique opportunity for the eu to affirm our model of society, our point of virtuous balance between innovation, the people at the centre and the economic interests we believe in. our standards can thus be a reference point and a standard worldwide.
mr. president, fellow members of the house. viktor orbán recently wanted to censor the content on facebook. since he couldn't censor it, he decided to flood it with his own propaganda. and this, not surprisingly, is done in a way that is consistent with the billions of dollars of public money that goes around the current campaign spending rules. hungarian facebook and youtube users are already facing an astonishing amount of government lies on a daily basis. today, a child cannot watch a fairy tale on youtube without being interrupted at least three times by viktor orbán's hate propaganda. and that's not only outrageous, it's unacceptable and untenable. my fellow members of the house of representatives! it is a good thing that we are going to regulate digital platforms at eu level. finally, european decision-makers have recognized that this is the only way to protect european citizens from both the greedy, rule-breaking tech giants and the autocratic governments, but we also need to be more vigilant about how these platforms operate during elections. it's time to say that facebook, google and all the other giant platforms are also responsible for what happens on their platforms during election campaigns. otherwise, these platforms become a slot machine for election fraud. the one who pays the most wins, and democracy loses.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. the objective of 60 gw of offshore renewable energy by 2030 and 340 gw by 2050 requires coordinated action at european level, simplification of the licensing and regulatory framework. however, it requires first of all the necessary infrastructure and public acceptance and consensus for the creation of offshore wind farms, including the participation of local investment schemes. one of the reasons why there is a very serious reaction in various regions is the question of the proper siting of offshore wind farms and for that reason this condition should concern us all. in the mediterranean, where we are a multi-promising location, we have not exhausted our potential. the good practices coming mainly from the north sea could help in this direction. we could also develop the potential of offshore renewable energy through better maritime spatial planning processes, by involving local communities in consultation, by accelerating funding for research and development in innovative technologies such as floating offshore wind, solar, climate and tidal power installations, and the production of green hydrogen. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we need 800 billion euros in renewable energy for offshore installations to fill the european gap. we are faced with a wager that must be won for the strategic autonomy of europe, these days.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their valuable interventions. honourable members, i welcome your positive remarks, acknowledging the strong contribution of offshore renewable energy to meeting our climate and energy goals, helping address the energy price crisis and supporting the recovery by creating new local jobs. i also welcome the points on how to improve our work going forward. your remarks are valid and the commission will take them into account as we move on with our work on accelerating the deployment of offshore renewable energy. you are encouraging the commission to move forward with new and concrete measures. we are committed to doing exactly that. you referred to the need for the acceleration of offshore deployment. as i mentioned earlier in my introductory remarks, there will be guidance for member states that aims exactly at easing their administrative process and sharing best practices, helping to speed up the renewables deployment. i welcome the report and take it as an encouragement for the commission to continue and identify its actions, and i hope that we can count on this house’s full support in tackling them in order to create the huge acceleration in offshore renewable energy that we need in the coming years.
the rapporteur. i would like to thank the president-in-office. thank you, colleagues, thank you, commissioner simpson. thank you for the debate tonight. i am glad that there has been such broad support, such broad political anchoring for this important issue. because it is incredibly important that there is really broad ownership of turbocharging offshore wind development. a few notes from the debate: i think the commissioner is quite right in describing the eu as the world leader in this field, as a 'powerhouse'. and i think it is important that we also stress the industrial prospects associated with this in terms of job creation in europe if we are to continue to hold on to the advantages we clearly have in this area. but that requires action. it requires that we not rest on our laurels. much needs to be done, i think the commissioner said. i would like to do the same with my words. it was a common feature of the debate that the pace must be increased, that we simply have to increase our ambitions if we are to live up to our own action plans and strategies in this area. that means that we must now concentrate on getting all the words and comments which have been heard here tonight and which are expressed in the report into law. i would also like to add that i think that many of the rapporteurs understood very well the comments on the subject of autonomy, that if we succeed in developing renewable energy at the pace we want, we will increase our autonomy. then we'll be independent of the sheikhs of the middle east and of putin's iron grip on the use of energy as a weapon. so what's not to like? it's about getting started. let's get the renewable energy expansion going. let's get the energy efficiency up. it makes europe more independent of the outside world, when we can reduce imports from third countries in this way. and finally, i look forward to putting the strategy into practice. it's an emergency.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate you, ms hübner and the honourable members of this house, on the adoption of this excellent report. the commission fully agrees with most of its findings. the report provides a comprehensive assessment of the way that article 50 of the treaty on the european union was interpreted and applied for the first time ever in the context of the uk’s withdrawal from the european union. for the european union, for all of us, the uk’s decision to leave the european union triggered an entirely novel process and posed an unprecedented challenge, one which we from the very beginning pursued with the utmost sincerity and resolved to bring to a conclusion in an orderly manner, not least because the withdrawal had a severe impact on the lives of millions of citizens and we owed it to them to ensure legal certainty. while we continue to regret the uk’s decision to leave, we can attest that article 50 has met its objectives of preserving the sovereign right of a member state to withdraw from the european union. though not without challenges, it enabled an orderly withdrawal. even though article 50 did not specify some aspects of the procedure, through deep reflection, as well as the highest level of interinstitutional coordination and transparency in the negotiations, the interpretation and implementation of article 50 have proven to uphold the common values and goals that make up the foundation of the union – particularly democracy, freedom and the rule of law. the provisions of article 50 on the notification and extension of the period have also proven sufficiently flexible to respond to the political challenges posed by the succession of the uk government. during the process, unity and solidarity among the eu institutions and among member states reigned.we negotiated with the uk as one union, one family. it was unprecedented and remarkable, and it contributed majorly to the successful conclusion of the negotiations. this unity now also provides a solid foundation for the implementation of the withdrawal agreement following our continued resolve to put peace and people above everything else. to protect citizens rights, to address the unique circumstances of the island of ireland, to safeguard the good friday agreement in all its dimensions, to protect the single market and to respect the integrity of the union’s legal order. in this respect, i would like to thank the european parliament for the excellent cooperation, its key role in representing eu citizens and commend all of you for the important work you have done. as the report correctly points out, the article has shortcomings. it is silent on several issues. while we hope that we will not find ourselves in a situation in which article 50 has to be applied in the future, we would take the lessons learnt from the past process and appropriately reflect upon them if the need arises. overall, the interpretation and application of article 50 provided legal stability with minimal disruption and led to an orderly withdrawal, while achieving the core goal of protecting the integrity and interests of the european union, its citizens and its member states. indeed, while the article 50 process has been concluded, the unbinding of eu membership and implementation of the withdrawal agreement is a long—term process. the commission appreciates that the parliament continues to play its important role in the monitoring of the implementation of the withdrawal agreement and we will continue our excellent cooperation and keep the parliament informed.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, billions of euros in vat revenues are still lost every year in the eu. a commission study estimated the vat gap, measured as the difference between vat revenues and the revenues actually collected in eu member states, at eur 134 billion in 2019 alone. the report is thus very much welcomed, and we will totally take it into account in our actions to fight against vat fraud and evasion. as you rightfully state, there is a need to increase the transparency and robustness of vat gap estimates. the commission intends to work with national administrations to produce more targeted analyses of the components and reasons for the vat gap at a national and eu level. the idea would be to segment the overall vat gap into separate elements that could be quantified and further analysed. i can also confirm that expert groups composed of experts from national administrations are meeting regularly to exchange good practices and improve a harmonised methodological approach as regards the analysis of the vat gap. i can also underline the collective work and achievements of eu member states with the support and involvement of the commission in the framework of the european multidisciplinary platform against criminal threats and its operational action plan, designed to disrupt the capacity of criminal networks and individual criminal entrepreneurs involved in missing trader intra community fraud. as concerns the definitive system of vat, i would like to underline that the commission remains committed to its proposal. however, discussions in the council have shown that a significant number of member states have concerns on this proposal. the commission stands ready to further support council discussions in addressing these concerns. further measures will also be put forward in order to strengthen the vat system in the future. as announced in the 2020 action plan for fair and simple taxation supporting the recovery, the commission plans to adopt a proposal in the second half of 2022 concerning the vat in the digital age package. one of the elements in this proposal will be taking advantage of digital technologies and policies to modernise vat reporting obligations. it will in particular consider the implementation of real-time and transaction-based information, including on cross-border transactions. the use of digital technologies and policies will not only reinforce the fight against vat fraud and collection, but also reduce the vat administrative burden and compliance costs. digital reporting requirements have helped reduce the vat gap in those member states that have introduced them. the implementation of an eu-wide system for the reporting of transactions is thus expected to significantly contribute to the fight against vat fraud, while also reducing the administrative burden that taxable persons operating in different member states are facing due to the disparity of reporting obligations. the expansion of the use of e—invoicing and the distributed ledger technology will be analysed in the framework of this initiative. the initiative will also adapt the vat rules to new business models, in particular the platform economy. finally, another part of the initiative will be the single vat registration in the eu, which will extend and further improve the newly introduced one—stop shop and import one-stop shop. this will allow businesses to supply goods and services across the entire eu without the need to have multiple vat registrations. registration in one member state where the business is established will suffice. let me now briefly mention the proposal on the modernisation of the system of vat rates on which negotiations in council have concluded – the result of marathon negotiations. it shows that where there is a will there is a way, a european way forward. as you know, this proposal is important to ensure that all member states can apply the same rules when it comes to vat rates. i fully agree that we need to avoid revenue erosion, and i am pleased that strong safeguards, notably a maximum number of reduced rates in a given member state, have been agreed to that effect. a fine balance has been achieved, ensuring equal treatment of member states without proliferation of lower rates, which would be harmful to fiscal consolidation in the post—covid-19 era. the new rules will also be aligned with our new health and environmental priorities, as well as better adapted to the digital transition. the european parliament is being re-consulted on this proposal, given that the council has introduced substantial changes and i look forward to hearing your position. i would like to conclude by thanking you once again for the excellent suggestions in your report and to assure you that the commission is committed to using all the means at its disposal to continue fighting vat fraud and evasion.
rapporteur. – madam president, madam commissioner, thank you for your comments on article 50. now i will present my comments. as you know, brexit has been an unprecedented process with undeniable political, legal, economic and social consequences. and all european institutions, including the european parliament, have expressed regret regarding the uk decision, but we respected it. we were strongly convinced that the withdrawal of the uk without an agreement would have dramatic negative consequences, and we felt responsible for ensuring the accomplishment of this process in the best interests of the union and its citizens. the cross—cutting legal dimension of the whole process with article 50 as its core was fundamental. this is an implementation report that specifically looks at one article and assesses its operation from the constitutional and institutional perspective, informing the plenary how article 50 of the treaty on european union was implemented in the framework of eu law as a whole. first and foremost, i would like to thank everybody who, in the course of the work on this report, helped preserve the institutional memory of the process of implementing article 50: the shadows and opinion-givers, but also all colleagues of afco, both in the previous and current legislatures; the afco secretariat, all those who provided scholarly input and the parliamentary legal service. the report assesses the way the provisions of article 50 were interpreted and applied and the way procedures of the withdrawal were organised and conducted under those provisions. the implementation of article 50 allowed to draw lessons for and reflect on the constitutional order and institutional organisation of the union. as an exit clause, article 50 provides rules allowing the withdrawal to take place within the eu legal order, protects fundamentals of the integration process and preserves the interests of the union. and this test, the article has passed successfully. its implementation allowed to set out the terms for orderly withdrawal and for disentangling the uk from rights and obligations undertaken as a member state. the implementation of the article required, however, additional tools to be deployed, going beyond the letter of the article, leading to an active role played by politics. indeed, article 50 deals with a confluence of the constitutional and institutional aspects of the process and the role of political constraints. this political component played an important role in protecting the rights of millions of eu citizens in the uk and uk nationals in the eu, and taking into account the special circumstances confronting the island of ireland. the main guiding political documents were an outcome of high-quality and responsible cooperation between european institutions. acting in the interest of the union, they identified core constitutional principles for the process, enriching the eu constitutional identity. during the implementation of article 50, those principles played the role the copenhagen criteria play in case of enlargement, which is protecting eu interests. in short, the core principles ensured that, while changing its membership, the union could preserve constitutional integrity and autonomy of decision-making. article 50, supported by article 218, proved to be an empowering legal provision. let me can conclude, pointing to the fact that article 50 involves, as well, the preparation of the post-exit relationship. it implies that negotiated orderly withdrawal gives a chance for a post—exit voluntary partnership. so article 50, one can say, in combination with article 8, can provide an integration-friendly outcome.
in writing. two years have passed since the united kingdom left the european union. we regretfully acknowledge the sovereign decision of the british people, considering what has led to this, what we could have done better to avoid leaving. the conference on the future of europe could be a good opportunity for self-examination if it were to look honestly in the mirror and listen to all opinions. the european union's withdrawal from the union is a matter of national sovereignty, but it is useful to review, analyse and draw conclusions from some of the legal aspects of the withdrawal procedure and the problems that have arisen. unfortunately, the report in question unnecessarily stigmatises the united kingdom instead of providing an objective analysis. instead of drawing any real conclusions, he would promote centralization and propose self-serving contract changes. the draft report also contains serious legal errors. the draft deconstructs the constitutional identity of the union, whereas the european union, unlike the member states, is not a state and therefore does not have a constitution and therefore cannot have a constitutional identity. in the context of the notice of withdrawal, the report sets out a biased interpretation, not shared by the court of justice of the european union, which is incompatible with union law. to meet the challenges of the 21st century, the european union must look to the united kingdom as a partner and ally, rather than accepting reports with stigmatizing language.
member of the commission. – madam president, first let me thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) for its own—initiative report on the impact of national tax reforms on the eu economy. the committee rightly points to those challenges and complexities arising from a policy area which remains largely a responsibility of the member states. while there are good reasons for that, as member states are often best placed to take tax policy measures fit for the structure of their economy, it also bears risks in terms of fragmentation and disruption in the functioning of our single market. in a context of close economic integration and deep interdependency, uncoordinated tax policies can lead to harmful tax practices and unfair tax competition, to the detriment of member states’ tax bases. they may also lead to double taxation or non—taxation, legal uncertainty and red tape, therefore discouraging cross—border activities and investment. the report therefore calls for the right balance to be found in terms of coordination of national tax policies, and for a certain level of harmonisation to further strengthen single market integration and prevent tax base erosion. in particular, it provides useful recommendations in support of our eu tax priorities from the implementation of the global agreement on corporate taxation to the adoption of an ambitious eu business tax framework fit for the decades to come. let me dive into some of the new initiatives you mentioned in the report. the global agreement to reform international corporate taxation that was endorsed last year by g20 world leaders is historic, and the commission is moving quickly to implement it at eu level. we have collectively committed to an implementation roadmap. the pillar one and pillar two rules are due to come into effect in 2023. we already tabled on 22 december a proposal for an eu directive on implementing minimum taxation, known as pillar two. it will put a floor on excessive tax competition between jurisdictions, thus contributing to both fair taxation and to a sound business environment. a proposal for a directive implementing pillar one, dealing with a reallocation of taxing rights, is planned to be tabled in the course of this year to allow for the work to be finalised at the organisation for economic co—operation and development (oecd). the implementation of the two pillars of the global agreement by 2023 will ensure that our tax system reflects the new reality of our economies and allows for a level playing field between all business models where all companies, including digital ones, pay their fair share of taxes in the right place. as you will have noted, the digital levy remains on hold. the commission considers the implementation of the oecd global agreement to be a key priority in the area of corporate taxation. the commission has proposed last december an own resource that builds on pillar one of the oecd agreement, and your report rightly calls for the debt bias in the corporate tax system to be addressed. the current debt bias induced by most eu tax systems not only leads to higher debt levels, which make companies more fragile and economies more vulnerable to crisis, it also discourages equity financing, which is crucial for innovation. in the coming months, the commission is planning to come forward with an initiative to help redress the current debt bias with a view to ensuring a better balance between the treatment of debt and equity for tax purposes. the initiative will help to develop a well—functioning capital markets union and supporting the re-equitisation of eu companies. this measure is only a starting point for a comprehensive reform of our eu business tax system. in 2023, as you know, the commission will put forward a proposal that will move the eu towards a common tax rulebook, the ‘business in europe: framework for income taxation’. commissioner gentiloni’s services are currently at the stage of reflection and are consulting widely with stakeholders in order to properly frame the new challenges and assess which aspects of current corporate tax systems require reforms. your contribution will be particularly valuable in this regard. the tax symposium that dg taxud will be organising during the second half of the year will include an important series of events for our benefit and will serve as an excellent opportunity to determine our way forward and an ambitious timeframe.
rapporteur. – madam president, since the start of the covid-19 pandemic, our cities have been fighting for survival. they had no other choice but to face high rates of infection, dwindling economic activity and very rapidly exacerbating social inequalities. we have also seen them showing leadership in managing the crisis on the front lines, helping to limit the spread of the coronavirus and mitigating its impact on the ground. and when we all thought that things could not get any worse, they did, at least in hungary. prime minister orbán has used the coronavirus response effort just as a pretext to take funding away from cities and towns. and why? what is the reason? it’s very simple because many of them had the audacity to elect opposition mayors. a colleague of mine is deputy mayor in charge of development of szeged, the third largest city in hungary, and he very regularly tells me that the government does not give any access to meaningful documentation about eu development aid, let alone consult him about the needs of his constituents. and mayors all across hungary tell us just the same. they are ringing the alarm bell that eu funds are used as a political weapon to starve independent institutions of their financial resources. now, why am i telling you about these examples right now? because i believe that engaging local stakeholders is the only guarantee to ensure this crisis relief reaches those communities who need it the most. in our report, we urge the commission to make direct funding opportunities available to local and regional authorities and thus creating a powerful instrument that will enable the fight against political favouritism. and in light of the upcoming ecj ruling about the application of the rule of law conditionality mechanism, i believe direct funding is more crucial than ever because cities should never have to pay the price of the wrongdoing of governments. they are not responsible for that. renew europe has been calling for directly accessible eu funding to be part of the conditionality mechanism since day one. now it’s time to make it happen. while working on this report, my aim was to prepare a general set of recommendations, addressing some of the most serious challenges that the urban areas are expected to face in the post—covid-19 era. and while lack of proper funding, i believe, is one of the biggest ones, the list is not exhaustive, so i am only going to mention a few other points. let’s note that more than 75% of europeans live in urban areas and thus face very specific urban challenges, such as the lack of affordable housing, the risk of social exclusion, the increasing climate—related disasters, the deepening digital divide and also the growing gender inequalities. because in addition to health risks, women are more vulnerable to the economic risks that are also associated with the covid-19 pandemic, and they could find themselves further behind when the crisis ends. and while social distancing measures were necessary strategies to curb the spread of the virus, staying at home has put many women at risk of domestic violence, without an adequate network of support. and how could direct funding help cities to address this? they could use the money to support helplines for domestic violence victims or strengthen the care sector or support women to learn digital skills. cities can help us face these challenges, but first, we need to rethink and reform our existing structures because neither the pandemic emergency nor the future threats will limit themselves to our legal boundaries. so let’s be brave, and let’s move forward.
madam president, please. i come from a country where the cancer death rate is getting worse every year. in hungary, more people die of cancer per capita than in any other european country. now, you might say that these terrible statistics are just country-specific, but the situation is more tragic than that. if we leave the countries alone, if we leave the patients alone, then in the next 10 years, the number of cancer cases in europe will increase by 24 percent, making cancer the most deadly disease in europe. we all know that early detection of cancer can save lives, lives. we need much bolder plans and solutions than we have now! it is not enough to deal with such a serious health crisis at the level of the member states, we need common solutions, a strong european health union. let's do this in memory of our loved ones, in defense of our families and our fellow citizens.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, it’s a pity that we don’t have enough time to discuss something as important as this report on human rights. maybe it would be better not to put this report to debate at the same time as the two other reports on security and foreign affairs. but parliament decides how to organise its work, so it is not for me to consider doing it in another way. but believe me, today is an important day. we are discussing something that’s very important and there is some criticism and some members saying ‘words, words, words’, like mr glucksmann. maybe i agree with you that there is a lot of words, but, you know, words also have power and not only the word of power, but the power of words. when you don’t have any of the word power, you have to use words. but not only words, not only words. we do something, we do a lot of things, don’t dismiss what we are doing. certainly, we have to do more and we have to gather all our efforts and to keep in touch with the private sector. one of these days, soon, we will present a due diligence and we have been pushing for it. we will present a due diligence in order to make our firms, our entrepreneurs that are investing all around the world to defend human rights on practical terms. because when you put a small boy to work in a mine, you’re tampering with human rights as much as when you do a coup d’état. it is not only political rights, there are also the socio-economic rights that are an integral part of human rights. be it about covid-19 pandemic, about anything that’s with media freedom, hate speech, all that counts. and i think that we have a step up diplomacy, strategic communication to implement our human rights plan on defending democracy. this report contributes to this effort, i see that we have to continue joining forces with the united nations to prepare communication material engaging firms. as far as we don’t engage in the world of business to protect human rights, the socio-economic human rights will be very difficult and that’s why we are working on the due diligence that soon will make an important contribution to the practical, concrete implementation of the fight against people who violate human rights.
i am very grateful to the rapporteur for the debate and for the conclusions of the high representative. i think it shows that there is a majority, a consensus, in this parliament on the importance of putting human rights and values at the centre of our foreign policy action. there is a majority that wants more europe, a stronger europe and a europe of values. i also think that there is a clear message from the majority of this parliament: human rights have no ideology. human rights are universal and human rights are not a bag from which one can choose what suits his personal criteria or his possible ideological instrumentation. many citizens of the world look at us and recognize in this space of the european union a democracy, a democracy that is able to defend the rights of its citizens but also the rights of the citizens of the world. and that is why this debate is still going on, the sessions of the subcommittee on human rights are still going on. that's why they're looking for this shelter. and that means that effectively, we have to be up to par. i believe that we can now say that our greatest interests, the interests of the european union, lie in ensuring that our values are strictly respected, both at home in the member states, by ensuring a basic principle, laid down in the treaties, of coherence and credibility, and at the level of our foreign policy. let me end the debate on this report by reminding all those who are suffering persecution, who are suffering repression, who are being subjected to unjust trials like those in nicaragua, as well as all the families who are also seeking justice for the abduction of their children, for the murder of their relatives. they should also know that with this report we are sending the message today that the european parliament will continue to stand by them. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 16 february 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the report welcomes the recognition that special attention should be paid to the protection of persons belonging to religious minorities. it is essential that the commission finally appoint a special representative for the promotion of religious freedom outside the eu. the document also highlights the need for human rights dialogue with faith-based organisations. the report calls on the eu's partner countries to protect national, ethnic and linguistic minorities and to preserve their culture. it also addresses the causes of migration, and, following the principle of local assistance, stresses the importance of improving education and living conditions. however, much of the report remained unbalanced. the left-liberal majority in the ep uses different social groups to exert ideological pressure. the report includes ratification of the istanbul convention for enforcing gender ideology and the development of legal pathways for migration. it also supports the rejection of unanimity in member states on human rights issues. the left would strengthen sexual and reproductive health and rights, but rejected the proposal to protect mothers. nor did he support the amendment respecting the right of children to be brought up in accordance with the religious, philosophical or pedagogical principles of their parents. despite the partial results, the defense of human rights has turned into an ideological war, depriving the report of its original purpose. instead of helping its partner countries to protect human rights, the union uses it as an instrument of ideological pressure.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs katalin cseh, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a european parliament recommendation to the council and the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on corruption and human rights (2021/2066 (ini)) (a9-0012/2022). i would remind members that no spontaneous speeches or blue cards will be accepted in any debate at this sitting. as in the past, parliament will also be able to receive contacts from its liaison offices in the member states. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
rapporteur. – mr president, with this report an overwhelming majority of parliament makes it clear that the european union needs to stand up against authoritarians and the way to do this is to go after their money. this demand has never been as important as today when vladimir putin’s russia is on the brink of invading ukraine and we have to face it. putin has spent 20 years freely stashing his money in the west, and now he feels like he can do anything. we need to show him and the other authoritarian criminals that this is not the case and he cannot. because just think about what’s happening here – authoritarian regimes are robbing their own people, squeezing resources from them, trashing their human rights and then they take this money to buy luxury property in italy or art in paris or company assets in frankfurt. and when a journalist writes about it, then expensive lawyers just show up to muzzle them. all this is profoundly immoral – immoral and against everything europe stands for. this is also a slap in the face for those people who suffer from authoritarian repression and, yes, also a slap in the face for every ukrainian who is terrified of a devastating war. but we have real power here. we have real leverage because putin relies on access to europe. he needs to keep his oligarchs happy with their yacht parties in our ports and their money stashed in our banks. we need to use this leverage now. so, in this report, we call for a more effective sanctions framework against oligarchs. we also call for stricter due diligence and transparency in sectors such as finance and real estate – because let’s face it, this is where shady money finds their way into the legitimate economy. and we also call for financial support and legal protection for activists, whistleblowers and journalists who are our strongest allies in this fight and who should never be silenced or intimidated by autocrats and the oligarchs who they investigate. we have to use our leverage and we have to purge tainted money out of the eu once and for all. so, let’s face it, there is a very clear divide emerging in this parliament. the pro-european centre wants to stand up against the growing influence of russia or china, while the far right, unfortunately led by the orbáns, the le pens and the salvinis are actively blocking it. hungary’s foreign minister, péter szijjártó, for instance, he keeps saying that the eu should lift even the existing sanctions regime on russia and that sanctions don’t work. well, i have to say this is the only way to show that actually they do work because no surprise that putin’s trojan horses are campaigning against them. opaque business dealings can always count in the background. so we are calling for the eu to very thoroughly monitor this. we have to look into the financial ties between the kremlin and the far-right parties, and we have to scrutinise large-scale investment projects financed by moscow or beijing. russia, for instance, is building a nuclear power plant in hungary, a eur 12.5 billion project awarded without a public tender. china is involved in a grand railway construction project and in the building of the fudan university’s budapest campus. billions of euros and the terms and conditions of these projects are classified for decades. no means to scrutinise how this money is being spent and the oligarchs connected to the prime minister are carving out their own slice. for most of the time, the eu has been passively watching on the sidelines, watching this creeping influence, despite repeated warnings about security risks that might be entailed. so it’s time to put an end to this. this set of recommendations shows a clear way how.
mr president, as we have said, corruption is an endemic problem. it's found on every continent. it is not specific to a continent or a culture; it is characteristic of power and non-transparency. corruption is devastating to the availability, quality and accessibility of human rights-related goods and services, and there is a strong correlation between corruption and serious human rights violations. however, the global sanctions regime did not include corruption as such in the phenomena of serious human rights violations. i think it is necessary to correct the situation and to integrate corruption into this mechanism. to give an example: the united states, in 2020, sanctioned a certain mr. dan gertler, an israeli tycoon operating in the democratic republic of congo who stole over 4 billion dollars from the congolese people through opaque mining operations. when the united states sanctioned mr gertler, the european union, by not sanctioning him, gave him access to operations which were no longer possible in the united states. thus, thanks to this haven for corrupt people, the european union, he was able to continue stealing the money of the congolese people. there are hundreds of examples like this in the world today, which we accept on european territory. we have to end this.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, this was an interesting debate, which testifies to the need to keep our attention on the nexus between corruption and human rights and our external action. let me highlight once again our commitment, as the european union, to fight against corruption at global, multilateral, regional and country level, whilst always addressing the very real link with human rights. our approach is comprehensive, whilst acknowledging that there is no one—size—fits—all approach to dealing with corruption and appropriate solutions must always be context-specific. we, as a union, have an impressive toolbox at our disposal, which we are strengthening further. you, as a house, have your budgetary control powers, the rule of law mechanism, olaf, the european public prosecutor’s office and the ombudsman. we also have the money. for the next seven years, we plan to support work on anti-corruption in all its forms in the vast majority of partner countries across the world, and we are also committing more funds to our human-rights-defender programmes and the civil-society organisations that can be valuable allies in this global effort. the european union is not a paradise to kleptocrats, as ms arena said. the european union will be hell for kleptocrats, and i take this opportunity to salute the work of the rapporteur because her report matters.
rapporteur. – mr president, colleagues, this is my first text as a rapporteur in human rights, and i have to say i’m very proud of it. together with my great shadow rapporteur colleagues, we managed to put together an extensive, but also ambitious, set of recommendations that draws up a clear strategy for the council and for the external services to follow. i believe the two main strengths we have in this report are its pragmatism, but also its complex approach. it is indeed a pragmatic text because i am convinced that the way to pursue a value-based eu foreign policy is not only through big words, but also through practical instruments. for instance, we should never forget that we are a market of 450 million people, and this gives us very concrete tools to promote our values across the globe. we can leverage our trade agreements, our financing programmes and the corporate value chains to promote our human rights and good governance all across the globe. and the other important message, i believe, is that global problems are interlinked and we have to see them in their complexity. take just the example of climate action, human rights and anti-corruption. communities all around the world suffer from polluted air, deforestation, polluted waters, and the very fact that it happens to them is an attack on their rights. but from the philippines to colombia, there is always a network of corruption in the background: oligarchs, bribery, organised crime. we need to recognise these links so that we can step up to fight for the environment, and we need our mandatory due-diligence law to make sure that no european companies are complicit in these crimes because the health of our planet also depends on the health of our democracy. and finally, this parliament stands with the activists, with the human rights defenders, with the investigative journalists worldwide who are on the forefront of this fight against kleptocracies. designing programmes to support them by all financial and legal means possible is one of the key priorities of this report.
mr president the title of the report on the removal of non-tariff and non-tax barriers in the single market seems harmless at first sight, since its original aim is to promote the more efficient functioning of the internal market. however, it is unfortunate that the left-wing mps tried to smuggle into this report a text that specifically attacks hungary in relation to the child protection law. sadly, many people do not care about the healthy physical and mental development of children and their only goal is to spread gender ideology without limits. i believe that we can only succeed if we in the european parliament tackle the real problems and work to make the single market work smoothly. only then can the european union be truly competitive on the global stage.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr lagondinsky and the committee on legal affairs, and all those who contributed to this important legislative own—initiative report, which is very close to my heart and also very close to my work at the commission. this report deals with issues of particular importance for the internal market: fundamental rights and the european democratic space. all necessary components of our way of life. associations and other non-profit organisations play a central role in our societies. they are fundamental players in the social cohesion of territories, as well as in job creation and growth. we count around 2.8 million entities operating in the social economy ecosystem in europe, including the non-profits. they employ around 13.6 million people and provide many daily solutions for anticipating and tackling challenges that we all face in our daily lives. these entities have done so particularly brilliantly during the pandemic by supporting the most disadvantaged, by providing first aid, health and care services, by contributing to the professional reintegration of many citizens, associations and other non-profits have shown support, cohesion and solidarity throughout europe. they are now contributing to paving the way for sustainable and inclusive recovery. it is therefore very crucial that these organisations be granted the conditions conducive to their development so that we can optimise their work. this is precisely that we are engaged in – fostering a supporting environment for civil society. as such, we at the commission support the objectives outlined in this report, making sure that non-profits enjoy freedom of establishment, provision of services and free movement of capital – all essential to their work. we should also ensure an enabling environment protecting their fundamental rights. to this end, your report proposed to consider the legislative path, both through a regulation that would create a statute for a european association and through a directive that would establish common minimum standards for non—profits. as regards your call for a new european legal forum for associations, the commission does agree on the importance of pursuing a comprehensive approach to facilitate activities for these entities. for many years now, we in the commission have been very active and determined in this matter. nevertheless, and we have to admit this, previous attempts dating back already to the nineties to create a european association statute failed because there was lack of progress during the interinstitutional discussion. this was even more evident recently with a withdrawal in 2015 of a proposal to create a european foundation statute. therefore, we must now examine in detail again your call for the creation of a european standard for these targeted entities. we shall carefully consider the most appropriate legal basis and policy options to make sure that the main policy objectives at hand are attained, fostering european cooperation and strengthening european democracy and the internal market. however, there are also questions to be addressed that go beyond the question of this statute. we at the commission welcome the fact that the proposed regulation establishes a cooperation mechanism on matters linked to associations between the national and the european level, which is very often the case of interaction for these entities. regarding the envisaged directive aiming at establishing minimum common standards, the commission notes that the proposed scope is broader and that it builds on several shared objectives. to ensure that non-profit organisations can fully reap the benefits of the internal market freedoms when operating in the european union, it also is important to protect the freedom of association to shield non-profits from undue influence and strengthen the european democratic space. on this specific issue, we can build on an already well-established framework that we are constantly strengthening. let me recall very shortly that the commission has already done important work in these areas in the past. the action plan on social economy, adopted only last december, is a major relevant policy milestone to this end. we also announced, for next year, the intention to present the council recommendation on developing social economy framework conditions that will invite policy makers in member states to create policy that is better adapted to these operations. the recommendations should also help address certain concerns raised in your resolution. with regard to the free movement of capital for non-profits, the commission will publish guidance clarifying the existing rules on tax treatment of cross-border public benefit donations that affects many of these operations, and on the implementation of the principle of non-discrimination when this operation involve many member states. finally, the commission will continue to build evidence looking at the results of relevant studies to identify barriers and to map the legal regimes of associations in the union. these results are expected by april of this year. all these actions stemming from our social economy action plan can respond to most of the concerns raised by your resolution. i agree, however, that they are not a comprehensive response to the resolution as a whole. this is why, in addition to these targeted actions, the commission will resort to union legislative proposals, preferably based on a legal basis entailing the ordinary legislative method, to reach the objectives promoted in your draft resolution. of course, i need not stress that this will be done within the respect of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and the strictest respect of the competence of our member states in these areas.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, civil society is the beating heart of our european values and our democracy. still, in many member states, civic space is shrinking as governments are taking every step they can to exercise control over society. the non-profit organizations that are threatened by such governments need european minimum standards and legal protection. the report we are debating now is essential because it will finally put in place a long—awaited european legal environment to nurture civil society. dear colleagues, it is our duty to protect our european values and strengthen civic space. this report does exactly that, and i urge the commission to act upon this own-initiative report and provide a protective legislative framework for civil society in europe.
madam president, in yalta exactly 77 years ago, superpowers divided europe for half a century, ushered in the era of cold war and shoved central and eastern europe behind the iron curtain against its will. once again, russia is aiming to divide our continent by extending its sphere of influence. putin is reviving the brezhnev doctrine and the cold war rhetoric. mr borrell, you mentioned exemplary unity and solidarity within the eu while we have viktor orbán acting as a fifth column within our community, echoing moscow’s position, blocking nato initiatives, downplaying the impact of sanctions, betraying not only its allies but over 100 000 hungarians living in ukraine’s zakarpattia. i was happy to hear mr legutko, speaker for the ecr group, to recount the european collaborators of moscow. representatives of pis, the polish ruling party, could help the eu by influencing their key ally in hungary, viktor orbán. they are our best hope, at least in this regard, until the hungarian elections on 3 april.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the good news is the partial withdrawal of russian armed forces from the ukrainian border. but this news is accompanied, indeed preceded, by statements by ukrainian president zelensky and german chancellor scholz, in the previous days, which do not leave us alone, because in those statements zelensky says that ukrainian membership in nato is only a dream and chancellor scholz says that ukrainian membership in nato is not on the political agenda. we cannot claim this as a victory, we cannot let our guard down, we cannot declare ourselves satisfied. the 36 letters from russia to the nato countries, to which we have responded with one voice as the european union and nato, are excellent news, but under one voice, therefore under one letter, there must be one policy. nobody forced us to be almost totally dependent on russian gas, and yet we did. no one has forced us to retreat very often from some of the more complex geopolitical scenarios, for example in africa, to make room for new russian geopolitical ambitions. i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter.
madam president, let’s pause for a moment, and let the dark truth sink in. for the first time in decades, there is a very real chance that there will be war in europe. as we debate in this very house, there are still russian troops staring down ukraine on the eu’s eastern neighbourhood. we’ve all read the news that they might attack today. many of us in this chamber come from countries bordering ukraine. this is real. this would be our war. we might not be fighting it, but we will feel the consequences. and we should be responsible for preventing it. and yes, we are in the 24th hour, but europe still has not exhausted all of its opportunities. we need to leave no doubt that a war will have severe repercussions. and this must include suspending the nord stream 2 project or closing down europe’s financial system for russian state-sponsored actors. and in the longer term, we need to rethink our ties with russia. if putin is capable of holding a continent on high alert for months, europe must have the tools to do the same. this is an existential question. before achieving this, all the commission’s talk about the geopolitical commission remains, unfortunately, empty.
in writing. young people are going through a critical time. the pandemic has affected them both socially and mentally. the risk of unemployment among young people under 30 has doubled in the last two years, and the instability of education has reduced their chances of preparing for a changing labour market. all of these have had a huge impact on mental health and overall quality of life. the mental health of young people is a particular concern. we need a european plan for managing mental health problems, especially among young people. civic participation of young people should be particularly encouraged. civics offers significant benefits both to society and to the individual, in particular by reducing the risk of suffering from mental health deficiencies. the european year of youth should also encourage us to reflect on the situation of young people in rural areas. the increased support for young farmers in the new cap is welcome, but young people need support beyond the agricultural sector, through actions that give them access to social and community services and especially to appropriate educational services.
in writing. young people are at the heart of today's debate and the work of the european parliament. the european year of youth 2022 has been designated to highlight its role in building a better future; because young people are the future of europe and it is on them that all our energies must be focused. the pandemic has been a difficult time, as it has literally 'broken the back' of innovative action and 'put on hold' a number of activities vital to our young people. youth unemployment and social exclusion rates across the european union remain high, while the closure of cultural, educational and sporting activities has deprived the younger generation of opportunities for socialisation and learning and affected their mental health in ways that may still be unknown to us. we must listen with respect and responsibility to the concerns of young people and focus on finding solutions and solutions to bridge the gap between education and the labour market. we must break the taboo of mental health and give it the attention it deserves. it is time to move from words to action, making full use of existing programmes but also of new initiatives.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the rule of law and the consequences of the ecj ruling (2022/2535(rsp)). i would like to remind members that for all the debates of this part-session there will be no catch—the—eye procedure, no blue cards will be accepted and, furthermore, as during recent part-sessions, remote interventions from parliament’s liaison offices in the member states are foreseen. i would also like to remind you that interventions in the chamber will continue to be made from the central rostrum. i therefore kindly invite you to keep an eye on the speakers’ list and to approach the rostrum when your speaking time is imminent. a few comments first from my side. i think we can agree that today is a good day, because the european court of justice has confirmed parliament’s long—standing position that the union’s budget must be protected against breaches of the rule of law. values matter, and there is no more time to waste. we have to say that the monitoring of the situation in the member states is not enough, and i now expect the european commission to fully apply the conditionality mechanism in europe, according to which the rule of law is non—negotiable. so on this, i would like to invite, on behalf of the council, clément beaune.
president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for inviting the presidency of the council to take part in this debate on a subject so fundamental to the functioning of our union. the political debate is at the heart of our priorities. our common values, such as democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, are the cornerstone of our european union - even more so in the exceptional circumstances we continue to face, due to the crisis we are experiencing. the president of the republic said it in your chamber, on behalf of france and the presidency of the council: the rule of law is our treasure. the court of justice's judgments on the regulation on a general system of conditionality for the protection of the union's budget were delivered this morning, so only a few hours ago. we will all have to examine the court of justice's decision in detail, but its meaning is very clear: its validity is confirmed. as i said, the court's judgment was extremely clear on the dismissal of the appeals and we now have a new legal instrument in our hands, which was adopted by the co-legislators, the european parliament and the council. i can already tell you that on behalf of the presidency we welcome the legal clarification which was essential. as i said, this regulation was adopted in accordance with the legislative procedure. we must therefore now apply it in the way that it is intended. it was, i would also remind you, a subject of political discussion, which had been raised by the heads of state or government at the european summit in summer 2020, then discussed at a legal and legislative level by the european parliament and the council, and had been the subject of specific political discussions at the european council in december 2020. so we have now, i think, had a long debate on this subject. it is now up to the european commission, in accordance with this text, to take the necessary measures to implement the regulation. first, in the light of the court's judgments, the commission can and must finalise the guidelines it has undertaken to develop to ensure the proper application of this regulation. the european commission will then have to implement this instrument in accordance with the precise modalities laid down in it. if the european commission considers that the conditions set out in article 4 of the regulation are met, it could then send a written notification to the member state or member states concerned. i would remind you that this is a regulation which may concern any member state. it is obviously not targeting any one in particular, but it will be up to the commission to carry out the necessary investigations and, if necessary, the required notifications. i can tell you at this stage that the council and the presidency are prepared to play the role assigned to us by this essential legislative work. we have, with this regulation, added to our legal arsenal. it complements the existing article 7 procedures and the more informal country review tools, which are very important and which we carry out in the general affairs council. i would like to say in this connection that, under the procedure provided for in article 7, we will resume the hearings: one will be on poland as from next week. the country review i mentioned will cover five new countries by march. to mark the importance we attach to the rule of law issue, i also wanted to dedicate the informal meeting of european affairs ministers early next march to the rule of law issue, to have an open debate on this issue, how our tools are working today, and to work together by giving each member state a voice so that we can speak out on this issue. in any case, do not doubt for a moment our commitment - that of the council and that of the presidency which i represent today - to ensure that the rule of law is defended and protected and that all the instruments, one more today, are mobilised.
member of the commission. – madam president, the regulation on the general regime of conditionality is an historic achievement for the union. it equips the union with a specific tool to protect its budget from breaches of the principles of the rule of law. together with a range of long-established additional instruments, it makes sure that taxpayers’ money goes where it is needed, and creates added value for citizens. today’s hot-off-the-press rulings are being analysed as we speak. now that we have the court’s rulings, the commission will finalise the guidelines on the practical application of the regulation. we are well advanced on preparing the guidelines. you are familiar with this document, as we have consulted the parliament and member states. so our aim is to proceed quickly with adapting them in the light of the court’s ruling. we cannot make concessions when it comes to protecting both the union’s financial interests and the founding values of the european union, and we have a choice of tools to address both issues. the key is choosing the right tool for the specific problems we need to solve. i want to stress this: all our efforts here must be about solving problems. the conditionality regulation is part of the union’s budgetary toolbox. its specificity is that it aims to protect specifically the union budget from relevant breaches of the principle of the rule of law, which today was one of the core outcomes of the court ruling. in fact, it requires a sufficiently direct connection between such breaches and the union’s budget or the union’s financial interests. the regulation complements the rules of the common provisions regulation for the union funds. the financial regulation checks audits, investigations by the european anti—fraud office (olaf) and the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo), and the resulting financial corrections. when it comes to protecting the union’s founding values, the commission and the union have a number of instruments at our disposal, independent of links to the union budget. this rule-of-law toolbox consists, among other things, of infringement procedures, article 7 of the treaty, the procedure in the european semester, and the annual rule of law report. the instruments vary because they are tailored to address the specific situations in member states, aiming at promoting, preventing and responding to rule of law issues. we are currently managing the largest union budget that there has ever been. let me assure you that the commission is set to make optimal use of all the tools at its disposal to protect the union budget and the union’s financial interests against threats, actual or potential – and this without losing time. in this spirit, the commission has been applying this budgetary conditionality regime since the start, at the beginning of 2021, and we remain fully committed to enforcing it. we have been monitoring the situation across member states, and we are working to identify possible breaches in member states that may fall within the scope of application of the regulation. last year, as you are well aware, we sent letters to two member states to request information to feed our analyses. this has set into motion an exchange with the said member states, and we are currently analysing the substantive and comprehensive replies. now we are at the stage where the court of justice has confirmed the validity of the general regime of conditionality, which we, of course, very much welcomed, as do, i suppose, the majority in this house. so we can go ahead. the commission will carefully analyse the reasoning of the two judgments and take them into account for the ongoing work under the general regime of conditionality. we need to have all these elements in place to ensure a solid and fair process, and we need this solid process precisely because we are the ones taking our responsibilities, and we are the ones who will, no doubt, be challenged at every step. as president von der leyen also confirmed today, the conditions of the regulations are fulfilled and we will act now with determination. today’s judgment confirmed that we are on the right track and, may i say, we didn’t expect anything else.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the european parliament welcomes today’s decision of the court of justice of the european union. we welcome it with the very large majority, with the majority of pro-european groups who believe in the rule of law. european funds are money from the people of europe for the people of europe. this is money that has to be protected; it is money from the people, for the people. it is not money for politicians or governments attacking the rule of law. this legislation, confirmed today by the court, is good for the people. it protects the money of the people, and citizens have to know that any politician who questions this legislation, or who questions the rule of law conditionality, intends to break the rule of law, and thus to harm their own people. in the coming years, the european union will be spending more money than ever. we need to make sure that money reaches the people who need that money, the people for whom it was intended, and this piece of legislation is very helpful in this respect. today’s court ruling in favour of the rule of law gives no time for celebration. this is the time to start work. we say from here very clearly to the european commission: apply this legislation and apply it now. be the guardian of the treaties, as you have to be. the european commission has to apply the rule of law mechanism without any delay. this is our clear expectation. a law is a law and it has to be applied, so we expect the european commission to trigger this mechanism without any further delay, and at the same time, we expect the council to fulfil its duties and not to delay the procedure and the adoption of any decisions. the mechanism shall, of course, apply immediately, irrespective of political colours of any governments or of the political situation in member states. whenever money is in danger, it has to be recovered immediately and the flow of more money that risks being misused has to be stopped. no political event whatsoever should be any excuse for a delay. the european parliament will not tolerate any unjustified delays. we expect the commission to put forward the cases that it had enough time to prepare.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i am sure many of us share the view that today is a day of victory for this parliament. justice has taken our side, the side of those who work, defend and stand for an instrument of conditionality between the budget and the rule of law in europe, because we argued that it is not the market that supports the european project, but the common values we share and the defence of the rule of law. unfortunately, history has taught us that where there is no law, tyrants rule. without the rule of law, democracy becomes the dictatorship of the majority, which feels legitimate to oppress minorities, those who think differently, and thus establish the single thought. this, which is unfortunately happening in some member states, is a recipe for disaster: a disaster for democracy and a disaster for the european project. the european commission's first responsibility is to be the guarantor of the treaties. the commission has so far refused to activate the conditionality mechanism because it wanted to wait for the ruling of the european court of justice. well, we have a verdict. it's not time to wait any longer. mr. hahn, act now. i wish i could say that to the president of the european commission, mrs von der leyen, who should be here in this house today. so i say to you from a distance but with the same emphasis: act now! over the last decade, viktor orban has used his power to control the opposition, the judiciary, the media, religious groups, universities... for too long the union has allowed this kind of behaviour, which is incompatible with european values. and for too long, too, the epp group has given it shelter in its group, allowing it to grow and become stronger. this has given wings to ultraconservative and anti-european groups. these groups intend to use the institutions to denigrate groups such as refugees and asylum seekers or the lgbtq community, attack women and scapegoat anyone who criticizes their policies. in the face of the european union's inaction, they have been gradually conquering more territory, each day with fewer complexes, with more insolence. every day we lose is another step we'll have to take to recover. it will also have to be recovered by all those who from poland and hungary defend freedom, democracy, equality, respect for differences - in a word, all those who also defend the european union in hungary and poland. the last example is the suspension of polish judge joanna hetnarowicz-sikora, who has been treated as a criminal, and her dignity and office have been violated. we are in a situation which was unimaginable just a few years ago: that one of the members of the european union should suffer a regression in rights and become an autocracy. it's a new phenomenon, one that we weren't prepared for, and we've had to create this instrument of conditionality, these tools. let us use them now that we have them, because we cannot allow european taxpayers' money to go into the pockets of those who undermine the common european values. the commission cannot be looking the other way. we've had this mechanism for a year. no one in this house wants to harm hungary and poland. on the contrary, i did. it is that people trust the european union, that being european citizens means something. he trusts us to stop this authoritarian drift. this nightmare must end. it is unacceptable that these things should happen in the european union. mr hahn, mrs von der leyen, you must act now!
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, this morning the european court of justice made it crystal clear: the rule of law mechanism is 100% lawful. shortly after, the hungarian minister of justice held a press conference and she said that the verdict was motivated by brussels’ desire to discipline hungary for its so-called child protection law. their main message is that brussels and the lgbt lobby want to force sex-change operations on hungarian kindergarten children. and yes, this is not a joke: this is really the lie they are pushing through their propaganda machine day by day. never mind that the court case had nothing to do with orban’s homophobic law. never mind that the homophobic law has nothing to do with child protection, and also never mind that the court is in luxembourg. this tells you everything about orban’s toxic brand of populism and why it is such an existential threat to the eu: because they despise liberal institutions. they wage war on facts and the truth, and their vicious arrogance is poisoning the good-faith cooperation this union is built on. they know they are lying and they are doing it anyway. this is why the commission’s dialogues on the rule of law crisis are failing. this is why i am so proud of this european parliament and of our renew europe group, who are on the forefront of this fight. we created the rule of law mechanism together; we were principled and consistent; we did not let gaslighting and trolling stop us. and today we got confirmation from the court. so we don’t want to hear any more that president von der leyen needs to draft more guidelines or write some more informal letters. being deeply concerned for the 20th time is just not good enough. the commission must not waste a single minute more and must apply the mechanism right now.
madam president, i would have loved to congratulate personally ms von der leyen for her successful procrastination on implementing the rule of law mechanism. please pass it on to her mr commissioner. also, we have been waiting over a year for the ecj to state the obvious. if a country signs up for eu membership, it should respect its rules and should refrain from misappropriating european taxpayers’ money. well done. after the verdict this morning, we heard the response of hungarian justice minister judit varga echoed by fidesz meps here, telling the tale of a sinister plot conjured by a soros network and an lgbt lobby against the hungarian people. now, as far as the hungarian voters are concerned, they are now faced with a straightforward dilemma in the elections on 3 april: a dictatorial regime deliberately losing funds it is entitled to and turning to russia and china for finances, or a pro—democracy, pro-eu coalition. in the meantime, we expect the commission to act.
the rapporteur. - mr president! heavy artillery bombardments of residential areas, nuclear power plants attacked with weapons, civilians in humanitarian catastrophe, a population doomed to suffer: these are just a few moments of the horror that is happening in the european union's neighbour, ukraine, at this very moment. bombs, missiles and machine guns are driving millions away! children and families are forced to leave everything behind and flee into the unknown, and when they cross the border in flight, who is the first to help them, first? not soldiers, not politicians, not officials, but ordinary people, ordinary people and ngos who want nothing more than to be refugees, to live and work in peace and quiet. they are the ones who have realized that we can only create a better world if we do something about it, that we ultimately depend on each other, regardless of nationality, language and national borders. i was at the hungarian-ukrainian border last week and i am bringing you a message from the civil helpers there. they ask that we help them in their work and do everything we can to ensure that they can do it without interference. they ask us to support them, those who, in line with the eu's core values, stand for humanity and justice in everyday life. they ask us to protect them from oppressive governments that persecute them in the russian way. and their message is especially important now that we're talking about this report. the report clearly shows that governments in several member states are also hindering the functioning of ngos. the shrinking of civil space is directly linked to the eu's failure to uphold its core values of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights over the past decade. this led to the emergence of hybrid regimes in the heart of europe. and these regimes not only use the pseudo-civil organizations that they fund to undermine the very essence of civil society, but they have also normalized attacks on non-governmental organizations that are independent of the government. they take legal, official, administrative action against organisations that perform public tasks by compensating for government failures. the eu should respond decisively to these forms of abuse of power from the outset. we must create the european legal and administrative environment that will provide adequate guarantees for the establishment and smooth functioning of civil society, because without independent civil organisations, without an independent civil sphere, we cannot speak of democracy. a european framework is therefore needed to clarify the cross-border possibilities for funding ngos, so that european citizens can donate to ngos in any eu country on equal terms. and we must also give a political response to political actions involving civilians, and we must give a clear and decisive political response. this is why a civil society strategy at european level is needed and why the examination of the state of civil society should be reflected in the annual rule of law report! but not just at the mention level, but in a separate chapter. my fellow members, last but not least, i would like to thank the support of the political groups and the shadow rapporteurs. i felt from the outset that, given the importance of the report and its complementarity, the political groups had given their full support to the creation of the strongest and most forward-looking report possible. in this light, i ask the commission to act on the proposal as soon as possible so that we can establish all the bases for the protection of civilians during this cycle. thank you so much in advance.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this report is contradictory. on the one hand, it calls for the expansion of space for civil society, and on the other hand, it narrows that same space, setting a value framework within which civil society should develop. the framework which this report imposes, and in particular the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, is very clear. he emphasizes lgbt and similar associations as well as associations to help illegal immigrants. poland and hungary are criticized, and not a word is said about all the other countries where christian-based organizations are totally discriminated against, receiving no money from national governments. on the other hand, we have the associations on the left of the political spectrum that get almost no money from the citizens, but they get huge money from national governments and european institutions. and that money makes up the vast majority of their budget. what are these ngos that governments are paying the lion's share of their budget to? civil society in the european union looks very bad. they're not really civil society organizations anymore, but they're institutions that promote the ideas of the politicians who fund them. you cannot, from a political level, define the profile of civil society. that profile should be determined by the citizens themselves. that's why it's called civil society. so let civil society develop freely and be pluralist, consistent and just!
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, the norm should be that states support, in both legal and financial terms, a flourishing civil society – as watchdogs, as service providers, as representatives of minorities, as central actors in our democracies. but what’s the reality? in italy, search and rescue organisations are harassed and persecuted since 2017. and i’m speaking about iuventa, open arms, sea-watch, msf. i think it’s important to name them. in croatia, individual activists from the organisation are you syrious are being persecuted by the state. in poland, the courageous lgbti activists from atlas of hate are being persecuted by regions and local communities. so, add to that, to this situation, the laws around funding and registrations that hamper civil society. this is eu 2022. so what are you doing, the commission? we have heard you speaking for two years now, but nothing is happening. it is of democratic, existential importance. civil society is central to our democracies and you must act now.
mr president the free and undisturbed functioning of civil society organisations is an important european tradition. however, there is no reason to grant these organisations special treatment or privileges. it is unacceptable that some ngos deliberately break the law, or ignore official instructions. in recent years, there has been a massive increase in the number of ngos working with smugglers, bringing hundreds of illegal migrants across the mediterranean to europe. recently it has become clear that a network of organisations serving leftist aims is manipulating european political debates in a hypocritical, industrial way, and the european parliament is about to exempt them from the rules? we reject any attempt to remove the accountability of ngos, the safeguards for their legal and transparent functioning. they should be subject to the same rules as any other organisation. it is neither justified nor permissible to put them above the law and take them out of compliance with the rules of the member states.
mr president, on 12 november 2019, hundreds of peaceful protesters walked the beach on the spanish-french border at la jonquera. as they left, many were held by the police on both sides of the border. on the french side, the gendarmerie gave them traffic tickets, but those that were detained in spain are facing criminal trial and may end up with prison sentences. so is the right to protest not the same on both sides of the border? well, obviously not. the spanish ‘gag law’, the ley mordaza, gives ample leverage to criminalise dissidents, and mr sánchez, who ran for election promising to repeal this law, has done nothing of the sort. on the contrary, the police continue fabricating criminal cases and spanish judges play along. and then we have president von der leyen going to madrid, and she has the nerve to celebrate spanish commitment to democracy. give me a break! the war in ukraine cannot be the excuse to forget about the rule of law. if scrutiny of the rule of law in member states is blurred by the fog of war, mr putin is already winning. if this war teaches us something, it’s that if we don’t take these things seriously, we become weaker and the prospect of autocracy becomes more and more real.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, those who sleep in a democracy will wake up in a dictatorship, and civil society is part of democracy. we may not like it many times, we may not have the same goals, the same views many times, but we should respect this plurality and this activity of civil society, which is very much needed. and it shows right now in this difficult time, when thousands of ukrainians, maybe two million today, have left their homes. and it's civil society that has been much faster to respond to this situation and help in different states. this debate is about the shrinking space for civil society in europe. it's crucial, it's important because ukraine is part of europe. russia is partly part of europe too, and if we really don't want europe to look like russia today, where civil society is stifled and buried in the ground, we need to give civil society and non-profit organisations space, we need to fund them transparently and we need to be able to set clear rules for them to operate. i firmly believe that the european union can and will continue to support this work in the future.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for this debate and to reiterate the commission's commitment to ensuring that all civil society actors can work in a safe and supportive environment. in fact, when civic space shrinks, it is a sign that the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights, which are the founding values of democracy, are under threat. to protect, support and encourage civil society organisations, we must continue to work together. i would like to thank you again for the increase in budgets, particularly for support for civil society organisations. we will indeed continue, as i said, to organise funding for these organisations throughout the european union. you can be sure that your report will feed into the work of the commission. this will include further strengthening the 2022 rule of law report, including the chapter on the balances of power within the constitutional systems of the different member states. it is important that we devote a large part of this to civil society organisations and civic space. i would say specifically that we are going to include recommendations in this report for the first time, so perhaps this will be an opportunity to feed the debate. as i proposed for the first two editions, i remain at the disposal of parliament to examine all the national chapters of this report. we could discuss the evolution of civic space and the role of civil society organisations in this context. so far this has not been possible, but perhaps in the third edition we will be able to move in this direction. as i said, the 2022 report on the application of the charter will be devoted to the role of civic space in protecting and promoting the rights of the charter of fundamental rights and, in the spring, we will propose legislation on slapps, which was mentioned by many in the debate. i'm glad we're working together. i thank you again for your report and the proposals you put forward. we will continue to support civil society organisations across the european union.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. commissioner reynders, congressmen, thank you so much for your speeches of support. unfortunately, the european union's approaches to the management of civil space remain very fragmented. i'm not saying that the eu is doing nothing, but what it is doing is fragmented and seriously flawed. how much, it also shows that in hungary three days before the outbreak of the war, for political motivation, and i dare to risk, as part of the election campaign, how the hungarian authorities raided the church and civil organizations of gábor iváns, as you know. even the most basic procedural guarantees were ignored, attacking those who are still in the way of power and who, in any case, represent social solidarity, helping the most needy, often performing public tasks on behalf of the state. our report not only calls on the commission and the member states to take action, but also makes specific recommendations on how to improve the civilian space. the work we've done on this report also demonstrates how important it is for all of us, regardless of faction, to provide legal, financial support and protection to civilians and to distinguish them from the gongo, and i think this debate shows how important that is. and i would like to say to my colleagues who are not here, but who are talking about this distinction, that ngos are not left or right, they are independent. that's what this report is about, protecting that, because that's the only way they can do their job against any kind of repressive intervention. we have a common interest in stopping the russian-style policy of labeling civilians as foreign agents, because we see where it leads: to oppression, war and destruction. i ask you, colleagues, to listen to the appeal of the ngos and to vote in favour of this report, so that we can send a clear and strong signal to the commission and to the member states, so thank you very much for your support and please vote in favour of this report.
mr president, we are discussing a very relevant report with important recommendations as to how foreign interference, especially fake news, should be detected and fended off by the eu and its member states by supporting independent media. unfortunately, in some eu countries, it’s too late, as authoritarian governments have already conquered the entire media landscape, turned public broadcasting financed by eu taxpayers into a propaganda machine and – by controlling advertising revenues and resources –forced the commercial media to play by the rules of the regime. no, not in some distant third world country, but within the eu! in a country like viktor orban’s hungary. mr borrell, i was very much touched by what you said about the link between the democratic ideal and access to information. this is why i would like to recommend the establishment of a european public broadcasting and news service independent from national governments and from market pressures as well, financed from the eu budget. all citizens should have access to it in every eu language. all national broadcasters should make it available, free of charge, on a must—carry basis. it’s time to create a single european narrative instead of 27 separate ones, to strengthen our european identity and to protect our citizens from malign propaganda.
madam president, russia invaded ukraine 12 days ago. in those 12 days, the russian army razed ukrainian cities and forced hundreds of thousands of refugees to move west. what do we see when any of us open any russian news portal? then instead of bombed-out neighborhoods and attacked nuclear plants, you're faced with lies about a peace mission, a russian peace mission and ukrainian aggression. russian propaganda is so effective now, it can tear families apart. relatives exposed to disinformation are more likely to believe putin's lies than their anxious relatives in kiev's safe houses. but putin's methods do not stop at the borders of the european union. in ukraine's immediate neighbor, hungary, putin's lies are being spread to the hungarian state, and hungarian facebook is full of pages that spread russian propaganda. it was a good move for the eu to ban sputnik and russia today from its territory, but we need more steps because vladimir putin wants to take over not only ukraine, but also the consciousness of the people of europe. we can't let that happen.
madam president, colleagues, shortly after the russian aggression against ukraine, it became clear that putin miscalculated himself. his nightmare has come true in at least three areas. a multi-ethnic, young and fragile ukraine united in defiance against the russian aggression and emerged as a strong nation state. a fatuous eu that was long ridiculed for not being able to speak a single voice on any foreign policy related issue united in defiance against the russian aggressor. an eu that just weeks ago seemed desperately dependent on russian energy, cut itself loose from russian energy and united in record time to impose sanctions on the russian aggressor. colleagues we must move forward in our support for ukraine, impose harsher sanctions against russia if necessary, step up diplomatic efforts to achieve a cease fire and peace and learn from our mistakes. discard for good unanimity in the council on foreign policy-related issues and finally create a common european army.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. although the situation in ukraine is putting all the important issues in the background, climate change and environmental protection are as pressing as ever. europe's ambition to become the world's first climate-neutral continent is a major success, but it is also a challenge and an opportunity. but in a war situation, a new approach is required. we need to be at the forefront of this process by also ensuring that the green transition is fair to all members of society. energy consumption by the population has increased significantly. i therefore welcome the fact that the proposal has been reversed from the irrational target dates for the withdrawal of subsidies, making the union's latest environmental programme more citizen- and wallet-friendly. we must continue to insist that it is not the citizens, not the families, who pay the costs of the green transition. protecting the environment and preserving jobs are both important in the current challenging situation.
madam president, long years of completely misguided policy towards russia now cripples our ability to stop putin, and we have to be absolutely furious about this right now. but there is still a way out of this trap and the key here is, once again, european solidarity. we need a new eu fund to help us break free of russian dependence, to help our households who are suffering from the cost of living crisis. but there is one even more urgent step here. let’s put an eu price cap on russian gas. gazprom jacked up their prices, so now we are handing extra profits to a war criminal. it is already on the council table, this proposal. so let’s reach an agreement right now. if we speak with one voice, putin has no chance but to accept our terms – in our currency, in our price. he cannot put his gas elsewhere. he cannot stop extracting it. it is in our hands. if viktor orbán disagrees, let’s ask him why. don’t you want lower prices? whose interests is he serving now here? it is moscow driving energy prices to the sky while orbán is blaming brussels. so it’s time for the council to call his bluff. also, it’s time for hungarian voters to do the same on 3 april.
mr. president, i have to ask you... no matter how shocking the war aggressors may be, no matter how surprising their wars may be, war is never without precedent, and we only notice the signs of war late. war aggressors always start in their own country first. that's where the oppression begins. they're taking away independent media, and what's left is being used for party propaganda. they're labeling civilians as agents, trying to intimidate opposition politicians, independent institutions, the judiciary, the prosecutor's office, the constitutional court, trying to bring them under party control, and there's state-sponsored theft, enrichment for the oligarchs. yes, i'm talking about putin, but i'm here to tell all the illiberal little putins in europe that we're never going to be blind again. that this house, the european parliament, will never again allow the rule of law and democracy to be trampled underfoot. because if there's one thing that putin's war has taught us, it's that the rule of law and democracy are the only things that will protect the peace of the people of europe.
in writing. the european parliament voted on thursday to revise the so-called roaming regulation on roaming between public mobile communications networks within the union. i welcome the extension of the proposal until 2032, which aims to introduce a higher level of consumer protection in terms of transparency and quality of services. the new roaming rules will allow citizens to call, text and surf the internet when travelling in other eu countries, even after the current regulation on roaming expires on 30 june 2022, without having to worry about high bills. i believe that one of the greatest success stories of the digital single market is the recast of the regulation adopted today, as the proposal for domestic roaming has made it easier and cheaper to communicate for all travel within europe. i consider it important that our citizens have access to the same quality and speed of mobile internet connection abroad as in hungary.
on behalf of the s&d group. - mr president, i have to go. there's a story that goes around that during world war ii, winston churchill was advised to suspend funding for the arts to finance the war. churchill dismissed this by saying, "then why do we fight?" the deepest truth of that answer should be a compass for all of us. because it is true that the murderous, devastating war in our neighbourhood has to rewrite many plans, but at the same time we have to ask ourselves what the european union is really about. the european union is about democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the european union cannot therefore, in the face of war, disregard the values, aspirations and efforts it has been created to uphold. quite the opposite. the european parliament's greatest success has been the introduction of the rule of law criteria. we must do everything we can to stop the corruption in government, the profiteering of the oligarchs and above all the servants of putin, who are destroying europe. that is our job, my fellow members. let's work for it.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. energy prices have been rising steadily, exacerbated by the war in ukraine. energy prices have reached another record high, and a real solution, effective action, is needed. but there is no alternative to one day to the next. we need strategic calm on our energy policy. i think it is a good move that the european commission, with its latest proposal, has started by standing up for the citizens and, after a long time, has finally started to support public pricing, thereby also recognising the hungarian resis reduction programme. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the only way to deal with rising energy prices is to reduce the cost of electricity. it should be emphasised that prices in hungarian households have not increased despite the crisis. there were counterexamples in the past, of course, because the hungarian left had previously adjusted the recession costs to market prices, which caused energy prices to soar and my compatriots faced a very high burden. that's all we ask. let's move forward. protect families from high energy prices. that's the job.
madam president, madam vice-president jourová, the european idea of democracy has never been reduced to simply governing by majority. no electoral victory therefore exempts the european law from being complied with. that is the rule of european union membership. and that rule of belonging is very demanding, and that is exactly why we are here again with a debate on poland and hungary and article 7. it must be remembered again and again that the european idea of democracy requires respect for minorities, respect for the procedures laid down by law and all the guarantees of compliance with the rules of law, including, of course, the enforcement of the judgments of the court of justice, their observance. and that is why this european parliament has brought article 7 into play in the cases of hungary and poland, and the infringement procedures which have led to millions of dollars in fines being added every day and also to the adoption of the rule of law conditionality regulation, which links access to european funds to compliance with european law and to compliance with the judgments of the court of justice of the european union. and that is why no one is happy that we are having this debate again. no one is happy that president von der leyen has finally taken the step of announcing that she is going to activate the conditionality regulation in the case of hungary, pending poland's compliance with the judgments of the court of justice. because we have to say clearly that if there is no respect for european law and if that respect does not bind the 27 member states equally to the benefit of the european citizenship of the 27 member states, including the 40 million poles and the 10 million hungarians, the european union would simply cease to exist. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure.)
the answer is 'blue card'. thank you for your question, your honor. the commission has the institutional responsibility of being the guardian of the treaties and of ensuring that european law is observed. but the court of justice is the ultimate guarantor of european law and its judgments are binding. the european parliament has therefore taken note of the fact that the polish government is asking the constitutional court to declare that the primacy of european law is no longer binding on poland and that the judgments of the court of justice are therefore no longer binding in poland. is that bad enough for you? we are. but it is the commission which has taken the decision to activate the rule of law conditionality regulation in the case of hungary, because hungary's persistence in failing to comply with the commission's requirements and in the management of european funds leads to that conclusion, to the expectation of what poland's response will be.
madam president, after sunday’s election, it’s very hard not to be deeply worried about what comes next in hungary. who will the next target be? in the past years, we saw independent media outlets being muzzled, one after the other, ngos stigmatised, opposition activists put in police detention for facebook posts, local governments starved out of their finances and we also saw minority groups singled out and attacked, the lgbtq community being the latest. these attacks escalate after every single victory. we are already at the point where the government hacks into the phones of critics with secret service weapons. but we know it can get worse. and if the history is right here, it will get worse. it is absolutely worrying. the european institutions do not seem to be getting anywhere. three and a half years of article 7 proceedings produce absolutely no results. the european commission waited over a year to trigger the rule of law mechanism – maybe because the council told them so? so my question to the council is this: what exactly is your plan to change this? because minorities, journalists or human rights defenders in hungary are european citizens as well. what can you say to them beyond empty words?
mr president, we agree on the need to reform the guatemalan judicial system, on criticism of its government, on the need to defend journalists and human rights defenders. however, it is surprising that the case of bernardo caal was not included, a qeqchi social leader who spent four years in prison for a fabricated case, a remote controlled lawfare case from the european union. caal committed the crime of opposing a hydroelectric power plant owned by one of the companies of the spanish oligarch florentino pérez. thanks to international pressure, including amnesty international, they released him. to everyone's shame, the european commission has done nothing. the question is: why is the name bernardo caal not mentioned in the text? is the hand of oligarch florentino pérez so long that it reaches this chamber? this is a sign of a colonial view of the american continent that we must not accept.
mr president, madam commissioner, the basic human rights are undoubtedly guaranteed for all, including in guatemala. we see violations of these basic human rights and many people in guatemala are suffering. we can't turn a blind eye to this, they're journalists, they're human rights defenders. the violation of the rights of judicial representatives is particularly exceptional. we must not turn a blind eye to this and it is a matter of grave concern. i do not want to put the statements made in the motion for a resolution into a relative perspective, but some of them are simply older. and the picture of guatemala is certainly not black and white. persecution is not acceptable, i want to stress that here, but i still see guatemala as a country with which it makes sense to have a dialogue.
mr president, today the european parliament wishes to express its deep concern about the situation in guatemala: since 2019, when it was decided to unilaterally terminate the mandate of the international commission against impunity in guatemala, the country has been experiencing a constant dismantling of its rule of law and obstruction and harassment of the work of judges and prosecutors. the fact is that a number of them have been criminalised by false charges and arbitrary arrests; this is not something we say, it is something that the secretary-general of the united nations has just denounced. some famous cases, such as those of judge erika aifán and the attorneys general claudia paz y paz and thelma aldana, have led to more than twenty judges and prosecutors in exile. at the same time, there is a worrying situation in terms of violence and extortion against human rights defenders, journalists, women and lgbtq people; that is why we demand and demand the country to change the situation that the people of guatemala are suffering.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, pressure on the rule of law and independence of the judiciary in guatemala is increasing. the space for civil society there to operate free from obstructions is shrinking. these are matters of concern to the eu. in general, eu relations with guatemala are positive, in particular on alignment in international fora. we extend our gratitude and appreciation for guatemala’s strong condemnation of the russian invasion in ukraine and active role in support of ukraine’s sovereignty in the un general assembly, the organization of american states and the international atomic energy agency. nevertheless, the eu clearly voiced its preoccupation regarding the rule of law on 11 february, following legal action against independent judges, lawyers and prosecutors, resulting in arrests and loss of judicial immunity. we called on the authorities to ensure the safety of those detained and to safeguard their right to due process. most recently, we also reacted on 23 march following the resignation of judge erika aifán and the decision by the supreme court of justice to suspend judge pablo xitumul from his function. the proliferation of legal proceedings undertaken by the authorities in guatemala against a number of independent judges, prosecutors and lawyers follows a deeply troubling pattern. these are generally individuals who have been involved in investigating anti-corruption cases and often former staff of the international commission against impunity in guatemala or the special prosecutor’s office against corruption and impunity. these actions have been preceded by a lengthy campaign of intimidation and threats, including on social media. as a consequence, over 20 guatemalan judges, lawyers and prosecutors have fled abroad. in the context of our development work in guatemala, engagement with civil society is essential. the eu remains highly vigilant regarding any negative consequences related to the implementation of the ngo law that entered into force last year. civil society actors are key stakeholders worldwide for the promotion of inclusive and sustainable development. human rights defenders, in particular, face continuous threats in guatemala. their adequate protection is thus crucial. additionally, good governance, solid institutions and respect for the rule of law have tangible, beneficial effects on prosperity and sustainable economic development. strengthening institutions will accordingly be an indispensable part of our cooperation with guatemala for the period of 2021–2027. the eu, in close coordination with member states and through its delegation in guatemala, will continue to monitor the situation closely, including through observation of judicial proceedings. we will continue to make our concerns clear to the guatemalan authorities. once again, we call on them to ensure that human rights and the rule of law in guatemala are upheld.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 7 april 2022.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the growing repression in russia, including the case of alexei navalny (2022/2622 ((rsp)) *. the president of the commission
the author. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. after the original concept of invading the russian federation had collapsed, it reverted to what general ben hodges, former commander of u.s. forces in europe, called in computer language the default settings: to rape, murder, destruction, persecution, state terror. this is what he's doing at war in ukraine, a country that russia doesn't recognize as a state, whose statehood it doesn't recognize, against a nation that russia doesn't recognize and the kremlin leaders don't recognize, calling it and their anti-russia. for the reasons we're talking about in this resolution, first and foremost for the best that the russian soil has produced, which is the russian opposition, russia must be defeated this time so that it never threatens anyone ever again.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. media houses, journalists, artists, democratic opposition, lgbtq activists, feminists - anyone who stands up to putin's rule is taking a huge risk: imprisonment, disappearance, mock trials, threats and persecution. the repression of democrats and civil society in russia was systematic even earlier under putin's regime, but it is clear that it has become even worse after the illegal invasion of and war against ukraine. those who protest against the war risk long prison sentences. navalny is sentenced to another nine years in prison in a show trial. we demand his release in this resolution, but we also demand the release of others: the thousands of russian citizens who are being imprisoned without cause for demonstrating for democracy, for peace and for their rights. a peaceful and democratic russia is our best and strongest guarantee of security, as several other colleagues have said. that is why we must do everything we can to oppose putin's regime and its oppression. this means that we must support the democratic forces, but we must also support those seeking refuge in europe, deserters and civil society.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, as the kremlin continues to engage in aggression and war crimes in ukraine, it is also turning increasingly repressive at home. nearly 16 000 people have now been detained for peacefully protesting against putin’s aggression – like the brave yelena osipova, survivor of the siege of leningrad, whose only crime was carrying a placard saying ‘peaceful and honest russia for all’. we cannot remain silent. as aleksandr solzhenitsyn wrote: ‘in keeping silent about evil… we are implanting it, and it will rise up a thousand fold times in the future. when we neither punish nor reproach evildoers, we are not simply protecting them, we are thereby ripping the foundations of justice from beneath the new generations.’ let us support those brave russians, so that one day peaceful and democratic russia triumphs over the forces of oppression.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, russia has become a rogue state and we must approach it as such. where international law does not apply, we must stretch our limits as well. with the commission set to continue financing pro-democracy and human rights, civil society actors in russia, we need to ensure that russian state actors cannot interfere with these payments. so this is why the commission must urgently establish alternative channels through which material help can resume for persecuted russian entities. it is the only way to keep the seeds of democracy open in a country that is quickly regressing into unchecked authoritarianism. it can quite literally mean a difference between life and death, as we have witnessed this so often in russia. we need to act quickly. the repressive russia model poses an existential threat to our internal security, and i’m not only talking about ukraine. there are eu member states where russia is considered an example even today. colleagues, if we do not treat the problem at its core, i fear that in four years we can replace russia with hungary in the title of this resolution. so let’s do everything to prevent the escalation of putinism outside the eu borders today so we do not have to do the same within the eu tomorrow.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. consumers generate billions of dollars in electrical waste as hundreds of thousands of electronic products are thrown away every day instead of being repaired. apart from the rapid wear-and-tear, this is mainly due to the fact that the cost of repairs is too high for the customer's wallet. i therefore welcome the european parliament's resolution, which is in the interests of people, business and the environment. i believe that in the interest of sustainability, consumers should be encouraged to reuse and repair products and manufacturers should be encouraged not to intentionally shorten the life of electronic products. this can only be achieved if manufacturers put durable devices on the market and consumers are properly informed about the expected life of the product and its reparability. it is time to give priority to sustainable and environmentally friendly means.
in writing. the devesa report is based on the ideological demand for a transnational list for the first time, rather than on the necessary legislative clarifications and adjustments based on the experience of the european parliament elections. the document builds on the idea of ever closer unity, and presents the history of european integration from a linear, federalist perspective, which is increasingly moving towards centralisation. the european parliament is not the bearer of sovereignty, the member states are the masters of the treaties. the institutional system of the european union is a distinct entity, but it is by no means a federal state. the adoption of the proposal for a transnational list would therefore be a major step towards centralisation, with small and medium-sized member states suffering the consequences. the draft is not a well-thought-out proposal, since it would introduce the transnational list on an experimental basis for only 28 members. in addition, the creation of the european electoral authority would increase bureaucracy and unnecessary parallelism. it is also important to emphasise that the central regulation of the voting age limits is also questionable as to whether it is in line with the principle of subsidiarity. the current age limit for voting in each member state is the result of a long constitutional history. however, i welcome the fact that the resolution addresses the issue of participation of national and linguistic minorities in european democracy and the specific aspects of the exercise of the right to vote by persons with disabilities. it is essential for european democracy to take account at all times of the principle of equality of the member states.
in writing. in the digital competition, europe is at a serious disadvantage compared to china and the united states. we regret that the digitisation of the eu economy and industry is still not being addressed to the required level. there is currently a significant regulatory gap in the field of artificial intelligence, which should be addressed through more efficient and targeted investment by the union in order to fully exploit the benefits of this technology. the only key to overcoming global competition disadvantage is the creation of a strong digital union based on nation states, which ensures that the opportunities offered by member states are realised. finally, we must not forget our citizens: technology must be used to serve people! so in the field of artificial intelligence, trust is not just lucky to have, it's absolutely essential. and it's our job to make sure that everyone has that.
in writing. – the eu has faced unprecedented challenges in the recent decade: an economic crisis; a refugee crisis; a health crisis, and now it is witnessing a war in its immediate neighbourhood. the eu has always managed to find solutions and overcome the challenges. throughout the year, citizens, civil society, politicians and eu institutions came together to dream: to dream of a shared future for the european union, a way forward. more than 40 proposals and 300 measures were put down on the table. citizens want a more social, secure eu based on solidarity, where the rule of law prevails. our duty now is to translate these proposals into action and be brave and open the treaties where needed.
mr president, cyberattacks are a fast—growing criminal activity. while the russian invasion in ukraine is mostly an offensive on the ground, experts warn for increasing cyberattacks as a countermeasure against our sanctions. the eu has to be prepared. we cannot allow a reactive approach. we need a proactive cyber—defence. i regret to learn that the court of auditors recently concluded that the european union bodies and agencies are insufficiently secured. a few days ago, the head of eu cybersecurity agency said that its incident reporting system is too bureaucratic and does not work. i call on the negotiators of the update to the eu directive on the security of network and information systems to address these issues and to provide the blueprint for a better—secured european union. digitalisation is crucial for our economic well—being, but the more we digitalise key infrastructures and critical sectors, the more vulnerable we get for cyber—criminality. we have called for a stronger european defence, and cybersecurity is an essential part of it.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the european union is often criticized for being too slow, too bureaucratic, and therefore indecisive and weak. while there was some basis for these criticisms and accusations, the russian aggression against ukraine has forgotten many negative stereotypes. europe has shown what it is like to put aside excessive bureaucracy and start behaving like a great power. this is also critically important because a united europe free of russian influence may be more desirable to putin today than to nato. but in 2022, it's time to act as a unified superpower in cyberspace. to do this, we need to build a digital shield together around europe and we need to act fast. for example, a few weeks ago it was revealed that putin has been inside all the digital systems of the hungarian ministry of foreign affairs for years, even accessing the most confidential information. all this with the knowledge of the hungarian government, which undermines both the security of europe and nato. that is why we need more europe in the 21st century, not less. let's free hungary and europe from russian influence and finally act as a great power in the newest arena of modern warfare, including cyberspace.
madam president, there is a broad consensus here and in other eu institutions that economic sanctions on russia are the most effective way of pressuring russia to stop its aggression in ukraine. the speed, efficiency and accuracy of the sanctions proposed by the commission need to be commended, especially its efforts to create an unprecedented unity among member states. it is unfortunate that it took such a disaster to realise the unhealthy dependence of our continent on russian energy supplies and to start discussions about a unified energy market, based on diversified energy resources and solidarity among member states. in the past weeks, russia has demonstrated that it’s ready to use energy as a strategic weapon to further its aggressive geopolitical objectives. it must be clear by now that russia in the long term is an unreliable partner for supplying energy to the eu. therefore, i would like to ask the commission to focus not only on fossil fuels when it comes to sanctions, but also to target nuclear energy. nuclear deals struck by russian rosatom with the governments of various member states must be phased out. finland showed the way by terminating the fennovoima deal with rosatom, which supplied a nuclear reactor and was the financial backer of the project, as well as the main shareholder. it’s time that hungary follows suit and terminates its equally controversial paks deal with rosatom. the commission would be right, in its next sanction package, to ban every russian nuclear deal on the continent.
mr president, commissioner and colleagues, to protect our democracy and citizens in respect of fundamental rights offline, we also have to translate them online. we need to define first exactly what is legal and what is not the responsibility of the national authorities. even if you exclude matters of national security, still we need to act for the rest of the cases and to do so, our inquiry committee, not just for pegasus, but for any spyware, needs first to understand the extent of the use of such spyware and such practices – the origin of such spying, because it can also take place outside european borders, and of course, to offer a possibility similar to the citizenslab – so a service for european citizens in order to restore trust and to ensure that they have the right to understand if their devices are being hacked. we offer that service through itec, and i want to thank them for that. it’s a service that’s provided now for the members of the european parliament. but of course we need end—to—end security. this means we need to be able to extend that also to our staff and anybody that’s involved in political decisions. so we would expect a budgetary line to extend this service for everybody that feels that they have been targeted illegally. alternatively, we have to ensure that by default and by design, the applications in our devices will not allow access to our cameras or microphones, as they tend to. we have the choice to switch off when we talk about location data. we don’t have such a choice for microphones – once you allow the access, it’s always on. so we need to do that and in these cases, we can act as europeans at european level. so, for sure, the european citizens understand that this is not a problem about a specific spyware. it’s about its use, about its misuse, and about the abuse by those who acquire it. it is also about the legal framework in which those who produce the technology operate or not. so i think even if the name is pegasus, we need to broaden the scope and to ensure that we come up with specific recommendations and follow—up steps, and also with a comprehensive report that will ensure that we can restore the trust of our citizens and we will ensure that our fundamental rights are also being protected online. we have not done enough.
mr. chairman, please! failure to respond to crimes is participating in those crimes. and all the evidence points to the destruction of the privacy of european union citizens. human rights were violated in this way. and that's why we, renew europe poland 2050, reacted immediately. and it's very good that we have received such broad support in the european parliament and that the special committee on the illegal use of pegasus has already started to function. commissioner hahn has just told us that the commission will be following very closely the work of this special committee, but i would ask you to take an active part in our work in this committee. and i must say, commissioner, that i am surprised that, to our knowledge, the commission has known for some time that commissioners and senior officials have been bugged, and somehow there has been no public discussion of this. we are asking for transparency and openness here, because the safety of citizens is absolutely essential for all of us. and this pegasus device was designed to protect citizens from serious crimes, from terrorists, and not for authoritarian governments, and perhaps others, to eavesdrop on politicians, prosecutors, activists, businessmen, journalists, meps and commissioners, in short, anyone who is or could be inconvenient to authoritarian governments, and perhaps others. the special services, the police and other state bodies must be subject to control, but such control is possible only when the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the courts and the prosecutor's offices are fully guaranteed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. so let me make one thing very clear: pegasus is not the only surveillance software, god knows, but one of many, many. and all of them have one thing in common, namely, the principle of mistrust of the citizen, well-seconded by the intelligence services and long since degenerated into a state reason. in many countries - and not just in the usual dictatorships - it is an attempt to belittle oppositionists, journalists, human rights activists and even members of parliament. and so to our own people: we cannot expect any government to voluntarily expose the scandals it has caused. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must protect the victims, as well as those who turn to our committee in confidence. you can't reform spyware like this, you have to ban it. it's our job to lay the foundation for that.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the treaty on european union clearly and without exception refers the question of national security to the member states. the setting up of the pegasus commission and the subordinate scrutiny of political objectives by the european parliament are illegal in this area. it seriously infringes the sovereignty of the member states. on the other hand, hungary operates as a democratic state governed by the rule of law and as such has always acted in accordance with the legislation in force and continues to do so in matters of national security. governmental and non-governmental institutions that monitor the national security services have concluded that the legality of the functioning of these bodies is fully supported. since the civilian government took office twelve years ago, the hungarian national security services have not and will not continue to conduct illegal surveillance. however, during the left-wing governments, many serious irregularities occurred. we ask the european parliament to respect our agreements.
mr president, commissioner, this important debate coincides with the start of the work of the pegasus committee of inquiry, a highly sophisticated telephone tapping technology that threatens the european idea of democracy, its values and its rights. unlike any precedent we can compare it to, pegasus is characterized not only by its opacity, difficult to trace, but also by its intrusiveness and its damage to fundamental rights that we hold dear; by its viral expansiveness (it has multiplied very quickly and has high contagion power); and by being prohibitively expensive (a cost, therefore, that is not within the reach of anyone, and is to be countered if only accessible by states). what is certain is that, so far, with all the incidents and controversies and polemics exposed to heated debates in the political landscapes of the member states, clear indicators have emerged that at least twenty states have this technology, including some member states that have recognized it (hungary and poland, again). so the committee of inquiry has a lot to learn, a lot of ground to cover, a lot of work ahead of it. this is what we can expect from the year of the committee of inquiry in the european parliament, of which i have the honour to be a member. what i do know from experience, because i chaired the committee of inquiry which investigated the national security agency's surveillance programme, is that the aim must be european legislation that strengthens the fundamental rights of europeans, supported by the testimonies and documents that emerge from the work of the committee, that strengthens the rights to confidentiality of communications, privacy and secrecy of communications, with a guarantee of judicial authorization. it is not out of the question in our work to conclude that pegasus is incompatible with the european standard of protection of fundamental rights, which is the highest in the world. we are proud of that, precisely because of the invasive and potentially uncontrollable nature of its threat to the fundamental rights enshrined in article 8 of the european charter. but there is no doubt that the cybersecurity and counter-espionage measures that are essential to make this strategic autonomy of the european union's foreign, security and defence policy credible will also have to be strengthened. conclusion: the pegasus spyware does indeed look like a stimulus to the european legislative process, but only insofar as it addresses a threat from a previously unknown entity against european citizens and their fundamental rights. not taking it seriously enough would be tantamount, by omission or connivance, to taking the risks which, according to the diagnosis of levitsky and ziblatt, end up killing democracies.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the european parliament has taken the first important step in tackling the issue of illegal eavesdropping on european citizens, with the establishment of the pegasus commission of inquiry. the task of this commission of inquiry, broadcast live to the public, is to hear, for example, the hungarian minister of justice, judit varga, with whose knowledge and permission civilians, politicians, investigative journalists in hungary were observed and intercepted. as a member of the committee, i will also be calling for the warrants to be seized and examined, because it very much appears that a significant portion of them were not needed at all, and were used by the government solely to silence political opponents in order to maintain power. the hungarian parliament cannot set up any committee of inquiry today, which is what the opposition is initiating, but they cannot eliminate the control of the european parliament that protects hungarian and european citizens. that is why we have a special responsibility in this matter. i ask you, on behalf of the hungarians who have been interviewed, to do everything possible to ensure that the minister of justice finally has to explain to the hungarian and european public why they are constantly spying on the private lives of their own citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. while we in this house are working to ensure democratic rights for all citizens of europe, we had no idea that some governments, invoking the darkest of times, were going to pursue surveillance of their own citizens through illegal means. therefore, as vice-chairman of the pegasus committee, i have initiated the hearing of the committee, inter alia, of judit varga, hungarian minister of justice, and of her colleague, former secretary of state, pál völner. those responsible for this scandal will have to answer to the pegasus commission. we need answers, for all innocent european citizens and for the victims involved. this will be especially true of governments that are unprincipledly protected from even being questioned by their own cowardly party soldiers in their own parliaments. because unlike some member states, like hungary, europe and the european parliament is the home of democracy. we represent the interests of all european citizens, of all european people, even against the powers that be. we will find out exactly what happened and we will do everything to ensure that this atrocity never happens again in the history of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that nso is a private israeli company and that it has the most sophisticated surveillance technology. this private company sells this technology to states, also with the approval of the israeli ministry of defense, and it does so to democratic states, where it is possible to control the use of this technology, and it does so also to illiberal countries, without constitutional documents, without fundamental rights, without freedom. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. it is clear that something monstrous has been created and the work we are undertaking over the next twelve months is necessary. we have a duty to give answers to the european citizens, but we also have a duty to speak to the whole world and we must do so also with the cooperation that must come from the commission and the council, because we must make clear, without any ifs and buts, what has happened and what may happen in the coming weeks and months, and we must do so in the interests of the european citizens.
member of the commission. the commission is not i would like to thank you very much for this debate, even if i am not directly responsible, as mrs veld has said. but i am concerned because i stood here seven years ago and raised the issue of a wiretapping scandal in the country now known as north macedonia, where 22 000 citizens were wiretapped. and frankly, that didn't really affect anyone here, but the debate from the far left to the far right was really just about the name issue and not about the fact that 22,000 people were being bugged. but it got me going, and the situation in north macedonia is much better today; the country has a european perspective. but i am glad that there is now a broad-based sensitivity here, that we have not only had a wide-ranging discussion today, but that this committee of inquiry has in fact been set up. and i can only assure you that we as the commission - and i said this in the name of the commission in the introduction - will not only be there to listen, but will actively contribute to the best of our ability. but i must also remind you again that we will of course take care to clarify this if we are the ones to be bugged. but then it's up to the respective police authorities, the law enforcement authorities in the countries where we've uncovered something, to punish and prosecute it according to the rules. i think it is also important to remember - and this is perhaps also an important aspect for the committee of inquiry - that there are in principle sufficient rules on how to deal with this. the question is, are they being followed? and b) reflection, to look meaningfully at whether there are actually improvements. nobody is perfect we all generate experiences, and on this basis, i think it makes sense to make suggestions for modifications if necessary. i think we can all agree that illegal wiretapping is in no way acceptable. and as my compatriot lukas mandl, i believe, said, this is a crime, and a crime must be punished. this is not a chivalrous offense. and i think in that sense, we're one in the same. i would like to thank you again not only for the debate today but also for the initiative in setting up this committee.
mr president, i just heard the commissioner say something interesting. he said that illegal spying, illegal hacking is a crime, and should be reported to the police. so can i then assume that the european commission has reported to the police that the phones of commissioners and civil servants have been hacked? can we at least have an answer to that?
member of the commission. – a final answer because there was not immediately thieving, i hope so.
president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am delighted to be with you again for this important debate. i thank mrs bricmont for her concern. i came to you as soon as i could, after our ministers' council, at which i was compelled to be there. the french presidency is very keen to attend the european parliament's proceedings as often as possible, of course, and that is quite normal. we have been more present in this respect at the hearing and in the chamber than the previous three presidencies, and i am very grateful for that. we were there this morning and i joined you, i mean as soon as i could. i was present at the debate on the same subject in this house on 16 february last because it continues to be an important subject and i want to commend the efforts you are making personally, mrs bricmont and mrs int veld in particular, to raise our awareness of this subject and to launch the work of this very important committee of inquiry into pegasus. in its role as the council presidency for this six-month period, you have my assurance, it is of course prepared to contribute as much as we can to this work. we would like to remind you, and i would like to stress this point, that the illegal use of surveillance software to infiltrate telephones and other electronic devices is clearly unacceptable and must be condemned, including through judicial and criminal proceedings. as you stressed in your debates, the european union is founded on the values of democracy, respect for the rule of law, freedom of expression and information - we celebrated support for freedom of the press yesterday. freedom of the media and the protection of privacy are fundamental rights enshrined in the charter, which the french presidency, through the president of the republic, emmanuel macron, here on 19 january, has proposed to revise, following the conference on the future of europe. this is one of the subjects we could bring up in our debates, since many citizens - i was still present this weekend for this work - have stressed the importance of strengthening our rules on the protection of freedoms, in particular freedom of the press and data protection. we have a joint responsibility in this respect between the institutions, between the european union and its member states. it is clear that in our legal systems, limitations to the right to privacy may be necessary. this is the case in any democratic society for certain purposes, in particular national security or the fight against crime. but, as you have pointed out, as the court of justice has consistently pointed out in its case-law, as the european data protection supervisor has pointed out, all these limitations, which are also specific to democracies, are strictly governed by european or national rules on the protection of human rights. the highest guarantees must be respected. that does not appear to have been the case in the present case. as the commissioner has said, it is up to each member state - let us not shirk our responsibilities - to carry out the necessary investigations, which are the responsibility of the judiciary in particular, in order to establish any possible illegalities that may have been committed. as regards france, i already mentioned in the house on 16 february that there were independent investigations launched by several prosecutors following the revelations that were made, and i know that this is the case in several member states. but we clearly have a european responsibility to implement, because this situation is also a reminder of our continued vulnerability in cybersecurity. this is not just about protecting an economic activity or critical infrastructure. it's about, through our phones and our electronic devices, protecting what has often become an extension of ourselves, of our professional lives, of our private lives, which deal with so much data. europe was the first to adopt a general data protection regulation. we have reached - or are in the process of reaching - very important agreements with the european parliament and by speeding up work under the french presidency of the council during this six-month period on the regulation of the major digital platforms, the dsa, the dma, but we probably still have a lack of regulation and industry in the protection of our infrastructures and our data. the security sector is also one of our priorities for this presidency. i would like to conclude by emphasizing the very productive work being done at european level, at legislative level, between the european parliament and the council, which is almost completed by parliament, to reach agreement on the directive on the security of information systems, the so-called nis 2, which will also be one of the tools, in this general context, to strengthen our protection, our privacy and our sovereignty. i repeat that we are ready, during this six-month presidency which ends on 30 june, and then as a member state, to engage as much as necessary and as far as possible with the parliamentary committee of inquiry and then alongside the european commission to draw all the consequences and strengthen our rights and our freedoms.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. pegasus spying has compromised fundamental rights. we urge the european parliament to obtain information to know the victims of the spyware, its use and who is behind this incident. we demand these explanations from european governments and the company developing the spyware nso group, we question the information coming from the nso group, particularly in the statements that assume that due to its high cost it is only accessible to governments. the spanish socialists have stressed the importance of giving the pegasus commission room for manoeuvre, avoiding the use of the issue to capitalise on local issues. the use of spyware compromises the european idea of democracy, its values and its rights. the pegasus commission will aim to develop european legislation that strengthens the rights of europeans, the confidentiality of communications, the right to privacy and the secrecy of communications with the guarantee of judicial authorisation. the use of pegasus spyware may be incompatible with the european standard of fundamental rights enshrined in article 8 of the european charter, and cybersecurity and counter-espionage measures must be strengthened if the strategic autonomy of the eu's foreign security and defence policy is to be credible.
the next item is the debate on the seven motions for resolutions on the osman kavala case in turkey (2022/2526 (rsp)) 1. i would remind you that you are free to choose your seat in the chamber, except for the first two rows reserved for group leaders. unlike the previous item on the agenda, you can make requests for the free microphone procedure and the blue card using the voting machine as soon as you have inserted your voting card into it. i would also like to remind you that you will continue to have to speak from the centre stand in the chamber, except in cases where you have to speak because of a free microphone, a blue card or because of a breach of the rules of procedure. _______1 see minutes of the meeting.
author. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, osman kavala wanted nothing more but a more democratic turkish society and a more prosperous turkey. is this a crime? well, in erdoğan’s turkey, apparently it is. osman kavala received a life sentence for speaking up, for refusing to give up his dream of a country where democratic standards and human rights are respected. for us, his sentencing is an extremely painful reminder of the state turkey’s democracy is in right now, and this is why we have to follow his footsteps in speaking up. this is also why the european parliament is now calling for his immediate release. no ifs and no buts. it’s high time that turkey stop using bogus terrorism charges for civil society actors. it’s also time we officially stop calling turkey a candidate country to join the eu. obviously, this is simply an extremely unfortunate status for a country with such serious backsliding on fundamental rights and freedoms. colleagues, i’m sure that many of us in this chamber would support turkey’s bid to forge closer relations with the eu. but this will not be possible until rulings such as this one against mr kavala exist. so for us, let his bravery be our moral compass. we will not give up fighting for a more democratic turkey until he and thousands of people in his position are not persecuted. because this is what osman kavala would want and this is what he is fighting for.
madam president, commissioner, this morning we’ve heard some of the unspeakable horrors that have been visited on the women and children of ukraine. the task i want to concentrate on is how we convert evidence into prosecutions. this time last year, the european parliament passed a resolution calling for the commission to publish an action plan on impunity. nothing has happened since then, and it needs to address, for example, the different application of the principle of universal jurisdiction in each member state. it is applied in a different way, depending on which member state you are in – whether it’s questions of the statute of limitations, whether it is the definition itself of a war crime, which is so significant in the case of sexual violence, or questions of impunity and immunity. so we need to publish that. we also need to address the question of the proposal for a treaty on mutual legal assistance and extradition. the eu genocide network was briefed on this last month, so my call is for two things: on 23 may, it is eu day for action against impunity. what we need a commitment to do is to publish an eu action plan on impunity, and also to support the initiative for a treaty on mutual legal assistance and extradition.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to receive reports of abuses of women's rights on the battlefield in ukraine. sexual violence, whether in the form of rape, trafficking in human beings or any other form of abuse, is absolutely unacceptable and unthinkable in the context of armed conflict in the 21st century. it is essential that the union, in collaboration with the international community and non-governmental organisations, respond to these alerts. roadmaps and concrete measures should be defined and gender issues should be given special attention in the programming of civilian and security missions. moreover, the prosecution and punishment of all those responsible for these abuses must be mandatory requirements of any peace negotiations. there is no true peace without justice. the criminals of this war must suffer the consequences of their actions.
madam president, a woman near kyiv was repeatedly raped by a russian soldier, while her young son was crying in the boiler room. a mother and her under—age daughter were raped by three men in kherson. day after day, bodies of naked women are found with signs of torture and rape. i know it’s not comfortable to hear, and i also know that some politicians insist that we look away. but this is the reality emerging from ukraine. it may not be happening right here, but it’s happening right now in 2022 in europe, in a european country – and we are talking about hundreds of cases. these are not isolated instances. it’s a deliberate war tactic. these are war crimes. so, the european parliament must send a clear message to the perpetrators that one day you will need to stand in front of an international tribunal and you will need to answer for these unspeakable crimes. this house calls for a special international tribunal. we already need to establish an interim office in the hague, and the eu should provide financing for that, because every single one of these cases needs to be recorded. accountability may not happen today or tomorrow, as it should, but it will happen and justice will be served.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, judges under political pressure, investigative journalists targeted by strategic lawsuits, children learning in school that their only option is to start a traditional family – these people are the story behind the commission’s annual rule of law report. these people are our fellow eu citizens. thank you, terry reintke, for the excellent collaboration that we had with you this year on the rule of law report; my compliments to you. thanks to our parliament, the commission is now exercising a yearly rule of law review, and even including country—specific recommendations as of next year. but to protect the core values of the eu, and the fundamental rights of our common europeans, we need more! we are currently in a two—front struggle: preventing further rule of law violations on the one hand, but also fixing what has gone terribly wrong. that is why we ask for the commission’s rule of law report to be more than just a descriptive document. it needs to be analytical, preventive, and it needs the concrete follow—ups by connecting it to the eu’s rule of law instruments. we have them – let’s use them! autocrats are not deterred by reports nor by article 7 hearings in the council we never hear back from. that is, of course, a message to the council, to the member states. dialogue is not the language they speak. the only way to stop undemocratic leaders, undemocratic in behaviour, is by taking real measures and making sure they feel the consequences. no more patience, no more eu money into authoritarian pockets – the rule of law can never be subject to compromise.
on behalf of the renew group. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. before i turn to my suggestions for the report before us, let me briefly react as the hungarian representative to the european union's rule of law policy. the hungarian people must not be punished for the crimes of their government! the eu is currently facing an economic crisis and hungary is currently unable to access eu funds. the support must be withdrawn from the government, from the hungarian government, not from the hungarian society, which is drifting towards insecurity day by day. the european union should work to deliver the money directly to municipalities, civil society organisations and businesses. it should work to ensure that eu money is spent on schools, hospitals and jobs rather than on building blocks and skylines, and that eu money is used to enrich a nation rather than a small circle. the hungarians, like all other european nations, want security of life and security of law, predictability, calm, peace. a country where they can feel safe and where they can get from one to the other in a predictable way. a country in europe. and that is currently only possible with the support of the european union. the challenge facing the union is not small, its citizens must not suffer from financial disadvantages, but they must also ensure their legal security. this can only be resolved through tough and consistent negotiations, which require a clear, factual basis. that is why i have made three suggestions for the forthcoming third rule of law report. first, we need to establish a clear link between the rule of law report and the rule of law mechanism, i.e. the withdrawal of eu funds. secondly, we should introduce a rule of law index to assess the state of the rule of law in a given member state. finally, a separate chapter should be devoted to the situation of civil society, because the destruction of the rule of law often begins with government action against them. i ask you to vote on the report with this in mind.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. we've had enough! my colleagues in the european parliament, and perhaps more importantly for me, many millions of hungarian citizens, are fed up. we are tired of these pointless and circumstantial debates about exactly where, when and how much the breach of the rule of law is damaging the budget of the european union. i want to be clear, so please understand. the essence of the dismantling of the rule of law in hungary, the ultimate goal is theft. theft of public funds and the accumulation of private property. the restriction of the independent press, so that you can't even find out, you can't find out who, where, why and how much he stole. the occupation of the constitutional court to keep the laws that allow theft alive. the prosecutor's office is obsessed with not allowing the prosecution to reach the cases that affect the highest levels of fidesz or the prime minister's family. the purpose, the essence, the meaning of the dismantling of the rule of law in hungary is the theft of public funds. stealing the taxpayers' money from the european union, you don't want to help corrupt governments do that, do you? i'd like to address the commission. please stop the fruitless arguments. please, act. let's see some results. that is what this house expects of you, and more importantly, that is what many millions of europeans, and among them many millions of hungarian citizens, expect of you.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, colleagues, yes certainly for decades the russian federation was able to turn the attention of the west from the immediate neighbourhood and the will to conquer neighbours, to global issues. now it is impossible. we are aware of all the atrocities happening in ukraine during this appalling invasion that is next stage of the war that started in 2014. russia is to be defeated in this war, and surely no impunity for perpetrators of war crimes and for instigation and decision—makers as well. we require a special tribunal and we require all actions that are already taken. i am happy that my country, together with ukraine and lithuania, were in the lead of member states’ initiatives to eradicate russian impunity in war crimes through decades.
on behalf of the left group. mr. president, even though we are three months into an illegal invasion by russia in ukraine, the united nations has been saying loud and clear that at least since 2014 war crimes are being committed in ukraine; their perpetrators have never been convicted, and therefore it is crucial to support an independent investigation that determines and convicts the guilty. let us hope that this house's sudden interest in war crimes in ukraine will be a change of attitude so that from now on all war crimes are fought, wherever they come from: i want to recall here today how the murder by the united states army of the spanish journalist josé couso in iraq remains unpunished, or how julian assange is waiting to be extradited to the united states for revealing terrible war crimes, or how countries like spain are still eighty years later without judging their war crimes or without restoring the principle of... (the president withdraws the floor to the speaker).
ladies and gentlemen, i know that there is a very emotional debate going on, it's about life and death, it's about guilt and atonement. i would like to point out, however, at the end of this first round of speeches that it is not our parliamentary practice to have applause or disapproval from the rostrum.
mr president, we have all witnessed the atrocities committed by the russian armed forces against innocent ukrainian men, women and children. these images speak for themselves, even when there are simply no words to describe the horror they depict. there can be no impunity for war crimes in ukraine. the perpetrators must be held to account. for that we need evidence; evidence that is collected on the ground in ukraine as we speak. and we need to make sure that this evidence is safely stored – something that is obviously not possible on the ground in ukraine at the moment as the war is still ongoing. therefore, we fully support the commission’s proposal to give europol, or eurojust, a crucial role in the collection, preservation and the sharing of such evidence. we need this, and we need this fast. we cannot risk losing valuable evidence, and this is why our group will support the text as it stands now. we still believe it would be even better to also include the crime of aggression. but for now, speed is of the essence. so let’s get to work. let’s make sure that those responsible are brought to justice.
mr president, more than four months after russia’s invasion of ukraine started, i have to say i am still shaken when i say out loud that there is war in europe. it sounds surreal. yet, it’s all too real, and all too close to us. during these four months, there have been not dozens, not hundreds but thousands of war crimes documented in ukraine, perpetrated by russia. every single day civilians die, women are raped, and families are dragged deep into russia against their will, never to be heard from again. all across the country, mass graves bear witness to the unspeakable human suffering inflicted on an entire nation. so, colleagues, this resolution is long overdue. it is just about time that this house officially calls putin’s russia for what it is – a war criminal, and war criminals cannot go unpunished. so that’s why we are calling for an ad hoc tribunal to prosecute russia’s crime of aggression. and that’s why we will support the icc in its quest to bring the perpetrators to justice. and this is why we have to seize russia’s frozen foreign reserves to finance the reconstruction of ukraine. and once this horrendous war is over, once ukraine emerges victorious, we will be there to help in any way we can. so let this document be a foundation on which we can build legal precedents, on which the brave people of ukraine can place hope that there is a world where actions have consequences, a world where impunity is impossible. but let this also be a warning for the council as well, because without meaningful further sanctions, these atrocities will continue. we have to move quickly with further sanctions, because let’s not forget: europe might not be fighting this war, but it’s europe that ukraine has been defending from the russian aggressor in the past four months.
mr president, colleagues, the past weeks have demonstrated that russia is not only an expansionist aggressor, but also an unreliable partner when it comes to energy supplies. it is a tragedy that it took a war of this scale for us to realise the dangers of extreme energy dependence on russia and it is now under these circumstances that we have to find a solution. there is a solution, however. finding alternative sources and suppliers of fossil fuels is only a short-term solution. if the eu wants to create energy security for all 27 member states and attain full energy independence from external suppliers, it must invest in technologies that so far have been blocked by a powerful gas and oil lobby and sabotaged by short-sighted politicians. renewables, hydrogen and most importantly energy power based on fusion technology must become a top priority for the eu in the next year and in the decade to come.
in writing. europe needs to provide its citizens with a reliable, sustainable and affordable energy supply, despite the unexpected energy challenges posed by the war in ukraine. i agree that concrete steps are needed, but any new energy policy measures must remain socially fair, consumer-centred and cost-effective for eu citizens. it is also important that the disadvantages of the proposals should not outweigh the advantages. it should be stressed that low energy prices are essential to keep the european economy competitive, but eu green policies and sanctions proposals seem to work against them. we also see that an oil embargo is not a solution, because further network development is needed before such a measure can be taken. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action strategy. the bureaucrats in brussels are cynically recommending to the european citizens, in line with the left's programme, to reduce electricity, heat and water consumption and to replace hot water with cold water. they would also be required to pay a significant proportion of the cost of energy independence the commission would provide new resources for only one tenth of the costs incurred as a result of the project. we need more fair and just proposals, europe deserves better!
on behalf of the s&d group. - mr president, i have to go. first of all, i'd like to congratulate mr. mcallister on his report. you've done an exemplary job of putting this on the table. the russian war changed the whole geopolitical situation in the world. we have to be prepared for what happened in ukraine to happen elsewhere. like, taiwan or something. the eu cannot be left out of the responses to such situations, given our power interests and our transatlantic commitments. in preparing this report, we have tried to take into account the consequences of this new geopolitical reality. these crises require closer cooperation between member states in order to allow the union to act with greater determination and emerge stronger. and those member states that deny the need for this are isolating themselves within europe. the union must also find strong responses to these internal challenges.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. combating climate change and the green transition are crucial for the future of europe and the world. it is therefore essential that we make responsible and effective decisions. but this climate package is the opposite. a set of irresponsible proposals that run counter to common sense and would cause a significant increase in energy prices per capita across the union. the adoption of a climate tax would have a particularly adverse impact on european, including hungarian, households and businesses, and would jeopardise the results and sustainability of hungarian climate mitigation. we can see that because of brussels' irresponsible climate and energy policies, energy prices are already skyrocketing and inflation is rampant. we can't put the public in any more trouble. the costs of the green transition are not borne by them, but by the big polluters. instead of unrealistic leftist ideas that impede economic growth, we need real climate action that is environmentally and citizen friendly.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. how to govern well, how to make good decisions? every honest politician has to answer these questions. i suggest to you, ladies and gentlemen, that when you vote, you should have before you the faces of those europeans, the faces of the millions who live on wages, salaries, monthly incomes, struggling every month to pay all the bills. the faces of people who don't buy an electric car or live in a passive house not because they don't want to, but because when a gas boiler breaks down, it's hard to fix it, or even to buy a new pair of shoes for the kids. when we make decisions, we have to make them with their faces in front of us. the only way we will succeed in fighting climate change, the only way we will succeed in making europe energy independent is if we think about them, if we fight with them, if we go along with them. the creation of the european social climate fund is also a historic step in this respect. it is a historic achievement because it also shows that europe has learned from its mistakes, has learned from the economic crisis of 2008-2009 that the only way to build a strong, competitive world is to help people directly to become competitive and strong. so i ask you to vote for the creation of the european social climate fund, and let's create it to help people who have problems in their everyday lives paying their everyday bills. we should help them, not burden them. this will be a historic test of our ability to govern well. that way, we can make good decisions.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable presidency, honourable members, allow me to deliver the closing remarks also on behalf of commissioner gentiloni, who would have liked to be here. let me thank you for this fruitful and lively debate. we have heard you loud and clear, and we share many of your very legitimate concerns. the commission is fully committed to its role as the guardian of the treaties, now as much as ever. russia’s war of aggression in ukraine does but strengthen our conviction that our liberal democracies, based on the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms, must prevail. i will therefore make no compromise when it comes to protecting the rule of law, the eu’s founding principles and values or its financial interests. for the polish recovery and resilience plan to succeed, we have to make sure that every single euro is spent in line with those principles. this is why we will monitor and assess carefully its implementation of judiciary reforms included in the plan before any payment is made. this is key to support the economic and social resilience of poland, for poland to emerge stronger from the crisis at a time where the polish people have also shown their extraordinary generosity towards those fleeing ukraine. it is also essential to ensure the full credibility of the recovery and resilience facility and our joint european recovery plan. we should be very clear on what this positive assessment of the polish plan means and what it does not mean. it means that the plan fulfils all the assessment criteria under the rrf regulation. it does not mean that all issues related to rule of law are settled. with regard to the legal proceedings before the court of justice, the commission will continue to execute from poland’s daily penalty payments until full compliance with the order of 14 july 2021. the commission will not close an infringement or ask the court to discontinue a case before poland fully and effectively addresses all the issues that were identified by the commission. the rrf can only complement other eu instruments specifically intended to pursue the respect of the rule of law and protection of the financial interests of the union. i am referring to infringement proceedings against poland relating to violations of judicial independence. i am also referring to preliminary reference before the court of justice. furthermore, the procedure under article 7 of the treaty on european union, which has been triggered with poland in december 2017, is still ongoing. the commission will also soon publish its yearly rule of law report. finally, the rule of law conditionality regulation provides an additional instrument to protect the union’s financial instruments. honourable members, questions were also raised on the european commission proceedings, referring to the number of members of college voting against. to be precise, there were two members of college voting against. this is not the first time vote is taking place in college, something clearly foreseen in the rules of procedure. the positive assessment of poland’s recovery and resilience plan is a decisive moment to support the polish recovery and economy, even more so in a difficult context created by the war at its borders. however, it is only first step towards effectively disbursing any funds to poland. as reaffirmed by the president today, no money from the recovery and resilience facility will be disbursed to poland until the crucial milestones to strengthen the independence of judiciary are met. it will therefore be up to poland to live up to its commitments under its recovery and resilience plan, as it is the case for all member states.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to recall that the council and the member states attach the utmost importance to our common objective of protecting and strengthening the rule of law throughout our european union. as i said at the beginning of our debate, the french presidency of the european union has put the rule of law on the council's agenda on many occasions. the french presidency has spoken in plenary and before the libe committee on several occasions to inform the european parliament of the actions undertaken in the council. you have rightly said on many occasions that the rule of law is the beating heart of our union and our democracies and of our european construction. we must protect this precious asset, especially as freedoms are under attack at our very doors. it is therefore important to fully enforce the judgments and orders of the court of justice of the european union, in particular on the disciplinary chamber of the polish supreme court. some of you have mentioned that poland and the polish people have shown extraordinary solidarity with the ukrainian refugees. facilitating recovery and resilience represents a bold and coordinated action at european and national levels in response to covid-19. it has made it possible to move from crisis management to economic recovery. ambitious policy agendas and proposed funding at eu and national level will help to ensure a sustainable and inclusive recovery, enabling europe to achieve the dual transition - green and digital - and to become fairer and more resilient. national plans should help to overcome the challenges identified in the country recommendations, including rule of law issues for some member states. the council will continue to monitor the implementation of the facility and, where appropriate, give political impetus to guidelines to exploit the full potential of the facility. it is ready to consider the commission's proposal for the approval of the evaluation of the recovery and resilience plan for poland and will continue to ensure that, as with previously adopted plans, all plans meet the regulatory requirements for a positive evaluation.
the debate was closed with six motions for resolutions.1 see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 9 june 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the eu institutions have created the rule of law mechanism to ensure that the financial interests of the union are protected from governments that do not respect democratic values. the hungarian and polish governments have been undermining the rights of citizens deriving from the eu treaties, the democratic functioning of the countries, for several years now. we, the members of the european parliament, are sworn to represent the interests of our citizens. and it is in the interests of citizens that they, their children, their businesses, etc., should benefit from eu subsidies instead of their corrupt governments. therefore, we must use the newly created rule of law mechanism to protect the interests of citizens! we cannot allow the funds that are intended to help eu citizens to result in further enrichment of orbán, kaczyński and their circles!
the next item is the report (a9-0164 2022) by mr mcallister and mrs loiseau, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a european parliament recommendation to the council and the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu's foreign, security and defence policy following the russian invasion of ukraine (2022/2039 (ini)). i should now like to make the same announcements to you as regards the order of seating, the voting card, the speeches and the speaking time. i'm saving you this because i assume you know all this.
rapporteur. – mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the world is going through a period of geopolitical redefinition. the issues raised by russia’s war of aggression against ukraine go far beyond the tragic situation we are currently witnessing: europe as a whole is challenged. for a very long time, our parliament has been advocating for a stronger, more effective and more coherent common foreign security and defence policy. now, russia’s war against ukraine shows us that the european union has to equip itself urgently with the means and tools to respond to global strategic competition and also complex security threats. with our recommendation to the council and the high representative of the eu’s foreign security and defence policy, after the russian invasion of ukraine, we as parliament assessed the recent eu initiatives in this field, and made concrete proposals for the way forward. for us, eight key points should be taken into account at the meeting of the european council on 23 and 24 june and at the following nato summit in madrid on 29 and 30 june. namely, first, we recommend to work swiftly on the implementation of a strategic compass, in particular regarding the operational capability of the rapid deployment capacity. second, we recommend to review and strengthen csdp missions and operations in order to adapt to the new geopolitical reality, and promptly as well as efficiently support the ukrainian and moldovan authorities. third, we recommend to swiftly finalise the work on a substantial third eu-nato joint declaration and to ensure that the work on the strategic compass and the nato strategic concept are aligned and lead to increased strategic complementarity. fourth, we recommend to review the european neighbourhood policy with the aim of thoroughly assessing the impact of russia’s war against ukraine on cooperation with the eastern partnership, and to strengthen the eu’s enlargement strategy. fifth, we recommend to involve the european parliament appropriately in the further implementation of the cfsp and csdp, including the strategic compass and the european peace facility. number six, we recommend to ensure that the eu security and defence policy is equipped with the necessary financial means in order to be more effective and credible. seventh, we recommend to provide ukraine weapons and materiel in line with the needs expressed by the ukrainian authorities and to grant the country eu candidate status as a clear political sign of solidarity with the courageous people of ukraine. and eighth, we recommend to ensure a comprehensive monitoring of all eu sanctions and to strengthen the commission’s capacity to implement restrictive measures. dear colleagues, let me add a final extra point. the european council has requested the presentation of a possible european joint defence investment programme at its meeting in two weeks. clearly the european parliament should welcome such a programme, and we should be closely involved in the preparations. finally, allow me to propose a change to the title of this recommendation. instead of ‘russian invasion’, i suggest to change the wording to ‘russia’s war of aggression’ in order to adapt the language of the report to all our recently adopted texts. to conclude, let me thank the co-rapporteur, nathalie loiseau, as well as the shadow rapporteurs from all the groups for a really good, constructive and fruitful cooperation.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr mcallister and ms loiseau, for their work. we very much share the spirit of this document, the call to continue support ukraine and to enhance the eu’s security and defence. indeed, the russian war of aggression against ukraine has shown the need for a stronger and more capable european union in the field of security and defence. thus, your report is extremely timely. honourable members, the eu strongly stands with ukraine and supports it politically, militarily, humanitarianly and economically. our political and military commitment is absolutely clear and reiterated last week by the european council. our words are matched by deeds. we adopted the largest set of sanctions in eu history. only last week, leaders welcomed the sixth package of sanctions against russia to cover crude oil as well as petroleum products. the leaders also welcomed the new increase in military assistance to ukraine. the europe of tomorrow will emerge from the battlefields of ukraine. this is why, since the beginning of the war, we have supplied eur 2 billion in assistance to the ukrainian armed forces through the european peace facility. this is unprecedented. second, on eu security and defence, i fully subscribe to the report’s call for making genuine progress in foreign policy and defence cooperation at union level. russia’s unprovoked military aggression against ukraine and wider threats to european and global security made it even more evident. this is an attack also on europe and the whole democratic world. we need to be more united and more capable to act. for this, we need first and foremost to strengthen our defence capabilities. this is what eu leaders discussed last week, building on the defence investments gap analysis that the high representative has presented jointly with the commission. the message is clear: we need not only to invest more in defence but also invest better, which means together in a coordinated way. between 2009 and 2018, the eu has accumulated an under expenditure of around eur 160 billion, an underinvestment of around eur 44 billion. since 2018, figures have gone up and are expected to grow further following recent announcements. yet, collaborative defence investments are still too low. only 11% in 2020 and down to 8% in 2021. so, far below the agreed benchmark of 35%. this means fragmentation and waste of resources. we need to reverse this trend and to do more together. the communication puts forward a number of proposals to do so, starting with joint procurement. the european council has tasked the council to take the work forward and, as a chair of the fac defence, the high representative intends to do so without delay. the european defence agency will continue to play a central role in supporting member states in their efforts to strengthen their military capabilities, working closely with the commission. this is also part of the broader work in the framework of the strategic compass adopted in march, which provides the backbone to our security and defence efforts. as you know, the compass contains over 80 concrete actions that will allow us to make a quantum leap forward in security and defence. work is well underway, including on many of the topics mentioned in your report, such as making operational the rapid deployment capacity, the use of article 44 to increase our flexibility and swiftness of action or to increase the resilience of the eu and our partners. these are just a few examples of areas where much progress is taking place as we speak. honourable members, the war is not over yet, but we can clearly say that putin’s and the russian regime’s strategy has failed. instead of toppling the ukrainian government, it strengthened it. instead of dividing the eu and nato, it has united them. as rightly pointed out in your report, nato and the eu have never been so firmly united. last week, danish citizens decided in a referendum to abolish the defence opt-out. finland and sweden have applied to join nato. these are just recent examples of interest in the further progress of eu security and defence and in strengthening nato as a defence alliance. these decisions will bring additional strength and unity to nato and our common security defence policy and defence initiatives. we are doing precisely what the report calls for: enhancing cooperation with partners, in particular with nato. since the first day of russia’s invasion on 24 february, the eu and nato have demonstrated political unity and complementarity of efforts. we are in very close cooperation with our international partners to respond to russia’s military aggression against ukraine and its civilians. it could not be another way because the stakes are too high.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, this house has been discussing the need to strengthen our foreign policy for decades. and now here we are in the middle of a war next door, and europe still struggles to have a credible foreign policy stance. we are still very far away from our desire for strategic autonomy, and we still rely on third parties to provide for our own security. and we are still being held hostage by the ability of a single member state to veto. colleagues, europe is home to some of the most developed democracies in the world where human rights and rule of law reign supreme. so tell me, colleagues, why don’t we have the right tools to defend these values if they are threatened by malicious actors? of course, this is not to say that there have not been improvements. the eu’s immediate reaction after the russian invasion of ukraine was impressively quick. the csdp, pesco and the debate around the eu army are very much welcome developments. but honestly, tell me colleagues, are they enough ? when russia is knocking on our door, openly targeting our member states, the quickest solution is to scrap the unanimity rule in council. it really is that simple. we wasted an entire month with sanctions. for one month we put our indecisiveness out on full display. and what was the outcome? the perception that one member state won and the eu as a collective lost. it’s time to get serious about ending unanimity. furthermore, we as the eu, we also must increase our presence in both the eastern neighbourhood and in the western balkans. the eu must position itself as the only viable alternative for accession or candidate country’s future, and i refuse to believe that these are impossible goals. we have a window of opportunity now. i hope both the council and commission recognise this. and, as always, the parliament is ready to do what it takes to put the eu at the forefront of global foreign policy.
mr president, colleagues, we are discussing a draft report that attempts to rectify a long—standing anachronism, a taboo and an absurdity: the only european institution directly elected by the people, hence attaining the highest legitimacy by democratic standards and yet stripped of its right to initiate legislation. if there ever was a justification for this farce, recent historical and geopolitical developments have certainly showed the need for change. i hear the critics of this proposal who are trying to convince us that european sovereignty is a fiction, that a stronger parliament is a threat to national sovereignty and a cul—de—sac. such critics have a vested interest in upholding the status quo: a weak parliament without a right to initiative; a weak and appointed commission prone to blackmail; and a weak council subjected to internal deadlocks due to national vetoes. colleagues, it’s time to get the priorities and balance amongst our institutions right. adopting this report is a step in that direction.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european parliament, by claiming that its members are directly elected, would claim more rights than are currently granted to it by the treaties adopted by the member states. i admit there is no institution that does not require more licenses, it is the nature of institutions. there is no question that the national parliaments, not the european parliament, are the bearers of sovereignty. it would therefore be wrong and wrong to equate european and national parliaments. if the european parliament were to be given a general legislative initiative, it would limit the powers of the european commission. on the other hand, it would anticipate a deterioration of the interests of the member states. this would upset the institutional balance, which is contrary to the purpose and spirit of the treaties currently in force. finally, i would like to ask what you are looking for in this report on the rule of law in hungary. as we hungarians say, what are boots doing on the table? instead of useless ideological debates, it would be better to focus on the real problems.
in writing. the european parliament considers that the eu treaties need to be amended and that the convention should be convened to this end. the basis of reference is the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe, which failed and lacked any legitimacy. we knew from the very beginning of the conference that those who were holding the pen wanted to take the future of the european union in a different direction. we have nevertheless participated in the debate in good faith and with integrity, because we really care about the unity of europe. we do not believe in centralisation and an ideologically driven europe. we are attracted to a european integration based on cooperation between member states and respecting their national identities. we want european integration to provide effective answers to the questions that concern european citizens. european integration has long been a success story with many outcomes. however, over the past 15 years, the european union has faced a number of challenges that have shaken confidence in its integration. and when there is trouble, it is especially necessary for the countries of europe to come together. in contrast, today there is division, mistrust of the governments of the member states, unnecessary rule of law debates and proceedings. to restore the european union's seemingly shaky credibility, much less ideology and professional action in the interests of the member states are needed.
madam president, dear colleagues, commissioner, the recovery fund regulation forces the eu to finally confront democratic backsliding after one decade of inaction. and in case of the orbán government in hungary, the conditions could not be clearer: address the fact that the chief prosecutor is a party loyalist – joining the eppo could be a good first step for her; reform the public procurement system; let journalists access public information. the conditions are very clear and the tools are there. now, all we need is credible enforcement, and sadly, it is not the commission’s strongest suit. non-transparent backroom deals will not get us results, as the polish case very clearly shows. so this begs the question, why aren’t the commission’s negotiations public ? why aren’t local governments or civil society involved more? more transparency would go a long, long way to actually achieve results. hungarians suffer under a terrible cost-of-living crisis. our currency exchange rate is in freefall. hungarians need these funds, but they also need them to get to struggling schools, hospitals and businesses.
in writing. the revision of the european gas supply regulation is an important step forward. it is important that the european commission has finally recognised the role of natural gas storage in the fight against energy prices. sadly, this has to be seen in the face of the worst energy crisis in decades. the proposal before parliament is a victory for common sense, for the following reasons. on the one hand, it was possible to prevent the brussels plan, which would have made the countries with large storage facilities, such as hungary, pay the price of european energy security. on the other hand, the united action of the member states has also enabled us to break the brussels bubble, another experiment in gas storage. the security of energy supply for hungary and europe is our top priority. we will not allow brussels to make decisions that harm families over our heads, based on irresponsible, green ideologies.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the social impact of the giant platforms is felt by all of us, as they influence our habits and decisions on a daily basis. the proposal on digital services and markets is therefore key as it aims to create a transparent and secure online space. it is important that technology companies no longer arbitrarily set the rules of the game, and that our citizens are not left entirely at their mercy. as social media is an increased source of danger for minors, our children may become more vulnerable to harassment, violence or intimidation in the digital space. i therefore welcome the proposal to protect minors, as the tech giants can no longer publish ads tailored to our children. i hope that in the future, we will effectively enforce the principle that what is illegal offline is illegal online.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, skyrocketing electricity and gas bills, unsustainable gasoline prices, rising cost of living, falling raw materials, sharp fall in the purchasing power of wages: these are the real problems our citizens face every day and they must be solved as soon as possible. we all have a duty to give concrete help to millions of italian and european families, who are being squeezed by inflation and by an unprecedented economic, energy and social crisis. we need quick solutions and real money before the situation escalates into explosive social conflicts in the autumn. in this dramatic context, however, we are witnessing the mad proposals of the italian and european left. in italy, at this time of devastating crisis, the left has made it a priority on the political agenda to liberalize cannabis and give citizenship to immigrants. stop wasting time with this nonsense. enough of this talk. just chase the ghosts of a lefty who lives on the moon, detached from reality. we have a duty to solve the real problems of our citizens and we have to do it now, before it's too late.
president of the commission for the people back home, life becomes priceless. inflation is at its highest level in decades. the electricity bill, the price of gasoline, diesel, gas and a full shopping cart at the supermarket: it's all getting more expensive. there are two reasons for this. the first is the failure of energy policy. by stubbornly sticking to utopian climate goals and ill-conceived sanctions, energy prices are now skyrocketing. the second cause is financial policy - the responsibility of our policymakers and central bankers. the massive debt buying and the encouragement of exorbitant spending, such as nextgenerationeu, and the failure to reform in some member states, are today reaping the inflation they have sown. well, what should we do for the people back home? save the billions on those unrealistic climate targets and keep energy affordable and accessible. the eu and governments must start to shrink. cut into your own meat, reform and reduce the burden on the citizens. that's what people expect from politics. that's what we have to do.
mr president, commissioner, as we speak, a minority of speculators continue to profit shamelessly from crises and war, while the citizens of europe suffer. they are suffering from soaring prices in all sectors, including food and energy, and, it must be said, after years of the covid-19 crisis, our european peoples are exhausted. they are tired of seeing their living conditions continue to deteriorate after making a lot of effort. what they expect from us today is immediate decisions and the ability, in exceptional times, to take exceptional measures. taxing the profiteers of the crisis now so that the record profits of multinationals will stop, controlling energy prices, lowering vat on basic necessities, indexing wages to inflation, increasing the european fund for the poorest so that everyone can eat three times a day - these, mr president, are immediate decisions which would be effective and which could now enable millions of europeans to live and not just survive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. if we are talking today about initiatives to tackle inflation, then everyone should be aware that we are talking about the perfectly foreseeable consequences of a fundamental failure of the european central bank. the ecb's irresponsible zero-interest policy, fuelled by its gigantic bond-buying programmes, has almost systematically created this inflation monster. for comparison, while the inflation rate in switzerland is currently around 3% due to global price pressures, we have a rate of over 8% in the euro area. this is the fault of ecb president lagarde and her central bank board, who have fundamentally failed in their mandate to ensure price stability. the consequences of this are now being felt above all by the socially weak, who are always the first victims of inflation. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. this is just a helpless cure for symptoms. what we need now is a longer period of hard and restrictive monetary policy by the european central bank. the medicine is now becoming much more bitter than if it had been started earlier, as all the experts have basically recommended. but it is indispensable. and i'm telling you, with ms. lagarde at the helm, it's not gonna happen.
mr president, honourable commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, inflation in the euro area and the european union is now at record levels. a family will now have to choose what to buy and what not to buy, because they will have almost 10% less. the european union started as a peace project, but the economic prosperity it has brought is what sustains us to a large extent today. people like europe because they have a quiet, good and safe life here. today we take a very firm and clear position against russian aggression. we accept sanctions and embargoes. and those are the real steps. but to ensure that they are not too burdensome and unacceptable for citizens, we must take concrete action to offset any negative effects. the measures to do just that need to be practical and targeted. we need to support people at risk, but we also need to support businesses in their recovery, because only large, strong, rapid economic growth can offset record inflation.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the cost of living is skyrocketing across europe, and it is in such an emergency that the government of a member state decides to regulate the price of petrol, for example, by way of a price control. in hungary, the hungarian government introduced the official price as part of the election campaign. but the election is over, and the government is about to get rid of the tariffs because of the threat to the security of supply. yet he dares not speak out, for he fears that the high price of gasoline will naturally incur the wrath of the hungarians. what does the fat-faced populist do in this situation? he uses a trick, forbidding non-hungarian citizens to buy petrol at the official price at hungarian petrol stations. he does this knowing full well that he is violating eu law, since he cannot distinguish between eu citizens. but that's the point. the government is eager for the european commission to act against the tariffs, because then it can point the finger at brussels, as the cause of all evil, that they want to take the tariffs. i therefore ask the commission not to fall for this trick, not to give an excuse for another anti-eu campaign. this is now in the social interest of hungarian society and the political interest of the european union.
mr. president and madam commissioner. today we are debating a crucial proposal. the stakes are high: providing affordable and sustainable energy to our citizens, or jeopardizing the achievements of the past, thereby unleashing runaway prices, unpredictable energy prices on the population. although many in this room are afraid to say it, the fact is the fact. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. these energy sources are environmentally friendly technologies that can be used to produce large amounts of low-cost, zero-emission electricity, ensuring the sustainability of member states' mitigation measures. i ask my fellow mps to consider carefully their vote tomorrow. in the current situation, the key is to maintain the security and affordability of energy supply in a long-term and sustainable manner. (the speaker agrees to reply to two greeting cards)
it's a two-card answer. thank you very much for both your questions. i think it's very, very important for two reasons that we reject this objection tomorrow and save the taxonomy delegated act. one is that many experts, including experts from the european commission, have already said that it is impossible for the european union to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 without nuclear energy and natural gas. the second argument, which is very, very important, is that it is also quite clear, and we have heard a lot of experts say that low energy prices in the short, medium and long term, and in those member states where there are measures to reduce emissions, their sustainability, can only be achieved with these two sources of energy in my view.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to appreciate the russian influence on our democracy, we did not even need to hear the words of mrs donato in this chamber a few moments ago, we only need to look at what is happening in our territories every day. i'll give you a few examples from italy: the then legalist councillor edoardo rixi even decided to go on an official mission to the liguria region in crimea immediately after the illegal annexation to russia, the councillor of fratelli d'italia in piedmont, maurizio marrone, for years qualified as the representative in italy of the republic of donetsk and still does not answer when questioned about this link, and salvini, in addition to the ties with putin, recently tried to organize a trip to russia through the russian ambassador to italy unbeknownst to president draghi. i could go on. there is a right wing which, especially in some countries, has not fully overcome its ambiguities in its relations with putin and his entourage. we must therefore continue with journalistic and judicial investigations and we must strengthen the instruments for protecting our democracy, first of all to make it work and to show that, with the culture of rights and freedom, we are stronger than any authoritarianism.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. if you look at the facebook wall or turn on the mass media in hungary today, you're likely to come across fake news, fake news about russia defending itself, about ukrainian aggressors or about ukrainian nazis. how is this possible four months after the outbreak of war in an eu member state? the measures taken by the union so far have not proved sufficient. vladimir putin continues to stir up propaganda through far-right parties with whom he has close ties and through social media. even though we've banned several russian media outlets from ukraine, from the eu, further action is needed. first, the links between european parties and putin must be made transparent. second, we need to ban russian propaganda from social media. third, we need to strengthen the eu's cyber defence. let's not let vladimir putin destroy ukraine and poison the minds of europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this debate and i welcome your efforts to keep the post-cotonou agreement high on the agenda. today’s debate just confirmed that the commission and parliament are on the same page in this regard and i really appreciate the very strong support from this house in stressing the urgency on this matter. to be credible towards our citizens, our partners, in our commitments to deepening relations with the african, caribbean and pacific regions we need to swiftly move forward with the signature and provisional application of the post-cotonou agreement. if there is one thing the current geopolitical context clearly shows us it is that we need to act swiftly and firmly, that we need to forge stronger relations with our allies, and that we have to do that together, unified as a team europe. so with this, i very much hope that we can count on the council to sign the post-cotonou agreement in the very near future.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner sinkevičius, thank you for this debate and exchange of views. yes, as many of you have said, the world has changed and has become more complex with many challenges, including an unprecedented war in our neighbourhood, with a serious impact in europe and all over the world. and this concerns also african, caribbean and pacific regions and countries. earlier today, we discussed the issue of food security crisis that impacts this region and the ways to tackle it. in such troubled times, the value of alliances and partnerships increases even more. i understand the frustration that has been expressed here. and i can assure you that the council will continue its work to find a solution and finalise the process. timely implementation of the agreement and the strengthening of our partnership with the organisation of african, caribbean and pacific states remain a priority for both sides, and the czech presidency will treat it as a priority. the post-cotonou agreement demonstrates the value we attach to this partnership and its implementation will allow us to work better on solutions together with our partners. thank you very much for your attention.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, minister, dear colleagues, we have many debates in this house, but if there is one debate, one thing that should unite us all from left to right, it is the aim of protecting the european union’s financial interests and strengthening our framework to monitor our eu funds. it is the aim of making sure that european taxpayers’ money actually reaches the ones who need it. and it has never been more important than now, with the cost of living crisis raging through europe. protecting the union’s financial interests is also not an ideological issue, and it should not be a divisive one. this is basic common sense. so i certainly hope that this report can count on your wide support. there have been many good improvements in the course of 2020 and this report welcomes these. the creation of the european public prosecutor’s office, the new rule of law conditionality regulation and the strengthening of olaf have all been consequential, and it will help better protect our financial interests. but also we need to do more. as we talk to the representatives of these institutions, one common issue they raised was that more staff and more funds are needed for anti-fraud work. and it’s really a fair point. we have a historic new recovery fund. we have a much bigger budget. but our capacities to control this budget are not strengthened in parallel. protecting our financial interests has costs, but spending more on anti-fraud is actually saving us money in the end, and also beyond that, we need to improve the interoperability of the existing systems to create a better exchange of information and to avoid overlaps. we’re also calling for binding legal obligations for member states to feed into the eu’s database of beneficiaries, which is called arachne. it is really absurd that we don’t even have a transparent list of final beneficiaries of eu funds. edes, a blacklist to exclude fraudulent applicants, is an important tool as well. but up until now it has not covered funds in shared management, and shared management covers 80% of all eu funds. we know it. so we were very, very pleased to hear that the european commission has just rectified this in the new financial regulation. and also, finally, what we desperately need now is credible enforcement from the side of the commission. we can have the best, the most well-designed legal instruments, but they are all pointless if the commission refuses to apply them. so just take the recovery fund as an example, the conditions are crystal-clear and the tools are there, but what about the enforcement? non-transparent backroom deals will not get us the results. why isn’t the public properly informed about the commission’s negotiations? i hope this can change in the future. so, colleagues, a box of shiny new tools does not make a good mechanic. and similarly, in the case of the protection of the eu’s financial interests, it is not just a toolbox that matters, but also what the commission makes of it. so i am hoping to work together on this, also in the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as vice-chairman of the committee on budgetary control, i would like to begin by thanking everyone for their efforts in the fight against financial fraud, including the rapporteur, because financial fraud directly affects all citizens. the stolen funds could be invested in education, health care or the improvement of the living standards of the citizens of the european union. every fraud detected is a success, but the fight for the financial interests of the european union needs to be intensified. financial fraud is more attractive to organised crime groups because of the poor investigations, particularly in the agricultural sector. it's like an octopus with its claws everywhere, shoving them into all sorts of taxpayer pockets and sucking them out. i therefore take the report of the committee on budgetary control as the expected recommendations and measures and call on the commission to press hard for the detection of financial fraud. and madam president, i've been dragging on for ten minutes, you've been dragging on for half an hour, look how much time has passed, how much time has passed, and so to wait here for ten seconds is a bit, i would say, too much.
in this report, we have seen the usual ideological attacks on hungary and poland, and it is clear that the rapporteur is not interested in facts, such as hungary being the first to conclude a cooperation agreement with the european public prosecutor's office, or the fact that the rate of prosecutions based on olaf recommendations in hungary is 67%, almost double the eu average of 35%. the european prosecutor general himself has repeatedly said that they are excellent at working with the hungarian authorities. but it is also a well-known fact that the role of a credible and trustworthy rapporteur is extremely important in the work of the european parliament, and it is therefore unacceptable that the czech katalin should be involved in the annual fraud report as if she herself had been involved in a serious fraud case against eu funds. this fact makes the procedure completely discreditable and further undermines the trust in the eu institutions. i therefore call on the czech rapporteur, katalin, to return to her mandate.
mr president, there will always be people who cheat. if there is a motive and there is an opportunity, many simply cannot resist the temptation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in 2020, a total of eur 371 million in fraud was reported. so this is serious money. and these were just the reported cases. if the policy is maintained, we can expect to double this amount every year in the future. and with the unreported fraud, we're talking billions a year. the fight against fraud within the eu must therefore be improved. now this is mostly instrumental with lots of rules and procedures and focused on detecting and prosecuting the guilty. the commission must do more to prevent fraud, and this can be done through transparency. the technology is there. it's just a matter of doing. i would like to see all eu spending made digitally visible, so that everyone can see where eu money is being spent, for what purpose, who is involved and at what stage the project is. we all have a right to that, and it lowers the so-called cost of control. after all, it is not just the eu's financial interests that are at stake, but the financial interests of us all.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for today’s debate on this very important subject, and in particular the rapporteur for her extremely important work. i think it’s clear to all of us that effective protection of the financial interests of the eu requires our collective and coordinated efforts. as we heard during the debate, allowing eu funds to land in the wrong pockets is not only about the intended recipients losing out. misguided public funds can actually create additional harm. the commission will, therefore, continue to do everything in its power to improve and increase the level of protection that is already in place. we will do so by developing all tools at our disposal, bridging sectors and work streams. we will work closely with our partners across the eu, both at european and at national level, to make sure that eu funds are protected from those that would do it harm. i look forward to working with you to make sure that we are as good as we can be in this respect.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, thanks for this debate. and as i said in the beginning, protecting the union’s financial interests is not an ideological issue. and certainly i hope it should not be a divisive one. even the hungarian government is implicitly agreeing now, as they are back at the negotiating table trying to offer some concessions to the eu. it looks like some colleagues did not get the memo about this, nor do they respect the parliament enough not to bring their russian—style disinformation campaign to the plenary chamber or only to wait for the response after they staged such funny allegations. but i have to say, arguing against the strengthening of our anti-fraud framework is not really a smart move politically. if a government has nothing to hide, then why are they running away from monitoring? it is almost an admission of guilt. so i certainly hope that the majority of the parliament agrees and supports the text as it is, and works together for more ambitious reforms in our anti-fraud architecture and to protect our european money from the fraudsters. this is our common goal in this house, from left to right.
mr president deforestation and forest destruction are occurring at an alarming rate around the world. increasing trade in agricultural products will also require more land. the current extension of powers proposed by parliament is justified for several products, but introducing it for certain products would be an excessive bureaucratic burden and a competitive disadvantage. several eu member states can set a good example in forest protection, including my country, hungary, where only timber harvested can be replanted. we are currently running one of the largest afforestation and afforestation programmes in europe, supporting the planting of 44,000 hectares of new forests in two years. these patterns should also make it clear to our global partners that without curbing deforestation, all the eu's efforts to mitigate climate change are limited. let's continue to work together on the green path, let's work together for a greener environment.
mr president viktor orbán is trying to trick you by creating an independent body to investigate corruption cases in his government. we are talking about orbán, who for the past 12 years has been stealing as if there were no tomorrow, every single penny of eu aid has been put into the pockets of his family and friends, average hungarian people have not received eu aid. viktor orbán is trying to trick you! he just wants the euro billions to start up again, and he can steal again because he wants to steal, and he's been doing it for the last 12 years. you hold your hand while blaming brussels for everything, saying that you're the reason why goods are expensive in the shops, saying that you're the reason why there's record inflation, and saying that you're the reason why hungarian teachers don't get a raise. we know that this is a lie, and there is only one person responsible for this, viktor orbán himself. if viktor orbán is serious about fighting corruption, there is only one thing he can do: he will not create a sham body, but will join the european public prosecutor's office.
mr president my fellow members of parliament! we are making history! years from now, this house will be remembered as having put an end to that unjust world where european countries competed with each other to make labour cheaper and more vulnerable. you were, you will be, and i think we should be proud of ourselves, of the european parliament. but allow me to address my fellow hungarians first. we promised, we did it! there are european minimum wage regulations, which are binding on governments. i know that the hungarian prime minister is against everything that is europe, i know that he will be against this, but i think that in the last few days, in the last few weeks we have seen what happens to those who mess with history, who oppose europe, the total collapse in all areas of life. it's our job to make sure that the hungarians get a decent european salary. we will.
in writing. as the winter months approach, our main task is to do everything we can to ensure that europeans have access to energy without burdening households and families. the measures should take this into account. the cap, on the other hand, is a disguised energy sanction that would force russian gas out of the european market. this would pose a serious risk to energy supply and would not lead to a price decrease. in most member states, heating in homes and institutions must be switched on within a few weeks, and we cannot afford to make decisions that put users at a disadvantage or even in a disadvantageous situation. in view of the above, we cannot support the introduction of a price cap under any circumstances. we need measures that aim to solve the crisis, not to deepen it!
in writing. – although more than 25 years have passed since the barcelona declaration, and more than 10 years since the events of the arab spring, the mediterranean region is still facing a number of serious economic, environmental and security challenges. the european neighbourhood policy (enp) must serve the interest of the union, its member states and the enp partners at the same time. we must help our partner countries in the southern neighbourhood, based on shared interests. we cannot let the enp become an educational exercise: there needs to be equality, spirit of partnership and we must turn our common challenges into opportunities. the stability of the mediterranean region has an outstanding importance for the stability of europe. we need to invest in education, in research and development, and in creating jobs for the region’s growing population, while also committing to combating ‘brain drain’. furthermore the european union must acknowledge countries like morocco, which serve as regional examples with their results and stability. the protection of persecuted christians is of utmost importance as well: this is another area, where we need effective cooperation with out southern neighbourhood partners.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i do not share the commissioner's satisfaction that he said he was delighted with today's debate. i do not share this satisfaction, because today the european parliament and all the eu institutions have to face the biggest challenges facing the european union today: putin, inflation, the energy crisis and the war in ukraine. and in the meantime, we're once again dealing with the hungarians. the commissioner was kind enough to say that the european commission is the guardian of the treaties. commissioner, i think you have not read the treaties very well, because the report we are discussing today criticises hungary for the organisation of the judiciary. so i would remind you that this is a matter for the member states. hungary is also criticised for its electoral law, which is also a matter for the member states. the same is true of religious freedom, freedom of the press, health care, and protection of children from pedophilia. you know the drill. the european union today should respond to the challenges it faces, not indulge in such fruitless discussions, and it is... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, here we go again, debating and highlighting the situation in hungary. i wish we would not have to but the situation when it comes to the independence of the judiciary, media, fundamental rights, women’s rights, refugee’s rights, lgbti rights, everything is going in the wrong direction. democracy is under attack in the heart of europe. their view of democracy is that if you win an election, you don't have to respect the independence of the judiciary. you don't have to respect the need for free media. you don't have to respect fundamental rights of women or lgbti people. well, that's not a vision of democracy that is eligible. you just cannot uphold an ideology like that. that's the far right. that's the extreme right. it's an extremely dangerous threat. and now, it was maybe even just a question of time, we see the attacks on women’s rights, women’s right to decide over our bodies, abortion rights, are being attacked at this very moment. we listen very carefully to ursula von der leyen, we listen very carefully to you, commissioner, but you are not doing enough. we want to have a very, very clear stance. there is going no money to hungary, to orbán and his oligarchs, to continue to dismantle democracy. we have been there with the rapporteur, ms delbos corfield, we have been meeting people that stand every day and fight to protect democracy and fundamental rights in hungary. and we will continue to stand with them. i will go later this month to hungary to celebrate lesbian visibility and rights and stand up for women’s rights and lgbti rights in hungary. and you should know out there that we stand with you, we will stand with everyone fighting for democracy in hungary but we also expect the commission to do their part of the work. you are not doing enough. you have to step up.
madam president, please. it is shameful that a section of the parliament, in the arms of the hungarian left-wing meps, is continuing the political slander campaign against hungary even in this war crisis situation. don't you think we have more important things to do? don't you think we should be dealing with the crisis, the economic uncertainty that has been created by the war and the failed sanctions in brussels? tens of millions of people in europe are faced with unpaid bills at the end of the month, with economic problems, with companies going bankrupt, with uncertainty, with unemployment, and instead you here are attacking hungary with lies a hundred times over. based on the past years, we can say: you can negotiate with hungary and you can agree that the agreement is the goal, but you do not want to do that, you want to blackmail, not to agree. they want to blackmail us because they can't accept that the hungarians have said no to the hungarian left for the fourth time this spring and they have said no to the brussels lectures. so they fabricate false reports, send fake fact-finding commissions to hungary, and threaten sanctions, but understand: for us, the national interest will always come first, even if you don't like it. keep your hands off hungary!
madam president, ministers, commissioner, in this report parliament once again lists the evidence, the evidence, which shows that there is an autocratic deviation in the hungarian government. now, as i have always said on this subject, the first responsibility for this situation, apart from those who have obviously committed the violations of article 2, is the european council, it is the council, because it has in its hands the capacity to implement article 7 and it has never done so. moreover, it would have the capacity to exert informal pressure. we recall that in the year 2000 a number of countries, without any need for any article of the treaty, had clear positions on austria. so there were various ways of intervening, and the council always resigned. the question is this: the situation has worsened every time we have a debate here on fundamental rights, judicial independence, freedom of expression, minority rights. the situation has been worsening since 2012, 2014 and 2015, and although parliament has triggered article 7, the truth is that the council has done nothing. there is an even more complex factor today, the question of the war in ukraine, where the hungarian government has been the only government in the european context to show signs of ambiguity regarding putin's dictatorship. (the speaker accepts to reply to an intervention 'blue card')
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. madam president, i have a question: the basis of democracy is the independence of the judiciary, as we all know very well. but how is it possible that the european parliament, or its libe or afco committees, are silent on the phenomenon of the politicization of justice in western countries? let me give you an example: the constitutional council in france. who's the president? laurent fabius, former prime minister and former leader of the socialist party, or juppé... (the president withdrew the floor)
sorry, i have to intervene. you are speaking too long. simply to explain the rules: 30 seconds for blue cards, so come to an end. i simply would like to remind all members present in the room and wanting to raise a blue card, you have 30 seconds for your comment or question, not longer.
blue-card reply. – so it’s a pleasure to reply to you, colleague trócsányi. it’s very clear that very different organisations, independent and impartial, have said that the judicial independence in hungary is at risk. and the example that you gave on france or others that sometimes mr orbán has given in the electoral system about england, they are examples that don’t see the context. (reactions from the floor)yes! i’m going to explain to you if you want. in the case of the electoral system in britain – now i have to say this – the parliament is not responsible for legislation like the parliament in hungary is, because it is a system that is not a roman—german system. and that completely changes the context, the political and constitutional context. so you cannot isolate some characteristics of a system ... (the president cut off the speaker)
i understand you completely, mr rangel, that you also answered longer than the question was taken, but i just simply would recall the rules to all of you – 30 seconds when there is a blue card, and 30 seconds also for the answer. it’s good the debate is lively, but we should respect our rules.
madam president, i am first and foremost a proud hungarian family man. secondly, as a social democrat member of the european parliament, and in both capacities, i am extremely saddened by the situation in my country. the pre-war, rampant inflation, the historic plunge of the forint, the astonishing depth of the costs of the regime, so that while other countries are helping their citizens, we are withdrawing the support of the regime from the citizens. the situation of pensioners, the situation of young refugees, our teachers in education, in health care, the patients and the workers: the state of the country is terrible. and we have a lying government. a lying fidesz here and at home, because it's always someone else's fault: it's always soros' fault, it's always juncker's fault, it's always the migrants' fault, it's always the movement that promotes non-transformative surgery in kindergartens, it's always the european union's fault, and of course it's always me, as a non-fidesz politician. balázs winter said in a political debate that i hate my nation: i will claim it for myself! i am here because i defend the interests of the whole hungarian people, not the system that you serve at home, in a criminal way. because i know that the question of who is wrong can be answered very simply after 12 years of government. the incompetence of the government, the breakdown of the rule of law, the immense state corruption and indeed putin's servility: these are the causes of the problems of hungarian society. and i'm extremely sad that we're back in this situation. you will betray your country at home, and i must tell you once again, i represent and defend my country. we deserve the money, hungarian society deserve the eu funds, but not so that the orbán government steals it. and let me quote again, i have repeatedly made the european parliament's last written proposal for electoral policy, in which they said in 2009 that we had often been in the situation that the interests of hungarian citizens were represented by brussels against the hungarian government, that hungarian democracy has a huge need for control, that it can even be called to account for democratic governance, said the fidesz campaign in 2009. this is what's happening. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by a greeting card)
it's a two-card answer. hungarian society fought for hungary's membership in the european union. back in the early 1990s, when i was a teenager, we campaigned to be accepted and for hungarian society to decide by referendum on european membership. two-thirds of the hungarian population, and even a large part of the fidesz voters, are clearly in favor of the european union. to us, to hungarian society, to the hungarian people and to our children - i say this as the father of a family of six children - only the european union can ensure stability, peace and a predictable future. this is our europe, and we must uphold its values.
madam president, dear colleagues, with this report, the european parliament is about to become the first eu institution to officially declare that hungary is not a full democracy anymore. and that is incredibly painful to say it out loud. it hurts. because my generation was the first one to grow up in a democracy. and for now it looks like we are also the last ones. but, you know, this only gives us a little bit more reason to keep on fighting. and i know that the first step in dealing with a problem is recognising there is one. so this is happening now and i’m glad for that, this is a step forward. but there is still a very, very long way to go. and i have to say that i am very worried about the highly untransparent backroom dealings the commission has been conducting with the hungarian government. so i would recommend you commissioner, and also to your team, to come to hungary. i know you’ve been before, but also just to go on the ground, visit the people, go to the local governments, see our schools, see our hospitals, talk to the people who use these services or who are being deprived from it. and then maybe it will be very, very clear for everybody that the eu support has to arrive directly to those people who are suffering the consequences of the eu’s first autocratic government. our renew europe group laid out the roadmap to this smart conditionality proposal. in case of systemic breaches of the rule of law, redirect funds to people who need it the most. commissioner, it is not too late. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – i am hungarian. i am a proud citizen of hungary. i don’t think i know it better than anybody, but this is the feeling that is coming from the bottom of my heart. this is the feeling i am using day by day to fight for the country where i want to raise my kids. there might be different arguments, but i’m 100% sure that hungary has to be a democracy. it has to be a part of the european union and me and my generation and my party, momentum, will continue to fight for this, and i’m thankful for all the support we are feeling here in the european parliament for a democratic hungary.
blue-card speech. – mr jaki, i very rarely agree with you, but when i do, it’s usually about the speeches you make about russia and about the war and about the horrors of russia’s war that is being waged in ukraine and targeting innocent civilians. so on that, i think we are on the same page. however, my question would be, do you ever ask your hungarian friends about the blatant russian propaganda that is flowing from the hungarian public televisions? or do you ask them about the incredibly outrageous vetoes they are facing? don’t you feel bad to have friends like this if you are having such a principled position on this war?
madam president, colleagues, the fact that viktor orbán is not here today is a confession. if he was here, he could perhaps answer the question. what are the unique circumstances faced by hungary and no other country in europe that justify rule by decree? in his absence, let me tell you there are no such circumstances. it serves the sole purpose of eliminating the last bulwarks of democracy. furthermore, he is doing it from european taxpayers’ money by building a regime based on systemic corruption. as you can see, there are some advocates of this regime present here today who will try to demonstrate to you that stipulations of this report are fake and it’s an attack against hungary. at home they will also spread lies in their media that you want to force hungarian schoolchildren to undergo sex reassignment surgeries. unfortunately, your diagnosis is accurate, and hungarians know it’s not an attack against them, but against their authoritarian regime. but they also expect that the eu finds a way to pay funds directly to the people, not via its compromised government.
author. – madam president, this summer, as the parliament went into summer recess, a small delegation of us travelled to uganda. but however beautiful the country is, we did not go there for holidays. we were there because one of the world’s most biologically diverse regions is in grave danger. the communities whose livelihood depends on this region are facing an existential threat. and those civil society actors and journalists who are courageous enough to point this out are harassed, detained and persecuted. the east african crude oil pipeline might have the potential to bring economic benefits for ugandans and tanzanians, but this must not happen at the expense of irreversible damage to natural reserves. this cannot happen to the detriment of human rights and through the suffering of hundreds of thousands of people who are being displaced by this project. so this is why we are calling on the ugandan and tanzanian authorities to stop hindering the work of observers and civil society organisations who want to ensure that the construction inflicts no damage on the local population and nature. and, at the same time, we are also asking totalenergies to halt the project for one year in order to assess a better alternative pipeline. just because local authorities turn a blind eye on something does not mean that it is right or moral. and european companies should be aware of that. they should lead by example, by respecting the principles of corporate due diligence, the rights of those impacted by investments, and an obligation to preserve our environment. if this does not happen voluntarily, that it will after we enact a mandatory corporate due diligence framework for all european companies. but until then, we have to stand up for the rights of ugandans and tanzanians because it seems their own government will not do it for themselves.
madam president, please. the reform of the rules governing european political parties is in some respects unacceptable to us, a kind of new trojan wall. political parties play a decisive role in shaping and expressing the will of the people. the rules governing them, both at european and national level, must be such as to ensure that parties can freely choose their values. the regulation we are about to see, however, seeks to impose ideological controls on the free choice of values of political parties, both at european and national level. it is easy to accuse anyone who is critical of the prevailing wind of disrespect for european values. we can only support a rule which applies exclusively to the free movement of european political parties and does not seek to invade, even covertly, areas such as national referendums, where it has no place. we can only agree to the rules of the report that are in line with the requirements of regulation at european level.
in writing. the coronavirus pandemic has fundamentally changed everyone's lives and created a whole new world in which there is an even greater need for achievable goals and effective health programmes. in the future, the eu will need to react more quickly to unforeseen health threats. the development of the european centre for disease prevention and control could pave the way for even more effective cooperation between the eu institutions and the member states, thus ensuring the protection of the health of our citizens. however, i think it is important to note that health is a member state competence and must remain so in the future. once it has been proven that nation states are able to act and react quickly and efficiently, the eu institutions cannot substitute for individual member states' actions. the union should only make greater efforts in the general direction of strengthening the protection of the population against cross-border health threats and promoting the availability and affordability of medicines and medical devices. it is therefore important that the european health union facilitates crisis management and does not create new obstacles for member states.
thank you for your time, madam president. today marks the end of a legislative process that has lasted more than a decade. the drive to standardize chargers has finally been achieved. i welcome the fact that the proposal will significantly reduce the amount of electronic waste, which is an important step towards an environmentally conscious europe, and will make life easier for consumers. i believe that the most important task in our work in the european parliament is to create future-oriented, consumer-friendly legislation that directly benefits citizens with sustainability in mind. i wish eu legislation was always as effective and people-centred. instead of endless ideological debates, we need more proposals, like the one we have now, that are forward-looking and make the daily lives of europeans easier. let's keep going down this road.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i remember a time not so long ago when there was no opposition in the council to deploying the troika to force greece, portugal and spain to clean up their national budgets and subject them to the authoritarian doxa of the 'austerity' policies of the european semester. but when it comes to corruption, the independence of the judiciary, our values, the application of the charter of fundamental rights, the rule of law, in fact, then we wriggle, and the process is very tedious. what we are asking the commission and the council today is the full application of the rule of law mechanism and not a discounted application against hungary. and we also ask for guarantees for the budgetary independence of the european public prosecutor's office. (the speaker agrees to answer a question)
blue card answer mr rzońca, i thought i had to answer a serious question, but i think you are forcing me to lower myself to a level i do not wish to lower myself to. and i also want to say that we are here as members of the european parliament, that we are trying to embrace the general european interest, and that in my speech i did not attack anyone. i made general remarks on the rule of law mechanism and on the sanctions which i believe should now be imposed on hungary.
madam president, the comparative burden between the treatment accorded by the european commission to countries such as hungary and poland and that accorded to spain is constantly increasing. what's been happening in the last few months confirms it. in mid-september, the commission proposed to the council that it withhold eur 7.5 billion of funds for hungary because of rule of law violations. a very necessary step. but in the meantime, in spain, the government refuses to cooperate in the investigation of the pegasus case, the supreme court ignores the judgment of the luxembourg court last july, according to which president puigdemont and i retain our immunity from travel; the supreme court ignores it and maintains our arrest warrant, etc. spain is in breach of community law and more than 60% of the judgments of the strasbourg court. but the commission says nothing. it doesn't do anything. what's the matter, man? they only dare to punish small and eastern member states? and if they're big and from the west, like spain, then these have a free bar? is that it? the commission is obliged by the treaty to act impartially and neutrally. and you are grossly failing in this duty. the institution which is supposed to be the guardian of the treaties is the first to violate them. and that is how the european project is set aflame.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i have said it here more than once: respect for the rule of law, for european values is not an option, it is an obligation. and i don't feel comfortable even being here talking about a regulation that we shouldn't even have and shouldn't even be necessary. but it is important to say that this regulation is not punitive, it is not punitive. the great objective is prevention, and we approved it in good time, and the european commission has put forward a proposal, and now, we must not forget, it is in the hands of the council. mr minister, when does the council intend to decide? does the council have a timetable? does the council have any preparatory work on this? are you convinced that you will have a qualified majority? because the council must also respect the rule of law, and the only thing that is mentioned is the commission and the pressure is on. but then we want to know how each head of state, each ruler in the council will take a stand on this important matter. and i hope hungary will comply, for the sake of its citizens and the european union. those who entered the union knew the conditions, and must continue to respect them. i would also like to ask the council, which has been so supportive of the rule of law, why it does not accept something as simple as a digital platform where all the projects approved by european funds are available to the general public. why did they refuse?
the question is a question of cards. you sent a famous message to hungary and poland that these people must be starved. it didn't sound that good in any country. i want to ask you, do you know how many countries have integrity authorities in the fight against corruption? i'll give you the number afterwards. i would also like to ask you if you know what percentage of olaf investigations in hungary lead to prosecution and what is the eu average? i'm happy to share this, because hungary has a much higher number of cases than the eu average.
madam president, the european commission had a historic chance to slow down hungary’s slide to autocracy. and the tools are there; this parliament made sure of that. you also said it in your speech, commissioner. we worked very hard for this. but frankly, we should be seeing real results by now. let me remind you, the rule of law mechanism has been eu law since january last year, almost two years – 641 days, to be precise. we should be seeing real credible steps just like my colleague katarina barley said. for hungary to join the european public prosecutor’s office, there is public support for that on the ground, we collected 700 000 signatures with the support of akos hadhazy, a member of parliament who was denied of taking his oath for many, many months by the government, by the way. so what we see now are only promises of minor reform by the orbán government – a government that has shown over and over again that they are not acting in good faith, that they create institutions just to hollow them out when it is comfortable for them and they go back on their promises in a matter of a few days. and don’t get me wrong, we are, of course, ready to support even small improvements. but to think that they will be sufficient is – i’m sorry – an illusion. so what should be done? help the people, not the government. direct eu funds to local governments, to civil society, to schools and hospitals. this parliament has made multiple calls for it. commissioner, it is time to make that happen.
commissioner hahn, you have heard what i said. the european parliament pays close attention to what the commission does. i would ask you to convey your message on behalf of the commission.
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i can confirm, also from my own experience, that this was a very lively debate, quite polarizing, but not surprising in this respect, as is also shown by the fact that comparatively many of you have been present at this debate from the beginning. that shows the importance you attach to this subject. we have already exchanged many words here, and i do not think it is necessary for me to repeat myself here. but i would like to focus on this: we now have a catalogue of measures which hungary has publicly announced that it will be working out and implementing. and of course, that is your right, and i have a certain degree of emotional understanding, but our job as a commission is to fix problems and ideally to solve them. i would like to say that the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there is a clear catalogue of work to be completed by hungary. someone said 17 compromises. i want to emphasize that there is no compromise. we have a clear idea of what is necessary. we determine: is what is being delivered wrong, or is it right? and that is our guiding principle in making an assessment on the basis of which the council has to take a decision. but i think we should not give up on this a priori and say that it's not working. because at the end of the day it must be in our great interest to improve the situation in hungary with the overwhelming agreement of this house. so, for example, it is very important for me - and i ask you to support this - that this integrity authority, if it is actually created as we imagine it, with this independence, with these possibilities, actually finds people who are willing to work in this authority, in order to actually achieve these measures and these results that we expect. so, it's going to be a challenge, too, to find enough people -- i don't want to say brave people -- who are willing to do this work. but at the end of the day we will not fail to note or accept that we are creating here or hungary is creating authorities, but which must also be composed accordingly, which also have corresponding rights, are independent etc. then i assume - and i am known to be one of those who see the glass half full and not the glass half empty - that things will change for the better. if not, we have every opportunity to take up the matter again and propose appropriate measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but let me make it clear again: the european budget and the protection of the european budget are not negotiable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so if i remember correctly, she was elected here in this parliament, and i assume that the overwhelming majority of this parliament considers that she is democratically legitimated. the election of the president of the european commission is therefore one that has the highest degree of democratic legitimacy and has followed the rules of representative democracy. only mr. fest has that in his family tree.
all the institutions are needed, parliament, the commission. minister bek, you have the final word.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you very much for this very rich debate and for all your remarks, which just show how important this topic is for the european parliament. likewise, the protection of the eu budget and the financial interest of the union, as well as the good management of the eu funds are paramount for the council. european citizens need to see that the eu money is well spent in every single member state, without exceptions. i heard your clear calls for getting the process right, and you can rest assured that the council will fulfil its role foreseen in the conditionality regulation with maximum responsibility. we rely on the commission’s objective assessment to protect the interests of the union. as i stated in my initial intervention, eu ambassadors will have the opportunity tomorrow to thoroughly discuss the commission’s proposal and all relevant elements will be taken into consideration. to respond to several of you who raised the issue of timing: yes, the council has a clear time frame. as the proposal was received by the council on 18 september, the latest day for the council to take a decision is 19 october. however, as you know, the conditionality regulation foresees that, if exceptional circumstances arise, the period for the council to adopt its decision can be extended by a maximum of two additional months. in such a case, the deadline for the council could be extended up to 19 december of this year. rest assured that the council will respect the deadlines foreseen in the regulation.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the death of mahsa amini and the repression of women's rights protesters in iran.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, excuse me, i was running from one phone call to a meeting, but here i am, sorry for being late. mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, it is important to have this opportunity to discuss today what is happening across iran after the death of a young woman. mahsa amini was arrested by the police and was killed during her arrest in the police station. let me express my condolences to the family. this is something that has to be said, although it’s not going to be very useful for them. also, let me express our admiration for the demonstrations – mainly women, and men also – across iran, protesting about her killing and the repression that they have suffered that has cost the lives of dozens of people. these are facts, they are not opinions. on the streets of iran the repression of the demonstrators has left behind tens of people killed. mahsa amini was only 22 years old. she was visiting the capital of her country. and the morality police – even the name morality police sounds bizarre to our ears – detained and mistreated her simply because of her headscarf. she ended up in hospital where she died shortly after. these are facts. following that, following her passing, or should i say her killing, we have seen a wave of indignation and outrage turning into nationwide protests in iran. iranians, and especially young iranians, have taken to the streets to express their anger, their aspirations for a better future, free from oppression. there are countless testimonies of brave women and men expressing their dissent in their cities. on social media we have seen them chanting ‘women, life, freedom’, three key words. these iranian women have been the force driving the dissent. they ask for respect, justice and equality. nothing more, nothing less. as european union representatives, we call immediately for the iranian authorities to ensure the respect of fundamental rights of iranian citizens. in a meeting in new york that president michel and i had with iranian president raisi, we raised this situation directly with him and called for accountability for the death of mahsa amini and restraint in the government’s reaction to the demonstrations. unfortunately, it did not happen. numerous reports clearly show that the response of the iranian security and police forces has been disproportionate and resulted, as we said, in dozens of lives lost. many more have been injured and detained, including several journalists covering the events. and we have to see clear indications of a credible investigation that could ensure accountability for what has happened. accountability? not at all. also, the internet has been shut down in many areas of the country. iranians in the world lost access to information of what was happening there, as well as the opportunity to use online platforms to express their dissent, which is another deliberate violation of freedom of expression in the country. i think it is important here for the european parliament to show a strong and united reaction by the european union. on my side, on behalf of the 27 member states, i publicly expressed in my declaration of 25 september the widespread and disproportionate use of force against non-violent protesters, and consider it unjustifiable and unacceptable. people in iran and anywhere else have the right to peaceful protest. it is as simple as that. and it’s clear that this right has not been ensured. together with the member states, we will continue to consider all the options at our disposal, including restrictive measures to address the killing of mahsa amini and the way the iranian security forces have responded to the demonstration. i will raise this at the next foreign affairs council with my colleagues. and when i say ‘restrictive measures’, i am using the wording of the treaty, because in the treaty you will not find the word ‘sanctions’. the only thing you will find in the treaty is ‘restrictive measures’, and that is what i am talking about.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, mr high representative/vice president, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, the massive protests that erupted following the death of mahsa amini in police custody have spread to 171 cities in all 31 provinces of iran. the people are protesting against a deeply corrupt and violent regime that systematically oppresses women and responds to political resistance with brutal violence and repression. the violent crackdown of the mullahs security forces on peaceful protesters must stop immediately. the council ought to impose tough sanctions responding to serious human rights violations as soon as possible. call them restrictive measures, call them tough sanctions – the main thing is they will be adopted; sooner, the better. the regime in tehran has manoeuvred itself into a dead end. as our president roberta metsola stated yesterday here in the plenary, we as the european parliament stand in solidarity with the brave women and men and all their democratic aspirations in their fight for women’s, human and minority rights, for the free flow of information and access to internet, and for a free, secular and democratic republic.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr high representative, in the 21st century, there is a police force in iran which is responsible for ensuring that women's dress and behaviour standards are respected. and that policeman approaches and arrests a young woman because, according to them, she was showing more hair than she should under the veil. and that young woman is not coming out of the police station alive. incredible, but true. it sounds like a nightmare, but it is the reality that women in iran live every day, that they are treated as second-class beings, objects owned by a man her father, her brother or her husband. if a man kills his daughter, he'll only be sentenced to a few years, because there's no law protecting women. but if a woman kills the man who raped her, for example, she's hanged the next day. the iranian regime exercises a brutal repression against the opposition and women are, by definition, the first opponents, because the authorities tried from the very beginning to reduce them to nothing. but they fought from the beginning and, although they have achieved small victories, they are not enough. mahsa amini's death has lit a fuse that could blow up a dark regime anchored in the middle ages, drowned by economic sanctions, against which more and more iranians are raising their voices and taking to the streets to protest, risking their lives. as confirmed by the united nations, there have been many deaths in these protests that may not have been admitted by iranian forces. the renegotiation of the nuclear agreement with iran which is currently under way and the special situation of this country in the midst of a global energy crisis cannot make us look the other way and not see what is happening in iran. europe has to respond and support the women, who are leading these protests. women, life and freedom. iranian sisters, we are with you.
on behalf of the renew group. mr. president, mahsa jina amini was beaten up in detention, beaten during her transfer, beaten to death in police stations. unfortunately, his murder is not accidental or exceptional. it is part of a state policy directed against women's rights. so today amini stands in the courage and the courage of thousands of women who have taken to the streets to rise up against a regime that for forty-three years has wanted to subject them to exploitation, oppression and exclusion. iranian society has taken to the streets in support of women, but, mr. high representative, you are still there, in the streets, crying out for freedom, in the face of a repressive, dictatorial and theocratic regime. they're calling for real change. they're calling for a democratic regime. violence in suppressing protests is not new. impunity in iran is not either. we have seen it in the protests of 2019, 2021 and in april of this year. the european union sanctioned, as early as 2019, hossein salami, then in charge of the revolutionary guards corps, today, its head, member of the national security council, responsible for organizing the repression of protests with lethal fire. that is why, mr high representative, we need to renew the sanctions, update the sanctions, extend the sanctions. this is the way to stand with the people of iran and to reclaim the names of so many women who died for their freedom.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, mr high representative, the shocking events unfolding in iran have reached an unprecedented magnitude in the past week. from here, i want to send all my support to the women and protesters who have taken to the streets in recent days in defense of their rights. at least seventy-six people have died as protests continue in iran over the death of mahsa amini, who was beaten and tortured while in police custody. it has been more than two weeks since his death and the iranian authorities have not taken any responsibility for these events. we therefore call on the iranian authorities to allow a thorough, independent and swift investigation into his death and to stop the violence against peaceful protesters and human rights defenders. amini is yet another victim of the sustained repression and systematic discrimination against women and the imposition of discriminatory dress codes. for the past four decades, iranian women have continued to peacefully protest against the compulsory hijab rules and violations of their fundamental rights; today we want to express our solidarity with all of them and with the peaceful protests. these protests, which have now become a movement, express deep discontent. yes, a deep discontent of iranian women and men against a government that applies systematic oppression to all dissidents. we therefore call on the european union and its member states to use all channels at their disposal with the iranian authorities to end the violent repression of protests and to call for the abolition of all laws and practices that deprive women of their autonomy and rights. respect for human rights must be a central component in the development of relations between the european union and iran. we will not stop until the rights of iranian women are respected. we want to send a very clear message from here: we're not going to leave you alone.
mr garraud, i have to say that i am very pleased. i must tell you that what you have done in your statement is not in accordance with the rules of procedure. i ask you to respect the rules of procedure during your speech. (applause from the centre)
mr president, we condemn the brutal murder of mahsa amini by the iranian state and the brutal repression it has unleashed against mass popular mobilizations. amini's murder, the dozens of dead, wounded and countless arrests bring to the surface the orgy of state violence, the economic, social, religious discriminations that reproduce women's inequality, the obscurantist, anachronistic notions and practices. but there is also the hypocrisy of the european union, the united states and nato, with their all-out sensitivity to iranian women, while supporting regimes in other countries that engage in the same abhorrent practices against women. their aim is to manipulate the popular mobilizations and turn them into a tool in the intensifying capitalist rivalries, which are escalating at the same time in the imperialist war in ukraine. the anger at such heinous crimes should become a relentless struggle against reactionary backwardness and the rotten ideas that foster it, against capitalist exploitation and oppression, for women's equality and the emancipation of peoples.
mr president, dear colleagues, dear high representative, please allow me to start my remarks with a message addressed not to this chamber, but to the women of iran. your courage is breathtaking. as you rise up against injustice, as you dare to defy the oppressive regime, you inspire to fight for women’s rights everywhere. and as you honour the memory of mahsa amini, who was brutally murdered, you are teaching the world a lesson in solidarity, so that no women is harassed or killed because of a bigoted dress code ever again. we salute and admire your bravery. and colleagues, our support cannot be limited only to words. european diplomacy needs to swing into action now. we need targeted personal sanctions, travel bans, asset freezes against members of the iranian regime, and also including careful and strict implementation of every single existing sanction. and we also need to help those whose lives are in danger by issuing humanitarian visas. the people of iran who take the streets, the women who remove or burn their headscarves, they are risking their lives doing so. they deserve help from the european union and the international community as a whole. let us show them that we are on their side.
mr president, dear colleagues, the war in the ukraine has triggered exemplary european unity but it has also shown that europe is powerless, which is quite remarkable if we consider the aggregate size of our national armies, the aggregate volume of our national defence budgets and the abundance of weapons systems and capacities within the eu. but now it should be clear to all of us that sanctions are essential to limit russian aggression, but they are certainly not sufficient to win a war. the past weeks have shown how dangerous external dependence on energy can become. it is high time to realise the risks inherent in the eternal dependence on the us to guarantee european security. with trump’s four years in office and the dreadful prospect of his return for a second term should be alarming for all of us. so my question to you, mr šefčovič, as the last representative of the commission in this room today: what are the commission’s plans and proposals for the protection of european citizens from an escalating conflict?
mr. chairman, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the destabilization of democratic processes through disinformation is a serious battleground. in preparing for military aggression, russia engaged in propaganda and media terms to portray ukraine as a state in which nazis are in power and threaten the russian minority. although the ukrainian people, in free elections, have several times clearly chosen the path of euro-atlantic integration, russian propaganda has tried to portray not only the power in kiev as a coup d'état and therefore illegitimate, but has gone so far as to accuse an entire nation of attempting genocide. these lies, which have been heard from the stage of the world's largest forum, the united nations general assembly, have been trying for years to be placed in the european media and, unfortunately, in the academic world, although it is clear that first of all it is a preparation for aggression and then a justification for an illegal and uncalled-for military invasion of a neighboring sovereign state. the accusation of the european union and the north atlantic alliance that by their political acceptance into membership of all those who share the same values they have endangered the very existence of the russian federation and that by their behavior they have provoked the kremlin to military intervention can be heard in some media, in the political space and in election campaigns and even during protests in some member states due to the seriously disturbed economic situation, which is precisely the result of the devastating actions of the russian political leadership, and not the response from the states and institutions of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, minister, colleagues, let me start with a quote from the hungarian public broadcaster: ‘the united states trains the pro—russian government in ukraine to a pro—american regime, reprogramming ukrainian politics, driving it further away from russia, which resulted in the current situation.’ so this is how the hungarian state media explains geopolitics to its viewers in the centre of the european union, funded by the tax money of european union citizens. ukrainians are repeatedly being compared to nazi germany, their right to exist is repeatedly called into question and putin’s war crimes are regularly whitewashed as self-defence. this is so prevalent in the hungarian state—sponsored media that the russian channels often even quote them directly to justify their own position. the results are staggering. three per cent of hungarian government sympathisers believe that russia is responsible for beginning the war. three per cent, colleagues – think about it. we have to have the tools to fight this. the east stratcom task force has to adapt to debunk russian propaganda, even when it is coming from a member state. not every country is a benevolent actor. putin’s mouthpieces have no business spreading lies as a full—time job in our union.
in writing. we are shocked that the maltese authorities have been slow and ineffective in investigating the murder of investigative journalist daphne caruana galizia. the murder of a journalist is not only a brutal murder, but it is the most brutal attack on freedom of the press and the rule of law itself. it is crucial that the authorities always act with due force against the perpetrators of such crimes and ensure the full exercise of the freedoms. it is not surprising that in malta, democratic sentiment is upset by the procrastination of the leftist forces! we find it strange and we consider it a double standard that when a left-wing government is in power in a country, the european parliament is reluctant to speak out in defence of the rule of law, under pressure from right-wing political parties. in contrast, the leftist forces in the european parliament go on the offensive whenever a right-wing government is in power in a country. in this case, alleged and unfounded accusations are levelled against certain member states, as has been the case for many years in poland and hungary. authenticity is a serious value. but when an organization adopts double standards, credibility is lost.
in writing. finally, parliament is debating a subject that touches people's lives, namely the crisis caused by the war and its economic consequences. because of the failed sanctions policy of brussels, people, families, businesses are now facing significantly higher prices, recessionary bills, all without asking. we cannot allow the citizens, families, businesses to pay the price for the wrong decisions of brussels, we cannot allow the energy supply of hungary to be endangered! we need to correct brussels' flawed sanctions policy. with prices soaring, it would help if brussels radically changed its bad sanctions policy. this requires a solution that has broad social support. therefore, the hungarian government is the first in europe to reach out to citizens through national consultation. only then can we be strong, only then can we act decisively and put an end to the misguided policy of sanctions. until there is peace, the private consumer must be protected. we need to protect families, we need to protect businesses!
mr president ! the war-weary nations of the world are starting the cop27 climate conference with moderate goals. the reason for the retreat is the energy crisis and the misguided sanctions. all of these have increased and will continue to increase energy prices both at european and global levels. i believe that this climate summit could be an opportunity for us to reassess and rethink the impact of our actions. if things stay the same, the eu economy will collapse. my fellow members of parliament! we can't be irresponsible in a situation like this. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. we cannot allow our citizens and businesses to be left completely vulnerable to high prices because of the wrong decisions taken by the eu. let's work together for a green environment, but only with people, not against people.
mr president, a few days after the war broke out, i went to the hungarian—ukrainian border. it was absolutely heart-breaking to see the families – the small children and the women – who needed to pack up their lives and leave their homes because of putin’s criminal war. however, as we know, the darkest times often inspire a kind of fact. people showed up to cook warm food. local governments set up hotlines and temporary shelters. they housed the refugees in schools and public buildings. small town mayors suddenly became international humanitarians. we saw the same things at the polish border and all across the eu. we rely on these communities, on our local governments and on civil society organisations. they are the face europe shows in this crisis, and it is a beautiful face. however, right now they also need europe’s help, because in some member states, the government sadly does not look at them as partners. on the contrary, many are on the brink of bankruptcy because of the rising energy costs, so it’s time to give them more direct support. i was happy to hear about the increasing rate of direct funds, but we need to do more. we need to be there for them. they are there for us and they need our help. they are on the front lines. we need them more than ever.
madam president, colleagues, ms von der leyen was right to stress the importance of unity and solidarity. but, as she probably realises, there are some saboteurs amongst our ranks that support sanctions in brussels, but rail against them in their home country, undermining the credibility of our alliance. while sanctions work and we are right to adopt each package so far, until this war ends eu leaders should explore new ways to limit russia’s ability to wage war, build its weapons arsenal, especially its high-tech military capabilities. this is the only way this war will end. those proposals that target ordinary russian citizens like a visa ban, are misguided and counterproductive. but sanctions that limit russia’s access to military technology will bring us closer to ending this war. in this respect, the eu should consider sanctioning each and every country that acquires russian military technology or cooperates on military technology with russian companies. it’s time to make it clear for iran, china and india that their involvement in helping russia circumvent western sanctions is a red line.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is democracy? democracy is the vote of the people. in sweden, 82% of swedish citizens voted in september. they chose freely, without coercion, without violence, they went to the polling booth and cast their vote. the same thing happened in italy on september 25. 64% of italians went to the polling booth and made their choice, reasonably, consciously. this is democracy: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have to be rational in judging governments and we have to judge governments by what they do, by what they will do. i've heard, i have to tell the truth, a lot of nonsense about my country, about italy. we are clear, very clear, on our foreign policy line. we were the first to condemn the invasion of ukraine and our line will not change at all with the new government, just as it did not change with the previous governments. we must be aware that the acts which hurt are those which perhaps took place here today in this parliament, when a correct amendment which attempted to restore the proper education of palestinian children was rejected and was not put to the vote. these are the acts that hurt: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today.
mr president, let me give you an example that clearly shows not only how anti-eu disinformation is being spread by far right forces in the eu, but also how passivity from the european institutions is playing a part in the problem. as with many of you right now, there are mass protests in hungary because people have had enough of the government defunding public education to the brink of collapse. the answer to this from government propaganda is very clear: brussels is to blame for all this. viktor orban said with his own words that it’s because of the european union that there are no wage increases for teachers. the reason why a hungarian teacher earns eur 700 is you, colleagues, not the prime minister who has been governing for 12 years with a super—majority. well, no surprises here, right? my question to you, colleagues, why wasn’t there a single commission official who bothered to refute these blatant lies. these are the same lies as are spread about the ukraine war and just about every major policy field in the eu. did they not learn the lesson from brexit, another far right anti-eu campaign that was sold on lies? it could work because these lies were met with deafening silence from the eu side. anti—eu disinformation is corroding our union from within, so it’s time for the commission to do something about it.
mr. president, i have to ask you... when we talk about the far right, we usually have very important ideological debates about democracy, xenophobia, racism, authoritarianism. let me shed some light on the far right, the illiberalism, from another angle, because for 12 years, hungary has been ruled by the far right, the illiberal orbán. and look what he's done in 12 years. healthcare is in ruins, teachers, students, parents, tens of thousands of people are on the streets protesting the collapse of education. our social standing has never been worse. inflation is sky high, and the forint has never been so weak, it's at historic lows. when the extreme right, illiberalism, comes to power, it can't protect the people, it can't deliver. that's why he's doing one thing, because he's good at one thing: inciting hatred. it's their policy, and it's our job to defeat the far right so that we can give people a decent and free life. that's what i'm fighting for.
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. some remarks on the remarks: it is true that this year over 97% or 97% of the budget was found to be clean. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. and above all towards the audience it is also important to remember that one must very well distinguish between error error and fraud fraud . and here it's clear that when we talk about the error rate, we're talking about a high degree of error, of false assumptions, of what's promising, and only to a very small degree of fraud. but i also say, there is zero tolerance here. if anything is discovered, both as regards the error itself, it should be corrected, and if it is an obvious fraud, it should be investigated without question. but since we are talking about error rates, i can only agree with mrs winzig and others who have said: it is not easy for small and mediumsized enterprises in particular to take advantage of the subsidies because of the - we have to admit this - multiple complexities of the support structures. and so i think our common appeal to ourselves, which we must also implement, is to avoid complication wherever possible and to ensure simplification. to mr. friend: no one is refusing anything. but your example with poland only shows how important it is to have a range of measures in the various areas of the rule of law. and where to take action ultimately depends on the causes, on the circumstances. and so it was only natural that this measure should be taken here in the area of cohesion. the last point, again, if we are going to deal with the analysis: i'll be honest with you, the error rate is an important indicator for me. but even more important are the analyses of the court of auditors. if you identify weaknesses in the area of audit at regional or national level, it is important that we tackle them together and really try to achieve specific improvements here, so to speak, because then the reduction in the error rate will come naturally. this means that the focus must be on identifying systemic deficiencies and then trying to make improvements where appropriate. i would like to thank you again for the debate, but above all for the good cooperation between the court, parliament and the commission.
thank you, commissioner. now tony murphy has the final word. i would like to join in the congratulations and wish you that the enthusiasm shown for you across the various political groups in this house will continue into next year.
president of the court of auditors. – madam president. firstly, i would like to thank everybody for your best wishes in my new role, and for the future success of our institution. i very much appreciate it. from the contributions, it’s obvious that the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) is an item of concern for many of you. as i said in my introductory speech, it’s a particular challenge and one which is highly topical at the moment and will continue to be a challenge for us all going forward. i would like to just reemphasise that what we say in our opinion is that the assessment of the commission, namely that the reforms in spain have been met and the payment can be made legally and regularly on that basis, is the limit of the opinion. we are not saying that eu national financial rules are respected. in this case, however, because there’s no investment – it’s reforms in any case – so it’s very difficult for us to audit anything in that regard, because there are no associated costs. i would look at the rrf in terms of being a work in progress, particularly in terms of how the protection of the financial interests of the eu will be protected. i also see some need for a clarification in the responsibility and roles of the different players, due to the novelty of this delivery mechanism. there’s also a need for us all – both us and the commission – to ascertain, on that basis, if there are any accountability gaps. the second issue that was mentioned most frequently was the error rate. the commissioner has said that the error rate is just a snapshot, in a way. it’s just at a particular point in time. nonetheless, it’s consistently around 2.5—3%. these are errors that are repeatedly happening. the commissioner mentioned the control systems in the member states. if we look at the cohesion chapter, we see that, in the work of the other authorities there, we find a lot of errors that have not been detected by the authorities. therefore, we can’t rely on the work that the other authorities complete in terms of relying on the error rate. the problem for us is that this error rate, which is reported by the other authorities, is subsequently used by the commission for their error rates. this might explain to mr lenaers from earlier why there is a difference between the commission’s error rate and our rate. it is because we still maintain that those reported from national authorities are underestimated and are then subsequently incorporated into the commission’s error rate. however, it’s also important to note that the 3% increase is probably in line with the trends normally towards the end of a programming period. also, the fact that we have a higher proportion of high-risk expenditure – as someone mentioned that the error rate for high risk expenses is 4.7% – obviously has an impact on the overall error rate going up from 2.7 to 3%. someone, madam winzig, also mentioned in that context simplification. as a court, we have consistently promoting the use of simplified cost options. some member states have used them more than others, but we are constantly behind that, because we see that as a way of avoiding complex cost reimbursements, which –we acknowledge all the time – contribute to errors systematically. mr kuhs also referred to the adverse opinion. the adverse opinion is because of the pervasive nature of these errors. there are over 63% of our other population has an error rate of 4.7%, and that is why we are well above the 2% materiality threshold. i think mr van overtveldt also mentioned something about these new instruments, and it’s very important that we do look at flexibility of new instruments, but in a way that mitigates risk to an acceptable level and ensures accountability. mr chastel also mentioned data mining, which obviously from our perspective will be very beneficial and lead to efficiency gains. however, it obviously depends on the availability of data in the auditees, including the commission. in terms of climate objectives, it was mentioned that maybe we should report more often than at the end of the seven-year period. we have a number of audits in the climate sphere, which are carried out by mainly by our chamber one. one is actually due to be published next year on climate targets specifically, and obviously part of our effort is also green tagging. a specific percentage of expenditure is supposed to be green, which obviously will be subject to audit. finally, i would just like to take this opportunity to thank the staff of the european court of auditors for still, despite the difficult working conditions pre— and post—pandemic, delivering more or less the full work programme at a very high quality, despite all the challenges that we have encountered. lastly, i would just like to welcome mr christoforou to the court. he starts with us on the 1 november 2022, and we look forward to engagement in a different capacity. thank you very much.
thank you very much and good luck with your work at the court of auditors. i would like to thank all those who took part in this debate. the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on relations between the eu and the countries of the western balkans in the context of the new enlargement package (2022/2881 ((rsp)). before i give the floor to mr olivér várhelyi on behalf of the commission, i would ask all members who are going to speak to respect the time limit.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of this house, the last year has been challenging but the eu has always stood with its western balkan partners. since the start of the pandemic, the eu has supported the western balkans in the covid-19 fight. we provided immediate emergency support, including equipment, and redirected funds to mitigate the socioeconomic impact of the covid-19 crisis. the eu delivered the first vaccines to the region. second, our economic and investment plan for the western balkans is our response to supporting the long—term socioeconomic recovery of the region. the plan comes with eur 9 billion funding from the epa, and a possibility to leverage eur 20 billion in investments. and this is for the next six years. part of this funding is already well underway. in the last two years, we have adopted eur 1.2 billion in investment grants under the western balkans investment framework, with a view to financing 24 flagship projects with a total investment value of eur 3.4 billion. third, the current energy crisis is a challenge for the western balkans as well as for the eu. therefore, the eu involves the region in its policies and in its actions. the eu has invited the western balkans to join the common eu energy purchases for joint purchasing of gas, lng and hydrogen. serbia and north macedonia have joined the first regional group meeting of the south east europe regional task force. the repowereu plan will help to reduce the eu’s and the western balkans’ dependence on russian gas. however, we need to reduce further the eu’s and the western balkans’ dependence on russian gas as a matter of urgency. that’s why we’re working on an energy rescue scheme for the entire western balkans. the funds we propose will address immediate, short—term and mid—term needs faced by the region. the immediate measures will include budget support to cushion energy price increases and their impact in particular on businesses, households and smes. these measures aim to tackle the energy crisis still this winter. short—term measures will support diversification of energy supplies, will boost gas and electricity interconnectors, new storage facilities and lng terminals. we’ll also deploy smaller renewable energy projects and energy efficiency measures. mid—term assistance will include other investments contributing to the energy transition and security. these measures will cover large—scale renewable energy generation projects, upgrade of electricity transmission systems, district heating and schemes for energy efficiency for the old blocks of flats. further, migration remains an area where we need to work even more closely with our western balkan partners. this is even more urgent given the increased migratory pressure experienced in the region over the past year. it must be clear that the eu only welcomes people through safe and legal routes while the door is not open for irregular entry. it must be clear that those who are not eligible and who do not qualify to stay will be returned without delay. it must be clear that we would protect the integrity of our asylum system. we will crack down on smuggler activities and criminal undertakings associated with it. this narrative requires a shift in our policy and the rebalancing of our assistance, including to respond to the emerging needs and challenges in the region. we will not leave the western balkans alone. we will deliver on our part both politically and financially. we intend to significantly, by 60%, increase our funding to address migration challenges in the western balkans during the period of 2021–2024, meaning more than eur 350 million. now, let me give you a short overview about this year’s developments in the region, as there was new dynamism in our relationship with the western balkans. the eu held the first intergovernmental conferences with albania and north macedonia in july. this was a major breakthrough, opening a new chapter in the eu enlargement policy. the commission started immediately the screening as the first step of the negotiation process. both albania and north macedonia need to keep up the speed and make use of the screening process to explore the full potential to accelerate the implementation of eu reforms. last week, the commission recommended the candidate status be granted to bosnia and herzegovina by the council on the understanding that a number of steps are taken. granting candidate status is an offer; we’re doing this for the people of bosnia and herzegovina. but it also comes with high expectations. it is for the elite to turn this into reality. following general elections on 2 october, we expect the legislators and the governments at state, entity and cantonal levels to be swiftly set up in order to focus on eu reforms. it will be for the european council to take the final decisions, possibly in december. the commission stands ready to step up its support and to be a reliable partner along this road. the commission also continues to monitor and report on the implementation of the 14 key priorities based on progress on the ground. for montenegro, the priority for further overall progress in the accession negotiations remains the fulfilment of the rule of law interim benchmarks set out on the chapter 23 and 24. in order to reach this milestone, montenegro needs to intensify its efforts in tackling outstanding issues, including the critical areas of freedom of expression and media freedom, and fight against corruption and organised crime. serbia has made progress in the rule of law, in particular in the reform of the judiciary and in fighting corruption. therefore, the overall balance in the accession negotiations is ensured. the eu is serbia’s most important political and economic partner, and we want to help serbia address its challenges, including in the area of energy security. at the same time, we need to count on serbia as a sincere european partner, standing with us for our common values, security and prosperity. in the current geopolitical context, it is also clear that serbia needs to step up its efforts in aligning with the eu positions on foreign policy, including declarations and sanctions against russia. since the beginning of the war in ukraine, alignment of cfsp is more important than ever. we need our western balkan partners, who are otherwise our strategic allies, to come along with us on this. kosovo enjoyed political stability throughout the year, and the authorities continue to demonstrate their commitment to the eu path. on visa liberalisation, the commission stands by its assessment of 2018 that kosovo has fulfilled all the benchmarks. the proposal is still pending in the council and we support the renewed discussions by a technical update of our assessment. both belgrade and pristina need to engage constructively in the dialogue process. with this, i thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner várhelyi, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, russia’s war of aggression against ukraine has forced us to rethink our commitments and policies, including on enlargement. with ukraine and moldova having been granted candidate status and georgia having been granted a european perspective, there are now ten countries in total that have embarked upon a path towards the european union. last wednesday, we debated the 2022 enlargement package immediately after its adoption in an extraordinary meeting of the foreign affairs committee, together with our commissioner, olivér várhelyi. if i remember correctly, we more or less conveyed three messages. first, we highlighted the need to advance the eu enlargement policy as the single most effective instrument for securing peace, prosperity and fundamental values on the european continent. second, we reiterated our strong support for the european perspective of the countries of the western balkans and underlined that the european union needs to deliver on the obligations towards these countries. and, third, we emphasised that each enlargement country should be judged by its own and on its own merits. the enlargement process needs to remain firmly based on the fulfilment of all relevant criteria, with a strong focus on strengthening democracy, the rule of law, as well as on close cooperation on foreign policy matters. commissioner várhelyi, the foreign affairs committee will continue to scrutinise the enlargement policy closely and we will now stock our work on the individual country reports.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, mr commissioner, enlargement policy is not only about political and economic unity – it is founded in our values too. following the common foreign policy might not be defined as key criteria, but it becomes today as one of the critical indicators of the commitment of the candidate countries. it cannot be dismissed or treated as a side issue that will gradually be aligned. our position is clear. serbian negotiations can only advance when the sanctions are fully adopted. in montenegro, persistent political instability affects their front—runner status. on bih, the new recommendations with the same complex conditions will hopefully bring the country closer to the candidacy status, but we remain cautious. albania and macedonia deserve a fast track to compensate for the time lost, and any delay in visa liberalisation for kosovo is detrimental to our role and perception. we need to build back our credibility by acknowledging the progress and by not ignoring the backsliding when it is obvious.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, allow me to jump right into the middle. so the key word is ‘credibility’. what the commission needs to show in the western balkans is the credibility of the accession process. and why is it so important? because we know that we are talking about a geopolitical buffer zone. and russia and china understand the strategic importance of the western balkans just as well as we do, only that it is right on our doorstep. and the palpable influence of russia and china is felt throughout the whole region. but beijing and moscow’s geopolitical opportunity is our geopolitical risk. in 2022, when russia is invading ukraine, when china is eyeing taiwan, it is really that simple. but neither putin nor xi are credible partners. their alliances are driven by corruption, opportunism and dominance. we have seen this in montenegro, bosnia and in other countries across the region. so if you are serious about enlargement, which we should be, we need to highlight the contrast that makes us the only viable ally in the western balkans region. we need to show our best face, a europe that delivers peace, prosperity, robust rule of law an anti-corruption framework and also a strong alliance that is able to protect its members from existential external threats. and also, we have to stick to a clear enlargement agenda without delays, without empty promises, without doublespeak that alienates our partners. because, colleagues, this is a question of strategic interests, and we only have one shot to get it right. so let’s not waste it.
that concludes this item.
the minutes of this meeting shall be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next meeting. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at today's sitting to the persons and bodies named in them.
the next meeting will take place in brussels on 9 and 10 november 2022.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 20 october 2022.
today is 9 november, a date that will always be symbolic in europe’s history. eighty-four years ago europe lived through one of its darkest moments, but on the same day 51 years later, in 1989, we experienced one of the brightest moments in our recent history. this week i visited auschwitz-birkenau, a quiet part of the world which provided the setting for the worst crimes that man has even seen. eighty-four years have passed since kristallnacht, but despite decades of effort we have not yet done enough to end the scapegoating, to end the discrimination. we have not yet done enough to make every citizen in europe unafraid to be themselves. and today let me reiterate our commitment to fight hate, to teach tolerance and respect, to combat anti—semitism and to always remember. the hallmark of our european union has been the bravery, the political courage of women and men who put division aside and fought for unity, for freedom. that is what we saw 33 years ago with the fall of the wall in berlin. it meant hope; it meant liberty; it gave a chance to 150 million people to live in democracy; and fundamentally it contributed to reconciliation and unity in europe. dear colleagues, we must never go back to a divided continent. our europe is one where we live together united, a europe of peace, a europe of hope and a europe where we pull down walls. i would also like once again to raise the issue of the situation in iran. the situation in iran has deteriorated even further. the people in the streets of iran need our support. they deserve our support. women, students, intellectuals and so many others risk their lives in tehran and other cities in their fight for basic human rights. the iranian regime shows no mercy towards the protesters and now calls have begun for imprisoned women to be sentenced to death. this is why i have urged the high representative in a letter sent yesterday to take a firm stance against these despicable actions. this house has made it very clear we need an international investigation to keep the oppressive regime accountable for its ongoing human rights violations. it is now time to impose further targeted sanctions. there can be no business as usual with the iranian regime.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sitting of 20 october 2022 are available. can i ask whether there are any comments? as that does not seem to be the case the minutes are approved.
the competent authorities in italy have notified me of the election of lara comi, maria angela danzì, elisabetta de blasis, matteo gazzini, paola ghidoni, alessandra mussolini, domenico denis nesci and achille variati to the european parliament replacing silvio berlusconi, eleonora evi, andrea caroppo, marco dreosto, mara bizzotto, antonio tajani, raffaele fitto and carlo calenda respectively with effect from 2 november 2022. the competent authorities of cyprus have also notified me of the election of eleni stavrou to the european parliament replacing lefteris christoforou with effect from 2 november 2022. i wish to welcome our new colleagues and recall that they take their seats in parliament and its bodies in full enjoyment of their rights pending the verification of their credentials.
i would like to inform you that marcel de graaff is no longer a member of the id group and sits with the non-attached members as of 24 october 2022. giuseppe ferrandino is no longer a member of the s&d group and joins the renew europe group as of 9 november 2022.
the ppe, s&d, renew europe, verts/ale, id and ecr groups have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
the tran and libe committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the reports, which constitute the mandates for the negotiations, are available on the plenary webpage and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, thursday 10 november at midnight, that the decisions to enter into negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament on the decisions to enter into negotiations is made within the aforementioned deadline, the committees may start the negotiations.
i should also like to inform you that, together with the president of the council, i shall today sign one act adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules of procedure. the title of the act will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 19 october pursuant to rule 157 has been distributed. with the agreement of the political groups i wish to put to the house the following proposals for changes to the final draft agenda for today. a commission statement on its communication entitled ‘ensuring availability and affordability of fertilizers’ is added as the third item in the afternoon after the debate on the report on repower eu chapters in recovery and resilience plans. as a consequence, the sitting today is extended until 23.00. on thursday, tomorrow, the following reports on the appointment of the chair of the single resolution board and the appointment of a member of the single resolution board are added directly to the votes. if there are no objections – and i see none – these changes are approved. we now move to changes requested by political groups.
madam president, i would like to remind you that this sunday marks the 20th anniversary of the tragedy of the prestige oil tanker which sank off the galician coast. the black tide produced by the breaking of the hull and the negligent management of the government produced a catastrophe with environmental, economic and social damage. the european parliament has spoken out, calling for a strengthening of maritime safety in the temporary committee that has been set up here. i remember this tragic event for europe.
thank you, ms miranda. i have received a request from the left group for a commission statement on the outcome of the modernisation of the energy charter treaty to be added as a second item this afternoon. the debate would be wound up with a resolution to be voted on in november ii. i give the floor to ms aubry to move the request on behalf of the left group.
thank you, ms aubry. i have received an alternative proposal from the s&d and renew groups. i give the floor to inma rodríguez—piñero to move the request on behalf of both groups.
madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the left group for its proposal. however, given that this is a mini-plenary with a full agenda of items to be discussed and that it has also been proposed to include new items on the agenda, what my group proposes is a debate by the rapporteurs of the political groups, followed by a resolution at the november part-session ii, that is to say, instead of a full debate, a smaller debate with the rapporteurs of the political groups.
thank you, inma. i give the floor to christophe hansen to speak against.
madam president, indeed, this whole modernisation process has been launched in 2018 on a mandate by the european council. so a lot of member states now putting that in question have indeed mandated the commission. and now, as the commission has delivered, i’m a little bit surprised that many want to drop out. i think it’s important that we state clearly the modernisation is going to help us to get the sunset clause down from 20 to 10 years. this would be very important. we could eventually support the request by renew and s&d to have a debate only with one speaker per group and then have the resolution for december, because we know that the contracting parties are going to decide on 22 november, which would then just give us one day to discuss this very important matter. i think we should let quality prevail over speed, and that is why we could agree with part of the s&d and renew proposal, but have the debate only in december. that would be the best way forward.
thank you, christophe. ms aubry, would you agree to the request by the s&d and renew groups so we can vote on at least having this debate, which would be wound up with a resolution, the timing of which we will then discuss at the conference of presidents? i’ll put this to a vote by roll call. (parliament agreed to the request)therefore we will have a commission statement on the outcome of the modernisation of the energy charter treaty. as a second point this afternoon, the statement will be followed by a round of political group speakers and it will be wound up with a resolution later on. let’s now move to another request, also for today. the verts/ale group has asked that the commission a statement on the eu response to the increasing crackdown on protests in iran be added as a third item this afternoon. the statement would then be followed by a round of political group speakers. i give the floor to hannah neumann to move the request on behalf of the verts/ale group.
would anyone like to speak against this request?
madam president, originally in the epp we had a discussion and thought it would make more sense to have the high representative present in a debate, and we therefore suggested that we have the debate in two weeks’ time. but given the urgency and the urgent developments that we have seen – hannah neumann referred to the vote in the majlis and the fact that most of those arrested are even facing the death penalty – i think we should have this debate now. we cannot construct now, from today to tomorrow, a resolution, but as the president has already made an introductory statement, perhaps she could, on behalf of all of us, make another statement focusing both on the fate of those arrested – facing the death penalty – and also calling on the council to think of sanctions. so we would agree to have this debate and see that we get something official from the house at short notice.
thank you, michael. i see mr séjourné wants to take the floor.
thank you very much, mr séjourné. so that’s clear. i see a majority, but we will vote. who is in favour of having the debate in this session? (parliament agreed to the proposal)unanimity, i would say. ok, we will add it to the agenda. thank you all. we move to thursday. the verts/ale group has asked that the commission statement on the state of play in the negotiations between the commission and the hungarian government linked to the conditionality regulation and the rrp be added as the first item tomorrow morning. as a consequence, the sitting would start at 8.30 and the statement would be followed by a round of political group speakers and then wound up with a resolution to be voted in november ii. i give the floor to terry reintke to move the request on behalf of the verts/ale group.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, colleagues, as you all know, the conditionality regulation has been activated by the european commission for the first time in the case of hungary. and also we have seen, in the recent weeks and days, movement on the negotiations on the rrp regarding hungary. we believe that the european parliament has to make its voice heard in these discussions and we are aware that there is a counter-proposal to move this to november ii. i just want to give you the argument why we believe it’s important to have a first round of speakers already tomorrow, because if we want to influence the ongoing negotiations before decisions are going to be taken, we should have a debate – at least a short debate – already tomorrow. and this obviously can then also be rounded up by a debate and a resolution in november ii. so please vote in favour also of having a short discussion about this tomorrow.
thank you very much, terry. i give the floor to ms gardiazabal rubial to speak against.
madam president, we absolutely share the need for this parliament to speak once more, because i think we have spoken many times about what we think is happening in hungary and how the conditionality mechanism should be applied. in fact, in october, also in strasbourg, we took a position as parliament on the commission proposal sent to the council and on what we thought hungary was doing with the conditionality mechanism. we are not going to be able to have the full debate that we think this item deserves, simply by having one speaker per group, because we attach so much importance to it, and therefore, as we are in a mini-plenary and do not have that much time, we think it is much better to move it to the november part-session and have the full package: full debate plus the resolution. that's our counterproposal.
thank you very much, eider. i’ll put the request of the verts/ale group to a vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the request)the agenda therefore remains unchanged. the agenda is adopted and the order of business is thus established.
the next item is the debate on the european council and commission statements on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 20 and 21 october 2022 (2022/2848(rsp)).
president of the european council. madam president of the european parliament, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by reminding you that the duty of memory is a constant requirement, and i would like to thank you for speaking for europe on this memorable day. dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, our last european council meeting was a pivotal one because our decisions are awaited. they are awaited by citizens and families facing astronomical gas and electricity bills. awaited by businesses large and small, hit by unsustainable energy costs and inflationary pressure, and awaited by many european governments worried about their shrinking budgetary margins. and despite initial differing views, we overcame these differences and we agreed on a plan that covers the different paths of action. the european council had on many occasions asked the commission to make concrete proposals in three areas: to curb energy prices, to ensure security of supply and to reduce demand. and several proposals were put on the table some time ago and another package was tabled shortly before our meeting of the european council. at our european council meeting we set out an action plan with a framework of nine concrete measures and asked the commission to urgently put concrete legislative proposals on the table. the war in ukraine and the energy crisis have directly impacted our economies and our citizens. it's time to act. kicking the can further down the road is no longer an option. ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, when we join forces and buy together, we boost our bargaining power and we can get a better deal. now it's also time to put our joint gas purchasing into action. this will be voluntary, except for volumes corresponding to 15% of the necessary stores. we should be subject to mandatory joint tenders. finally, it is vital that we negotiate effectively and rapidly with our reliable partners. they are also our close allies, like norway and the united states. our eu prosperity and economic security are also key to their prosperity and economic security. it doesn't make sense that the exceptional profits due to the war in ukraine should make europeans poorer, our economies weaker and our industries less competitive and this just to maintain our gas imports. so these negotiations must move forward without delay. ladies and gentlemen, the price of gas on the international market has gone down substantially since august, but it remains much higher than before the war in ukraine. it's critical that we get these prices down while also ensuring our security of supply. and the european commission is tasked with preparing a new complementary benchmark by early 2023. and this new benchmark should better reflect the reality of the european gas market. the commission is also tasked with developing a dynamic price corridor to reduce price volatility in natural gas transactions as soon as possible. and finally, the european council awaits a proposal for a temporary cap on the price of gas for electricity generation supported by a cost-benefit analysis. finally, we discussed how we can support the resilience of our economies, to protect our families, our businesses, and to preserve our single market, the pillar of our prosperity, while avoiding fragmentation. we also need to protect the competitiveness of our companies compared to other regions of the world. we are already seeing, for example, the first incentives for our companies to relocate their factories, notably across the atlantic. so we must closely coordinate our national policies. and you've also agreed to mobilise all appropriate financial tools at national and at european level to maintain a level playing field within our union. the council will monitor the situation closely and act to ensure an appropriate policy response. yes, these issues are complex, but you have entered into these debates confronting any taboos. ladies and gentlemen, this council was also an opportunity to address, once again, a subject at the heart of our mobilization: the war against ukraine. it was an opportunity, after the long debate in prague, to reaffirm our unity - firm - to support ukraine as much as possible, firstly financially - and we must continue to work to implement the promise of the additional €3 billion of macro-financial assistance. we have also committed ourselves to work on more structural funding. the commission's proposal will be analysed very seriously for next year, so that a signal of stability can be given to the ukrainians. we also want to continue our efforts on the military, humanitarian and political fronts. as you know, there was also talk of the german presidency of the g7, with chancellor scholz and the president of the commission having recently convened a conference on reconstruction in berlin. and we want these efforts, which are being made from within the european union with our partners and allies. we also had the opportunity to raise in the council the importance of being mobilised to ensure that there is no impunity and to support, within the framework of national and international justice, all efforts to ensure that those responsible for war crimes are held accountable for their actions before justice, whether national or international. finally, we have had in this european council a strategic debate which is absolutely essential to us on the relationship between the european union and china, and this is a few weeks after an important political moment for that country. first, we want to note that the chinese political and institutional system - this is obvious - is radically different from the model we have in europe. as europeans, we share these values of human rights, these values of fundamental personal freedoms (freedom of the press, freedom of expression, etc.). censorship has no place in the european union, and all leaders reaffirmed their commitment to always stand up, to never look down when it comes to upholding these fundamental values, because we believe we have a responsibility to always defend human rights and democratic principles. secondly, we are well aware - and the war launched by russia shows this in a very brutal way in the energy sector - that it is essential that the european union should be equally sovereign and autonomous in its relationship with china, and that it should therefore not accept any excessive dependence, particularly in the technological sector. the issue of rare materials and semiconductors is therefore crucial for our future in terms of technological innovation. more reciprocity in the economic field and ever fairer conditions of competition are principles for which we must work hard. third and last point: it is clear that on topics of global importance, such as the climate, which we discussed a few hours ago at the cop in sharm el-sheikh, it is essential to engage with all the countries in the world that have a responsibility to take on in order to reduce this climate threat. the same is true, as we have seen in the covid-19 crisis, in the health sector, mobilizing, for example, to draw on the consequences of this pandemic and have a more comprehensive and supportive response in the future. this implies, as you can see, that we must be mobilised. the european council is clear about the way china is evolving, the way china is looking at things and acting internationally and multilaterally, and in this context it is clear that our intention, our ambition is to uphold our values, our principles, to defend our interests and to carry forward a worldview that deeply believes in the dignity of every human being. finally, ladies and gentlemen, this debate in the european council was also an opportunity - and i link this to the first speeches in this house - to express myself in the context of the latest developments in iran. initial sanctions decisions have been taken and at this very moment member states are continuing to work towards implementing additional sanctions. i think it is essential that the european union's leaders come together forcefully and, i hope, with a large majority to condemn in the strongest possible terms the repression of peaceful protesters and to commend the extraordinary courage of these women and girls who are fighting for their dignity and for the dignity we want to defend here and everywhere in the world.
president of the commission. – thank you very much, madam president, dear roberta, president michel, dear charles, honourable members, indeed, the bulk of the discussion in the european council was about the important topic of energy and the magnitude of the energy crisis calls absolutely for both a sense of urgency and strategic foresight. and i think we should not forget where we came from. we have made more progress than we thought ever possible because we should not forget that since the beginning of this war, putin has cut 80% of the pipeline gas supply to the european union – 80%. and in only eight months, we have managed to replace most of it. we have more than doubled, for example, the imports of lng from the united states – from 22 bcm last year to 48 bcm this year so far. this has, among other things, made it possible for us to fill our storages by 95%. and, at the same time, we have reduced our gas consumption by 15%. i have not forgotten how at the beginning of this war putin tried to put pressure on us through energy and how some feared that we would have blackouts in europe when the war started. so, honourable members, not only did this dark scenario not materialise but now we are fully prepared for the winter. and, crucially, gas prices have dropped by roughly two-thirds compared to the peak that we had in august. so putin really tried everything to bring us down to our knees. he completely failed. we have all played our part to make this happen, and i think we can be proud of this. meine damen und herren abgeordnete! in den zurückliegenden wochen haben wir ein ganzes bündel von maßnahmen erarbeitet, um die preise zu drücken; zum beispiel eine preisbremse im gasmarkt, die auf dem weg ist. wir haben den mitgliedstaaten ermöglicht, zufallsgewinne von den energieunternehmen abzuschöpfen, um einkommensschwache haushalte und besonders energieintensive betriebe zu unterstützen. wir haben inzwischen eine gemeinsame plattform für den einkauf von gas, und natürlich haben wir die arbeit an einem besseren design für unseren elektrizitätsmarkt. das ist alles gut, das ist alles wichtig, und das bringt uns in eine gute position für den kommenden winter. dennoch ist es mir wichtig, dass wir heute einmal diskutieren, weil schon absehbar ist, dass die nächste füllperiode für unsere gasspeicher eine mit sicherheit noch größere herausforderung wird als dieses jahr. denn wir müssen spätestens ab nächstem frühjahr mit drei weiteren faktoren rechnen, die zu unseren ungunsten gehen: zuerst ist da natürlich das risiko, dass russland die letzten 20 % der gaszuflüsse auch noch stoppt. zweitens steht heute schon fest, wenn wir uns die investitionen in flüssiggaskapazitäten anschauen, dass die zusätzlichen flüssiggaskapazitäten, die nächstes jahr auf den markt kommen, nicht ausreichen werden, um diese lücke zu füllen. und natürlich müssen wir drittens damit rechnen, dass asien – wenn die wirtschaft wieder anspringt – den löwenanteil dieses zusätzlichen flüssiggasangebots aufsaugen wird. das heißt, im ergebnis können diese drei faktoren dazu führen, dass wir ein erhebliches risiko haben, dass europa am ende des kommenden sommers etwa 30 milliarden kubikmeter flüssiggas fehlen, um die speicher auf die aktuellen füllstände dieses winters zu bringen – wie gesagt, wenn diese drei risiken sich materialisieren. aber wir müssen handeln, und wir müssen darauf vorbereitet sein. and therefore, honourable members, as i was describing these three risks, we are now getting prepared to tackle these potential risks but we should not forget that in doing so we are also setting the right course for the future. because our choices today will determine whether we have the right energy we need for 2023 and beyond. this is why today i would like to focus on two topics that are crucial. first, renewables. it is no exaggeration to say that we stand at a crossroads. we can decide right now either to ignore the lessons that we have learned in this crisis and fall again into the trap of a carbon lock-in for the future or we can use this crisis to leapfrog into clean energy. this is not only good for our climate but it is also good for our security and our independence, especially in times when gas is and will stay a scarce commodity. the good news is, in this scenario, that we are ready to accelerate. by the end of the year, we will have achieved the largest growth in renewables in the history of the european union. this is almost a further 50 gigawatts that we will have additionally as renewables in the market, which is double what we had added last year. and we could accelerate even more. there are countless renewable projects that are just waiting to be approved. some could deliver cheap energy immediately in a matter of weeks or months. i’m thinking, for example, of solar panels on existing buildings, or i’m thinking of repowering of wind parks. but we know that far too many of these projects are stuck because of long, long permitting procedures. now, our new renewable energy directive that you have already voted on in plenary addresses this topic. but it will take time – well over a year – before this directive is translated into national law by all member states. with these extraordinary circumstances our citizens and industries are facing, we do not have the luxury of time. and this is why today we are proposing a new emergency regulation under article 122, to immediately speed up permitting for renewable energy projects with a rapid impact. this proposal will be limited in time and scope. it will be in line with what you have voted on and it will bridge the gap until the new renewable energy directive comes into force. and by doing so, we can unlock a myriad of renewable projects already in the next 12 months. so this is a very decisive move right now. according to the calculations by the international energy agency, we could replace 14 billion cubic metres of gas already next year, and that’s almost half of our potential gap i was just describing, just by speeding up the permitting of these projects. this is realistic and we can all pull this off together and i think we should grab the opportunity right now. madame la présidente, mesdames et messieurs les députés, mon deuxième point est que nous devons sauvegarder la compétitivité de l’industrie européenne. ce travail commence chez nous, ici, en europe. nos industries intensives en énergie, comme la chimie, l’acier, le verre, ont besoin d’un accès sûr à une énergie bon marché. mais, dans ces temps exceptionnellement durs, les prix ont augmenté considérablement par rapport à ceux de nos principaux concurrents. beaucoup de nos entreprises sont en grande difficulté, et c’est pourquoi nous avons réactualisé notre encadrement temporaire de crise en matière d’aides d’état et avons augmenté les plafonds d’aides d’état pour les pme et les industries intensives en énergie. mais, si tous les états membres ont besoin d’augmenter et d’accélérer leurs investissements pour réduire la demande en énergie et accroître la production de renouvelables, ils ne peuvent pas tous se permettre d’accorder des aides d’état. et c’est là que repowereu entre en jeu. […] honourable members, this is where repowereu comes into play. because if we boost the financial firepower of repowereu, we will ensure that all member states have the possibility to realise these critical investments. in other words, this would give every member state the same opportunity to prepare for the future and at the same time some fiscal space to support vulnerable households and businesses. so let’s go for it. and this work is also helpful against the backdrop of an intensifying global clean tech race because it will keep europe attractive for industry. let me be very clear: i do welcome global competition. this drives innovation, enhances efficiency and ensures progress. at the same time, in order to be effective, this global competition has to be fair. we need a level playing field. we do not want to see market distortions or discrimination against our companies. so let’s make sure that this is not a race to the bottom, but this is a race to the top for our climate and for our industry. that’s what europe stands for. and i know that’s also what this parliament stands for. long live europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i welcome president von der leyen, president michel back to the european parliament. it is clear that following the last european council in october, we shall work together now to make sure that we buy gas together, we store gas together, we improve our energy infrastructure, we improve interconnectivity, so we can move energy from where we have it, where it is stored, to those countries, those regions, those enterprises who will need it. we should make sure that we also work on the prices in europe. in the future, increased gas prices should not lead automatically to increased electricity prices, as was the case in the past. the reform of our electricity market is something long due. european energy companies have made big profits because of how the european market is organised right now. we should make sure that vulnerable categories of people and of enterprises shall have access to the significant profits, to the significant revenues of these companies in this situation of emergency. energy should be affordable, energy should be safe, energy should be secure for the people of europe. we should continue working to reduce our dependency on russian fossil fuels. we should improve our energy efficiency because the more efficient we are, the less energy we need to reach our objectives, the less we are dependent on foreign sources. and, of course, we should improve and fasten our framework for investments into renewables. we have enough solar, we have enough sun, we have enough wind here in europe, we have enough hydro. this is the way clearly to go. we as a european parliament will be voting tomorrow on our position on repowereu that will make available eur 20 billion of additional funds for exactly this energy infrastructure, efficiency, interconnectivity, renewables, reducing dependency on russia. madam president, president michel, we should also work with the governments of the member states to use the unused loans from the recovery and resilience facility – money still available to put to work, to make it available for those who need it to improve energy infrastructure. first point. second point, since the beginning of the war, we said we want to stay united. we want to sanction the aggressor but we also want to support ukraine, which is fighting for values, for democracy, with all we can. today, the european commission has put forward an important package of support for ukraine. and i say this package is important for ukraine, but it is important for all of us here in the european union. the ukrainian state will need the money which the european commission proposes today to function – for hospitals, for schools to function, for public administration, for pensions and salaries to be paid. this is why the group of the european people’s party will work with the commission, and we call on colleagues here in the parliament to stay united as a parliament, to make sure that we stand by the side of ukraine with all it needs over the course of the next year. it is the right thing to do. it will increase the credibility and the influence of the european union if we, as a union, are at the forefront of helping ukraine in the upcoming months. but of course, in order to be able to help ukraine, we need to make sure that our economy stays strong as well. and this is why, following the proposal put forward by the european commission today on the reform of the stability and growth pact, we as the epp group say the following: we welcome the fact that we are looking at our rules now, but the objective needs to be clear. growth in the european union needs to be faster and more robust than the growth of our debt. we need to strengthen our economies. we need to reform them. we need to make sure that they remain competitive. we need to make sure that we respect the rules so that growth is faster for the economies than for debt. our economies should go faster than debt because too much debt is a risk to our economies, is a burden to our economies. we should make sure that our economies are robust so that they can help people. and please count on us to work together on all of this. thank you for the proposal on ukraine.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. three weeks have passed since the european council meeting and time flies, but the only advantage of talking past due is that it allows us to have a better perspective of what was decided three weeks ago and of the effects that those decisions may have, because the october council meeting was a missed opportunity to act decisively and to stop the tsunami that the energy crisis is causing in the economy. inflation affects all sectors of the economy and parliament has been calling for some measures for months and finally, three weeks ago, the council started to take them, albeit very timidly. if these measures had been agreed in the summer, we would have arrived at the winter in different circumstances than we are now. curbing speculation in the gas markets was the first step, the easiest, and we have already seen that the mere announcement of the measures has caused the ttf price index for electricity to fall. if it had been done earlier, we would have saved millions of euros. the same would be true if the price of gas and electricity were finally unlinked, which would save consumers a lot of money. the measures we propose require time, and time is what families do not have. we are constantly asking for time, and what time do families have when they have a gas or electricity bill and they can't pay it? are we going to stop them from cutting the power if they can't afford to pay? maybe that's what we should be talking about, too. to tackle inflation and to reduce the bills, we need a strong european response. a european solidarity package for this winter with the disbursement of €100 billion to support those who need it most in the face of the brutal rise in the cost of living. we need to have permanent fiscal capacity. we have seen how nextgenerationeu and the european unemployment insurance scheme have worked. the problem we have now, ladies and gentlemen, is our reaction time, because time is running out. we took a big step back then, in time, with covid and now it's a matter of recognizing that we also have to act with a fiscal capacity for this situation. the commission presented a communication on the review of economic governance today. let us take this opportunity to work within a new framework that will help us to face the future. i am not telling you anything new if i say that the forecasts for next year are not good and that is why it is still urgent to ensure that households can cope with the cost of living. the minimum wage directive which we have just adopted in this house should be implemented by the member states immediately. moreover, no one in europe should be left without a minimum income and no pensioner should have a pension below the poverty line. our main objective, when we talk about economic governance, is the dignity of people. it's a matter of social justice; those who have benefited most from this crisis and also from the covid crisis must stand shoulder to shoulder and contribute to a common effort. taxes on skyrocketing profits are a good way to generate the income that society as a whole needs. i don't know what we're waiting for to get it started. the dignity of persons should also be our guide in adopting a new pact on migration and asylum; that is the spirit of the geneva convention and also of the european treaties, but we have to make it a reality and it cannot be the responsibility of a few countries alone. it has to be a shared responsibility. solidarity between member states and solidarity with the people who are suffering and who are asking the european union for help. this is the only way forward when each member of the community takes responsibility and works in solidarity. i recognise that there is no easy solution, but it is our responsibility and we have to combine three important challenges: to lead the fight against global warming, to stand firm in defence of ukraine and to use our tools and new ones to support european industry, businesses and families. and for that reason - i repeat to the council and the commission - count on us, listen to this house and also stop using article 122, because we want to be part of the search for solutions.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear colleagues, our group, renew europe, is once again calling on leaders in the council to set their differences aside and deliver for our citizens. putin’s criminal war in ukraine has unleashed an energy crisis on europe. the cost of living has been dramatically rising throughout the whole continent. this is not the time for bickering. this is not the time for national selfishness, for kicking the can down the road. but, sadly, this is all that we have been seeing from the council so far – apart from some agreements on principles: very little actual progress. this is unacceptable, because time is working against us. families are struggling to make ends meet. many businesses, even local governments, are on the brink of bankruptcy. it could not be more urgent to help them, especially the most vulnerable. we need european solutions and we need them now. our group has outlined a set of concrete and bold proposals: a european energy shield with a windfall tax to redirect big firms’ profits to consumers and struggling small businesses, with joint purchases of energy so that we can pool our negotiating power to bring down prices, with a temporary dynamic price cap for an immediate cut in utility bills and an emergency boost to energy investments because we need to expand supply, ease bottlenecks and speed up the transition to renewables. sadly, there are member states, just like my own, that are doing the exact opposite. it’s against our interests and it’s against common sense, but this is still happening. the orban government has basically put the brakes on the solar energy sector, not to mention wind energy, which is practically banned in our country. so we need, urge and support european solutions here, with regulation from the eu level and direct emergency funds. finally, colleagues, let me also raise a broader, more strategic point. we now see what a huge and terrible mistake it was for europe to create such a dependency on russia, on an authoritarian regime that uses its economic power as a weapon. we cannot make the same mistakes with china. i really hope that german chancellor scholz and all heads of government in the council hear this message from us.
mr president, i would like to take this minute to appeal to the commission not to abandon the subject of animal welfare even in these difficult times. i understand that we're dealing with other issues right now, energy prices, the war in ukraine, but this is a topic that we should be continually addressing. i am saying this because i was very dissatisfied with the answer the commission gave to my question whether the european union should not deal more with the treatment of animals in slaughterhouses. and i was referring to the new regulation in spain, where monitoring of slaughterhouses will lead, in my view, to better treatment of animals and to the elimination of excesses that are hidden from both state supervision and the professional and lay public. so i ask you very much, even though the answer, which i disagree with and which was very alibi-based and evasive and i did not understand in principle whether or not the commission wants to develop this subject further and debate it, not to underestimate this subject.
mr president there is only one eu government that is slowing down sweden and finland's nato accession, and that is the orbán government. and the accession of sweden and finland would greatly enhance european security. but then why is viktor orbán doing this, why is he slowing down this process? because since orbán can't steal, he has another passion, blackmail. he wants concessions, he wants to get you to turn a blind eye to theft and abuse in exchange for ratification. don't do that to me. do not allow theft, and do not allow blackmail. viktor orbán will give in, precisely because he knows that without europe he cannot solve the crisis into which he has led hungary. hungary will ratify nato expansion because we, the hungarian democrats in europe, will force it, we will force it day by day, week by week, until it happens. because this is hungary, and this is europe's interest.
mr president, i want to address the issue of the recently announced peace deal in northern ethiopia. while it was announced seven days ago, there is still no humanitarian access to tigray. the question i want to raise is impunity. many experts have given evidence that genocide has taken place in tigray. the crimes committed by the ethiopian national defence forces amount to genocide – an attempt to destroy the tigrayan ethnicity. of course, there has been violence on all sides, but only the charge of genocide is laid at the door of the ethiopian state. genocide is a crime of universal jurisdiction so that any member state has the capacity to investigate, but i’m not filled with hope. my own country, ireland, was the only one to denounce the ethiopian regime forcefully and was targeted, threatened and subjected to diplomatic expulsions. our first priority must be humanitarian access and sustaining the peace, but surely the european union cannot let genocide go unpunished in 2022.
mr president, i would like to express my full support for the workers of the galician platform of the dependency and home care service in my country, the sad, who have been demonstrating in different galician towns over the past week against a collective agreement that goes against their interests. they are asking for a fair, dignified agreement that does not make this sector even more precarious. a feminized sector, low-paid work, essential sector in the pandemic. a sector of aid that has become a business, a job that has no recognized occupational diseases, where people are treated as machines and not as essential workers for people who need the usual help. the workers in this parliament have denounced their cause, calling for fair working conditions. these european parliament resolutions warn of the increasing poverty of these workers and call for an end to their situation, which has been reported on several occasions by the workers of the home support service. we're with you, sad workers.
mr president, i would like to thank you. from 2035, the eu wants to ban the sale of new petrol and diesel cars. this madness will have drastic consequences for the environment and the economy. in addition, it will increase our dependence on china, which in the future will hit back very hard. just look at what the naive political decision to become dependent on russian gas has led to. the batteries are mainly cobalt and lithium. 80% of the cobalt comes from chinese mines in the congo, where children work for $1 a day. their working conditions are inhumane. lithium is plentiful, but mining is an ecological disaster. to extract one ton of lithium, it takes one million liters of water! didn't everyone just warn us there's a drought in our forests? this policy is neither sustainable nor responsible. there is total disregard for the consequences for our environment, our economy and our human rights. it's time to take off the ideological glasses and face the truth.
mr president, to prevent the worsening of socioeconomic inequalities and to avoid a deep recession requires increased investment and public spending. on the contrary, the proposal for a reform of macroeconomic governance put forward today by the european commission goes in the opposite direction. it maintains the arbitrary maastricht criteria, which have no economic basis, usurp economic sovereignty and impose the neoliberal diktat. it makes the excessive deficit procedures for countries automatic, simplifies and strengthens the sanctions. they impose investment and development options and ceilings on public spending, predicting even greater pressures on public services such as health or education. by deepening its interference with sovereign options, it is intruding into the economic policies of the states, far beyond the strictly budgetary dimension. the reform which this proposal proposes, by claiming flexibility, only confirms that the yoke is tightened even further on the states and the peoples, exacerbating differences between countries, following, as always, the position of germany. that's how you know who's boss. they lose countries like portugal, they lose the workers and the people. it is a matter of sovereignty and it is a stealthy attack on democracy.
mr president, dear colleagues, the russian aggression against ukraine continues and children bear a particular toll. ukrainian authorities confirm almost 11 000 deported children, while only 96 returned. however, the actual number of deported children is hard to confirm and might be higher. we had a chance today to hear the real testimony of yulia payevska. she’s a ukrainian paramedic who filmed the atrocities and was released after three months of captivity. she also spoke about children who are being kidnapped and put up for adoption by russian families. her message was clear: ‘help them, please’. therefore, i call for strong cooperation with the un and international organisations such as unicef and the red cross to find these children and give them back safely to their families. there is our strong commitment.
mr president, dear colleagues, a nationwide movement is sweeping across hungary, protesting against the crisis of public education. and we just had a group of teachers and students here in brussels so they can get a platform and directly talk to eu decision—makers. let me tell you, it was one of the most gratifying days of work in my mandate. colleagues from the eu’s side literally teared up as they listened to their testimonies, as they talked about teachers getting fired for striking or the environment of oppression and intimidation, where people are threatened and harassed only for raising their voices. or the fact that the net salary of a teacher is around eur 400. yes, you heard me right. so why am i bringing this up here? because it is a matter that belongs at europe’s table. yes, public education is a national competence, but taking away basic rights is a rule-of-law issue. access to education is a civil rights issue. state propaganda spreading falsehoods against protesters – it is a matter of media freedom. hungarian teachers and students are eu citizens, and they deserve europe’s support as well.
in writing. the effective protection of the digital environment is a major challenge, as regulation needs to be adapted to a rapidly changing environment. european citizens are spending an increasing proportion of their lives online, for work, for official business and for personal contact. this has been increasingly true since the coronavirus pandemic, and during the pandemic, many institutions and organizations have had to switch to digital operations almost overnight. it is important to ensure a high level of protection for citizens of the european union in the digital space, and i welcome this legislation. given the cross-border nature of the digital space, i consider effective enforcement and a high level of cooperation between member states to be particularly important in order to fully achieve the objectives set out in the legislation. i am confident that the legislation will bring about rapid and tangible results.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, commissioner, this is not the time to compromise on principles or to give in to mr orbán's odious blackmail, who is using the war in ukraine to make us bend. let us remember that in hungary, the lights are always red, because for years, all the principles have been trampled one by one: freedom of the press, independence of the judiciary, the principle of fair elections, the continuous violation of the rights of lgbt people, the establishment of a clientelist system that allows those close to power to pocket public contracts and european funds, from the cap to the erdf. the measures recently proposed by the hungarian government must of course be evaluated, but we are not fooled. these measures are insufficient. they are totally inadequate and that is why the funds must be frozen today. they must be implemented not to punish hungarians but to move hungary forward on the path of respect for the rule of law and sharing the core values on which eu membership is based. to refuse to defend this today, at any cost, is to allow the poison distilled by illiberal governments to spread and, in the end, to expose the entire union to grave dangers for the future.
madam president, please. today is the eleventh hungarian debate in the cycle. there's a pandemic, there's an economic crisis, there's a war, there's an energy crisis. but you can spend time with the cherry-step of insulting hungary three or four times a year? this is sick political blindness. moreover, in the conditionality procedure, the european parliament has no power to assess, alongside the commission, the fulfilment of the commitments of a member state. you haven't been dealt a card, what you're doing is illegal. you are desperate and worried because all the signs indicate that the left is losing the political war against the hungarians. there will be an agreement between the european commission and hungary, so they are now using their lies to attack the commission for not daring to agree with hungary. the left-wing rule of law witch hunts are a true bolshevik moment, driven by a sense of superiority, exclusivity, and the threat and punishment of anyone who disagrees with you. the left is the one that is violating democratic interests and the rule of law, the values and undermining european cooperation.
madam president, i never quite understand the position of our hungarian fidesz colleagues, because for years they have been telling us that there is nothing wrong in hungary on the rule of law, on democracy, on anti—corruption, that all is good and that everybody who criticises it is part of an ideological jihad against hungary, etc. and we are all part of the extreme left here. now there is eur 7.5 billion at stake, and all of a sudden there are so many things wrong in hungary that they felt the need to do 17 very urgent reforms, and we are expected now to believe that these reforms will actually make a difference in practice. the hungarian government so far has never shown any willingness to make meaningful reforms. but we are expected to believe now that a quick push of some legislation is making a lasting difference on the ground. this for us, as the epp, is the key bottom line: only significant, tangible and lasting reform can enable the release of eu taxpayers’ money. nothing less will do. but this is not only about the hungarian government and its reforms, it’s about europe. it’s about the kind of european union we want to be, and there is a clear choice. we can be a european union of shared fundamental values like democracy and the rule of law, a union that is willing to fight for those values, also when it’s difficult, or particularly when it’s difficult. or the other choice, we can be a union that falls at the first bit of pressure and bows to blackmail. these are our options, and only one of them will have a viable future for the european union. so, commissioner, please take that into consideration when you assess these hungarian reforms. this is about the future of our union, so please act wisely.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, whenever i talk to constituents on the ground, one question tends to come up over and over again, which is: does the european commission really believe that a new authority and a couple of new laws would change anything in hungary? because hungarian people on the ground know from years of experience that systemic deficiencies with the rule of law have never been about a lack of a new authority, because this is a government that hollows out the institutions and acts in bad faith. they are never going to feel bound by a set of adjustments created by themselves as opposed to a credible, already existing authority like the eu prosecutor’s office. and please answer me this: why is the orbán government so insistent on creating new authorities instead of joining the eppo? we have said it so many times, this is a real chance. this can be a historic chance, a historic moment to slow down or even reverse hungary’s rapid slide into authoritarianism. this parliament worked long and hard to achieve more efficient rules. and we have reiterated our call. let’s help the people, not the government. direct eu funds to local governments, to civil society, to schools and hospitals, to those who need it the most. commissioner, it’s time to make this happen. not only the eu’s financial interests are at stake, but also the rights of hungarian citizens.
madam president, i'm sure you are. today, hundreds of millions of people worldwide suffer from diabetes and insulin resistance. i'm one of them. it's become the disease of our time. in the past two years, the epidemic has further worsened the situation of those living with the disease and significantly reduced the possibilities for prevention. this is why i have asked the european commission to develop an action plan for the prevention and treatment of diabetes, but unfortunately, so far, the answer has been no. the good news is that there are countries, including my country, hungary, where the government is focusing on treating the problems of diabetics, and helping them in a number of ways. i still believe that there is an urgent need to develop a directive to stop this deteriorating trend. i hope that the commission's position will change in the near future and that we can act together and effectively against diabetes.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i’m really very pleased that we’re able to have this discussion today and to be part of this debate. i believe that is one of the times that we are all saying and sending the same messages. all of us here to different numbers of the incidents. each of these numbers represents a person, represents a family. and as someone that has worked in the area of diabetes, in working with children and their families to then diagnosis of diabetes, i know how important it is that we do bring this topic to the highest of the political agendas and this is what the commission is doing. and when we speak with people affected by diabetes, they repeat much of what was said here today. i was hearing very carefully a number of the meps – mep weiss and mep kopcińska – saying how important it is to have a holistic approach to all non-communicable diseases. and meps lancini and mažylis had said we need better data and we do. and véronique trillet-lenoir and meps metz, ries and others spoke of the multidisciplinary approach we need and the fact that we need to address all the risk factors looking at prevention, looking at nutrition, raising awareness and working with education. and this is exactly what the healthier together initiative, as many of you mentioned, has done. it has prioritised many of the actions on diabetes that address these very points. and this is very close cooperation with member with member states. i also heard mep tóth share with us her personal experience of diabetes and asking for it to have a separate strategy. and i just want to say here, because i think that we need to sometimes look at what we are doing to make sure that we are effective, the health together initiative was created in coordination with the member states and the stakeholders, including the patient groups on diabetes. and looking at how we can have effective actions to reduce the burden of most non-communicable diseases in the eu. this is a holistic approach that looks at prevention and care, and diabetes as one of the five target strands of the healthier together initiative. and there is already a number of projects ongoing which are looking at diabetes in the eu4health programme of 2021 and this year. so i believe that we need to look at how this healthier together initiative brings fruit, see how it is being implemented, and then see how we move forward with this. we have actions which are launched which target specifically not only diabetes as a disease but also the risk factors, which all of you today said that this is what we need to do. this is why parliament’s work is a very important contribution to this effort. it will galvanise action. it will help us guide, direct our efforts and together, and in the spirit of what we have all worked on for a strong european health union, i believe that we can reduce the burden of diabetes on all. so thank you so much for all the interventions.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on wednesday, november 23, 2022. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. this year's world diabetes day is focused on education. it is vital not only to prevent diabetes but also to prevent its complications. diabetes affects almost 10% of the total eu population. there is also a high likelihood that glucose intolerance could lead to diabetes in 32 million eu citizens. the costs of diabetes to the healthcare systems of the member states currently represent around 10% of healthcare expenditure in the eu as a whole. aging and increasing weight, unhealthy diet, and sedentary lifestyle are all contributing to the rapid increase in the number of type 2 diabetics. diabetes is a growing threat in the eu. investing in prevention is essential to prevent diabetes through a healthy lifestyle starting in childhood.
before we move on to the next item, i'd like to make a few announcements. the validity of the credentials of ms eva-maria poptcheva with effect from 15 september 2022, ms carina ohlsson with effect from 26 september 2022, mr matthias ecke with effect from 3 october 2022, ms theresa muigg with effect from 10 september 2022 and mr johan nissinen with effect from 11 october 2022 is hereby confirmed by parliament on a proposal from the committee on legal affairs.
the next item is the commission statement on the human rights situation in qatar in the context of the football world cup (2022/2948 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, today’s debate is really a timely opportunity to discuss the situation of human rights in the context of the fifa world cup in qatar. yesterday, one of the most watched global sports events kicked off in doha. over 1 million visiting football fans are expected and billions will be watching worldwide. besides the hosting of this important tournament, the country’s human rights record has been in the global spotlight throughout its preparation over the last few months. according to the international labour organization, for example, 50 people died in qatar and some 500 others suffered serious injuries in work related accidents linked to building the world cup infrastructure in 2020. each single one of those deaths is, of course, a tragedy. but qatar has also made significant progress on labour rights over the past years. it was the first country in the gulf to dismantle the discriminatory kafala system which kept qatar’s large migrant worker population at the mercy of their employers. and qatar has adopted a new law establishing a non-discriminatory minimum wage. in addition, they have ensured a stricter oversight of world cup infrastructure projects. in many projects, qatar is a frontrunner in this sense. what is important to notice is that the organisation of the world cup and the fact that it has made existing deficiencies become more evident have in fact accelerated labour reform in qatar. at the same time, we all know that numerous challenges remain. segments of the society and business community are resisting the reforms, including certain western multinationals operating in qatar. thousands of migrant workers have seen their wages or work allowances cut or not paid at all, despite the government’s effort under the new minimum wage legislation. living conditions of migrant workers need improvement and there is a need for better data collection of work—related fatalities and injuries. there are also concerns around the rights of lgbtiq persons – either visiting football fans or, more importantly, those residing in qatar, where homosexuality is still illegal. so, yes, the human rights path for qatar is far from complete and, as for any other country, it is a continuous journey that will never be finished. human rights – and in particular labour rights – are key elements of the eu’s bilateral engagement with qatar at all levels. qatar has been open to this and welcomed this engagement. in fact, vice-president schinas and commissioner schmit regularly discuss labour rights with qatari leaders, and the eu special representative for human rights, eamon gilmore, has also engaged extensively on this matter, including through his field visit to the construction site of one of the world cup stadiums in qatar in february of 2020 and through his follow—up meetings earlier this year. more recently, last week, the european parliament droi committee held a constructive public hearing in the presence of the qatari labour minister, providing the opportunity to raise openly all pertinent concerns about the situation of labour rights in that country. it is important that we remain engaged and continue to encourage the qatari authorities to address those remaining challenges, with a view to ensuring the sustainability of the ongoing reforms beyond the world cup and to the benefit of the qatari people and all those residing in the country. qatar has now a chance to show the world that it is ready and that it is willing to continue on the path of openness, the path of tolerance and the path of modernisation. this will encourage human rights reforms elsewhere in the region as well as in other countries hosting big sports events.
the s&d group. madam president, unlike my predecessor, i am not a footballer and therefore cannot discuss the situation of football as he does. but when i am asked if a world cup is an opportunity to talk about human rights, i would like to say no. i would like to reply that no country should wait for an event, whatever it may be, before addressing the issue of human rights. when, ten years ago, fifa decided to host this world cup in qatar, we knew that this choice was questionable. we have in fact contested it in a resolution voted here in the european parliament in 2013. but today we are there and so it is important, indeed, to be able to take stock of the human rights situation in qatar, with this visibility that the world cup has given us, and to be able to see what has been done, what has been violated and what can still be done. i think that is the purpose of the debate today and that is the purpose of the meeting we had last week in the subcommittee on human rights with the ngos, human rights watch, which was invited to the subcommittee on rights, the ilo, the etuc and, of course, the members of the subcommittee on rights. so yes, as you said, commissioner, qatar has made progress. there is no kafala today. it is true that the law as such no longer exists. but we know that in some sectors, kafala still exists in a rather peculiar way, especially for people at home. an ilo office is present. ngos are present. but there have been violations, there have been deaths, and there's a need for compensation. we need to work with qatar to make these compensations happen. and most importantly, there's the future. the future also rests on the responsibility of our companies, because our companies in qatar have not always met the minimum required by qatar.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the qatar football world cup will always be remembered as the world cup of shame. as the world is watching these grand stadiums, all i can think about is how they were built. credible sources show that thousands of workers lost their lives and the qatari authorities even refused to investigate these cases. a giant amount of financial resources flowed into a project that was tainted by forced labour, environmental destruction and deep corruption. these violations have not stopped; they are ongoing. it’s absurd and unacceptable that organisers threaten journalists or penalise players for wearing rainbow armbands. all that this is really showing is that they just don’t understand the value of sports at all – the spirit of community and respect for each other. this parliament has to condemn in the strongest possible terms both fifa and the host country. we can never turn our backs on these human rights violations and we have to fight to ensure that there will be consequences.
in writing. the stability of europe is closely linked to the security of the countries of the wider middle east. so we cannot be indifferent to what is happening in the region. we must build our relations with the countries of the middle east on the basis of mutual interest, constructive cooperation and equality. in the meantime, we must not forget that each of these countries has its own traditions, culture and values, and we must respect them and act with due caution. the european union cannot assume the role of a teacher in an ideological cloak, as this report does in many respects. i'd like to mention one country in particular. i was an election observer during the parliamentary elections in lebanon in may. the country of the cedars has suffered much, and now it faces a very serious political and economic crisis. we must provide the necessary assistance and also use diplomatic means to promote stability in the country. this is also key to the return of refugees in lebanon to their own country. we must also keep in mind that lebanon is home to the largest christian population in the middle east.
mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, migration is the eu’s greatest challenge and the gravest social crisis of all times. it is shocking to see thousands of people dying on the sea and outrageous to see smuggler networks benefiting and profiting from migration. the commission’s proposal is far from ground—breaking, but it does help us to focus our conversations – guidelines for ngo boats, coordination with african and asian countries to return migrants, and the push to implement voluntary relocation within the bloc are the right priorities. however, the eu should also make it very clear that it will sanction and not provide any aid or funds to any government that openly or tacitly cooperates with smugglers or is unwilling to interrupt their activities. smugglers conduct slave trade. they are terrorists and they should be treated as such. also, frontex should be developed into a classic border policing and border protection organ under a united command, financed from a common budget. without a common border protection mechanism, the eu will not be able to tackle migration.
in writing. in the days following the outbreak of the russo-ukrainian war, when the first package of sanctions against russia was being prepared, there was talk in brussels that this could have two outcomes: on the one hand, it would bring the russian economy to its knees, and on the other hand, it would bring the war to a quick end. but the conflict has been going on for eight months now, and it's more intense than ever, and the european economy is struggling, and people's money is getting less and less valuable because of the sanctions inflation. europe is in a deep crisis due to unbearable energy prices the union is characterised by declining industries, an economy heading for recession and a declining standard of living. the reason is clear: the poorly designed sanctions policy demanded by the left and the bureaucrats in brussels. people are paying the price for that every day now. the first step in crisis management must be a radical overhaul of sanctions. we can't risk the livelihoods of families, we can't leave our companies to their fate. we must pursue policies that protect jobs and the competitiveness of european industry. only a strong european economy can emerge from the deepening crisis. that's why it's unacceptable that in this grave situation the left is demanding more and more sanctions. it's time to admit that the sanctions policy has failed, and we need to help people and companies!
mr president, dear colleagues, hungary is a neighbour of ukraine, and while the battle front is far, we see thousands of refugees fleeing their country every day. throughout its history, hungarians experienced what it’s like to be exposed to the aggression of mighty empires. for 150 years our ancestors defended europe from the ottoman empire, determined to conquer europe. now it’s ukraine defending our civilisation from yet another aggressor. ukraine needs our support and solidarity. hungarians understand this and stand by ukraine. the orbán regime, the representatives of which do not hold russia to be a state sponsor of terrorism, as we found out from their voting attitude earlier today, like to speak on behalf of our nation. but they are not representative of our entire people. our nation stands on the side of democracy and freedom, as in 1956, and as we ultimately won against the aggressor, so will ukraine.
madam president, please. the cop27 climate summit is a complete failure. it is sad that no real commitments were made at this year's summit, and it is also a cause for serious concern that very few renewed their commitments compared to last year. what happened instead? beyond the financial aid to developing countries, which is still in the early stages, commissioner timmermans has only tried to promote the commission's misguided climate ideology. it must be said that our chief negotiator on eu climate policy is essentially an obstacle to an effective fight against climate change. the eu alone cannot prevent negative developments, and it is only by working together with our partners outside europe that we can find solutions to climate change. instead of reckless sanctions that make climate policy impossible, we need real and effective climate action at global level.
madam president, please. i am pleased that this topic, which i myself initiated, has been brought up because i consider it to be a very important and topical issue. we are aware that the covid pandemic has hit airlines particularly hard. but that should not be a reason to leave the current situation unaddressed. it is time for the eu institutions to finally address the chaos that is perpetuating itself at airports and in air transport, and that is hurting passengers above all. the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected. it is important that eu rules are not just empty promises but are actually enforced. if that's not possible, we need to make better laws. there is a need for swift, effective action at union level, with consumers' interests at its core.
madam president, the prime minister, dr. robert golob, is here. i listened with interest to your speech, in which you highlighted the energy crisis, the green transition and the enlargement of the european union to the balkans. i'm glad you have some suggestions on how to deal with all these challenges. i would be even more pleased if we had solutions for slovenia, where the situation is really worrying. in addition to the issues related to the growing bribery, the rule of law and media freedom are also under threat. thousands of people in slovenia have been left without a doctor in just six months of your government. there are a series of purges, citizens pay one of the highest electricity prices in europe. they're worried about how they're gonna survive the winter with the inflation going up. the economy is warning that your measures are too slow, too complicated and too ineffective. a few days ago, as mentioned, your minister of the interior resigned and accused you of interfering directly with the police, because you personally demanded the release of certain people. you lied to the members of the national assembly. your past and present role in energy deals is filled with unanswered questions. the speaker of the house, your close party associate, goes beyond the rules to dictate what elected members can and cannot ask and compares leading policemen to eichmann. journalists who expose the affairs and inefficiencies of your government are subjected to daily threats and pressure. it's obvious that you use very autocratic methods of leadership. yesterday, this led to the resignation of your party, the resignation of one of the co-founders who disagrees with your policies, and it's becoming increasingly clear that you're trying to establish absolute power in all the institutions while at the same time silencing even those few small media outlets that are critical of you. i'm afraid your actions back home in slovenia don't reflect what you say. and much of the information about the inner workings of your government is difficult for the public to access, because you're protected by the mainstream media and political activists. what you're doing is far from democratic. this is not in line with european values. while the citizens of slovenia will feel the most, the destruction of democracy and the brutal intervention in the media space should also concern the european institutions. if i go back to your speech, then of course we would like most of all that everything you said to the european public should also be realized in slovenia. but words are not enough. people expect action to provide effective health care and help them cope with high prices. instead, they got higher taxes. they expect you to create an environment that is a place for freedom of the press and freedom of thought. the economy expects action now, not next winter. and we all expect you to respect the rule of law and to renounce the destruction of democracy and the establishment of an authoritarian system in slovenia.
madam president, mr prime minister of the republic of slovenia, dr robert golob, distinguished fellow citizens, welcome to strasbourg, welcome to the european parliament and welcome to us. it's nice to hear the slovenian voice here. i thank you for your great commitment to granting candidate status to bosnia and herzegovina as soon as possible. i believe that the efforts of slovenian politics in this direction are crucial and including the efforts of the president of the republic, the minister of foreign affairs and us in the european parliament have borne the first fruits. on my initiative, meps sent a letter to the president of the european parliament, roberto metsolo, in june, asking the european parliament to support the granting of candidate status to bosnia and herzegovina. in view of the current situation and the threat of war in europe, this is an extremely important, if not decisive, step for the entire western balkans region, a region which is often overwhelmed by the drive and the strength to move closer to the european union. and for a region to which the european union promised a european perspective almost 20 years ago in thessaloniki, but which is still a long way from new enlargement. there are strong links not only between slovenia and bosnia and herzegovina but also with the other western balkan countries. slovenia is and remains an ally of the countries in the region without conditions, without insidious games, without harmful interests. today, two days before the december meeting, when the country also has the green light from the commission, i call on european leaders to turn on the green light at the european council. make a clear voice the european union is de facto living its mission of a united and connected europe, of which the western balkans region must become an equal partner. so i ask you, the respected prime minister of the republic of slovenia, dr. robert golob, how do you assess the possibility of a positive decision this weekend for bosnia and herzegovina? which country is the toughest on the issue and is there still a chance of compromise and what message do you want the eu to send to the countries in the region?
mr president, dear prime minister golob, dear colleagues, thank you very much, prime minister, for addressing this chamber today and sharing your vision for the future of europe, a vision that i was so pleased to hear in this chamber. protecting our european values, standing up for the rule of law, facing the climate emergency with courage and ambition: our group, renew europe, is wholeheartedly behind you in the fight for these issues. it’s so important. but also, as a representative of the hungarian momentum movement – the youngest opposition party fighting viktor orbán’s illiberal populism – i also wanted to talk briefly about what i believe this year’s election in slovenia means for us and also for europe as a whole. the government of former prime minister janez janša alarmed europe, and rightfully so. it has shown that no country is immune to democratic backsliding. mr janša issued ad hominem attacks at members of this parliament and against members of our group in particular. at home he attacked civil liberties and undermined judicial independence. media freedom was very severely curtailed as hungarian media tycoons showed up in slovenia, interfering with press freedom and exporting the orbán model. so in short, what we saw is the orbanisation of slovenia. the playbook was just so remarkably similar. and this is why the election victory of the freedom movement has such a broad europe-wide importance. first and foremost, it gave us hope – hope that the global democratic backsliding trend can be stopped and it can be reversed, that the values of liberal democracy and environmentalism can prevail against illiberal populism, also electorally. but, colleagues, the steady erosion of our european values and the trend of democratic backsliding did not stop. and we also still hear talking points of one of the autocrats echoed by major political groups in this house. there is so much work to be done for the european union as a whole to defend our values. so i believe that the new government in slovenia has a very deep understanding, but also strong credibility to stand up for european values. one key priority must be media freedom and a strong eu-wide regulation for media markets. we are looking forward to your leadership on these issues, prime minister.
mr president we are facing the most serious corruption scandal in the history of the european union. the corruption in brussels is shaking the credibility of the entire institutional system of the union. it's become clearer than ever that the left's garbage talk of anti-corruption is just a bunch of political lies. the texts of kaili, barley, freund, verhofstadt or sarvamaa on transparency and control serve only to cover up the corruption in brussels. the robber called for a cop. the hypocrisy is further compounded by the fact that you regularly accuse national governments of corruption and demand financial penalties on the basis of political lies. meanwhile, the corruption in brussels, the commercialization of political influence, is clearly the norm for you, the system, as a politician, as a civil society. with this corruption scandal, brussels has lost all credibility in holding others accountable for corruption.
mr president, qatar’s attempt to buy influence in the european parliament is absolutely outrageous. but it also confronts us with a very grim reality. authoritarian countries are actively trying to infiltrate european institutions and, let’s face it, our safeguards are just not up for the task right now. we knew this was the case in the european council, where viktor orbán has been using his vetoes along the interests of russia or china, undermining europe. and now we see that foreign influence has reached this parliament as well, and it must have very far reaching consequences. we need very urgent reform in ethics and lobbying frameworks, and we need a much better vetting system in foreign policy personnel as well. and our message to qatar must be crystal clear: attempts to silence us and to by the european parliament will never succeed. we will never turn our back on human rights violations, or on the thousands of workers who have died while constructing stadiums for their world cup of shame. in fact, all qatar achieved with their bribe money is that we will fight twice as hard to make sure that there will be some consequences.
mr president, looking back at and evaluating the year 2022, it is fair to say that it will enter our history books as the year when, after eight decades of peace, europe once again is engaged in an all-out war against autocratic regimes. this is the great challenge of our generation. we have to defend it at our borders in ukraine against an authoritarian aggressor. but we also have to defend it within our ranks vis-à-vis, par excellence, hybrid regimes like orbán’s in hungary. the commission and the european parliament have acted with exemplary speed and determination in sanctioning russia. now, just the same way as corrupt bureaucrats or meps undermine the reputation of our institutions, so do authoritarian and corrupt governments of certain member states. why the double standards then? why do we sanction one and not the other? if you will ever have the courage to sanction the representatives of the orbán regime directly and have problems identifying the friends, relatives or cronies of viktor orbán, then please let me know. i’ll be happy to help. thank you and merry christmas.
mr. chairman, i'm glad you're starting to follow the rules, that's good. when we talk about a veto by a nation state, to see (by the way mr verhofstadt, and here he is) citizens of the netherlands speaking out against a veto is hypocrisy. why is it hypocrisy? 11 years without any reason. the netherlands and austria are blocking bulgaria and romania from joining the schengen zone because of their economic interests and now they're sitting here talking to me about the right of veto. we understand what you want, however, dear colleagues. to speak of the rule of law is like representatives of socialists and democrats speaking against corruption, bad things and infidelity, because, gentlemen, for you the rule of law is the dictate of your majority, which you now have here, in this room. and yes, mr president, the conference on the future of europe is nothing more than a gathering of friends who are like-minded. and yes, they really are 0.000001% of the population of the european union. the rule of law means respecting national laws, it means protecting the interests of national states so that people who are not elected by anyone can not dictate to others how to run their countries and how to run their families and societies.
blue-card speech. – mr president, i find the attitude of countries like austria and the netherlands, who are using their veto to block two countries who are fully fulfilling the conditions to enter schengen, as deplorable as the attitude of a country like hungary using their veto in that case. the only thing that you have to do, mr dzhambazki, is say ‘yes, i agree with you’!
blue-card reply. – thank you, but there was no question here. this is some kind of violation of rules here in this room. but still, there is no question. can i answer something or just think something? i don’t know. but yes, mr verhofstadt, the national states need their rights to defend the interests of their citizens against the bureaucratic system in brussels.
blue-card speech. – just a very quick question to you, colleague. do you know where mr verhofstadt is from? you said that he is a dutch citizen and he is not a dutch citizen.
mr president, many here say that vetoes should disappear because they create a so—called ‘gridlock’ in eu decision making. may i remind you that the member states created the eu, not the other way around? moreover, it is only logical and legitimate that member states are and remain in the driving seat. the problem is not the veto. the problem is that you believe it is possible to make one-size-fits all policies for 450 million people living in 27 vastly different countries. your problem is that member states choose to do what is best for their people and not merely submit to an eu decree. that problem, federalist colleagues, is called sovereignty. mr verhofstadt, we do not live in a new age of empires. member states are not provinces of a european empire. they are sovereign democracies, members of an intergovernmental organisation called the eu.
mr president, allowing national vetoes to block european foreign policy decisions is a security threat. full stop. viktor orbán’s vetoes have been a gift to the kremlin, which has a vested interest in an eu that is divided and weak. just remember that earlier this year a sanction package was halted because the hungarian government wanted patriarch kirill off the list. the eu looked just laughable, just like vladimir putin wanted. and the question is this: whose interests do these vetoes serve? surely not hungary’s. we are members of the eu. we are members of nato. our security is guaranteed by these institutions. undermining them also undermines hungary’s security. so let’s get rid of the unanimity rule in foreign affairs. this is a dysfunctional and anti-democratic setup that makes the eu look weak and ridiculous in crucial moments of crisis. in short, shifting to qualified majority will not be easy. but the eu has demonstrated over and over again that it is capable of reform. we need this reform drive. we need it once again. and we need this parliament for it.
madam president, good evening and welcome to the evening news: viktor orbán changed his profile picture. the photo got 60 000 likes in a few hours and thus only likes with comments also. many think he looks more handsome than earlier. others believe the photo depicts a confident and strong leader. so this is an actual quote from a news show on hungary’s second largest tv station. it also happens to be owned by orbán’s childhood friend. so, colleagues, assaults against media freedom doesn’t always entail imprisoned journalists. autocrats get much more sophisticated. it can happen through politically connected oligarchs capturing newsrooms. hungary’s népszabadság, origo, index were all muzzled like this. so, commissioner, we need a strong and enforceable media freedom act that also tackles market concentration. we need effective protection from spying, guarantees for the independence of public service, media and, in general, strong european rules. europe needs to honour the memory of daphne caruana galizia and ján kuciak, reporters who were murdered for doing their job. and the best way to do so stand up against predators of media freedom.
mr president, dear colleagues, on the eu’s doorstep over 17 000 innocent civilians have died in vladimir putin’s barbaric war. ukraine is bracing for a winter without shelter, without power, without food. russian armed forces are deliberately shelling schools and hospitals. the devastation and suffering is unimaginable. and how do europe’s illiberal populists respond to that? they veto humanitarian aid to ukraine because they want to extort money from the eu. first, viktor orbán blocked the aid. he dropped his veto on monday as others in the council promised him some money. and then today the news broke that the polish government wants to extort the eu too. they hold up the aid package, and let’s be honest, they also want money in exchange. there are absolutely no words left to describe how shameful it all is. but i really hope that council finally learned the lesson. if you give in to the extortionists, they will always come back for more.
