mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the dsa is a great opportunity to strengthen user rights, that is, to achieve real improvements for the democratic life that is increasingly taking place online, while strengthening media freedom. the first one worked well. a lot has been achieved here. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the second, on the other hand, was not successful and, from a media-political point of view, a medium-sized disaster. it has been shown time and again that we are not going to make any progress if the committee on culture and media is not sufficiently involved in digital legislation. the text is damaging to journalism and the media. we are not only consolidating the position of the big platforms, which, without any doubt about their profit, decide which professional media and press content is part of our democratic debates in europe. the position of parliament also goes completely beyond the competence of the member states in the areas of culture, media and promotion of diversity, and i believe that promotion of diversity - media diversity and media freedom - is one of the best means of combating disinformation and fake news. i would urge everyone in this house not to be swayed by individual campaigns and to vote in favour of amendments protecting professionally produced media content. i feel that amendments are not understood or are not read at all. many of the arguments have nothing whatsoever to do with the amendments actually to be voted on. yes, the cult committee had wanted a broad media exception that protects editorial content that is already subject to multiple oversight and controls from deletion. but this has not been accepted by a majority in the imco committee, and we must accept that. the amendments 511 and 513 which are now before us are therefore aimed solely at ensuring that platforms respect media freedom in their terms and conditions and that media providers are given a right to be heard in decisions on the removal and blocking of content. this should be taken for granted, but it is far from enough. but it's the least the dsa can do. i therefore urge you all to vote in favour of these two amendments. and finally, i must say that the hypocrisy of some groups in this house when it comes to media freedom leaves me rather stunned. 'doubting the freedom of the media' does not seem to be the paramount issue in this house any more.
mr president, i think the promise of the young internet wasn’t just that it would connect us all together, but rather that it would enhance our access to knowledge, liberate information from monopolies, democratise our societies and move power from the centre into communities and the periphery. and i think the fact that we have this legislation is really signalling our recognition that we’re very far removed from those utopian ideals. because rather than decentralising, we’ve seen the growth of massive internet monopolies who amass unimaginable wealth by abusing their positions. rather than empowering individuals and communities, we now live in a dystopian regime of state and corporate mass surveillance. and instead of fostering a healthy public sphere, our online activity takes place in privately owned spaces where users are manipulated by abusive search and advertising algorithms, and research and public discourse is distorted and polarised. now the digital services act is a start in addressing these problems, but it’s a really inadequate start. real opportunities have been squandered here. a ban on targeted advertising is of paramount importance, and i encourage people to support the amendment in that regard. the privatisation of censorship is a mistake that our societies will be paying for well into the future. we should be forcing the platforms to be interoperable to give power back to internet users, and the language on mandatory identification falls well short of what is necessary to respect the rights and online safety of sex workers. so it’s all very well in us trying to regulate some of the huge harms being generated by digital capitalism, but we’ve got to look at the root of the problem, which is a profit-at-all-costs business model, driven by the accumulation and trade in our personal data to sell products. unless we address that, the problems will continue.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, how many times do we have to talk about the situation in hong kong? yet the saudi uae genocidal war on yemen hardly registers in here. why? because the us and the eu are facilitating it? you want to talk about violations of fundamental freedoms, yet the concentration camps on the us-mexican border don’t seem to exist. the us has illegally placed sanctions against about 40 countries, many supported by the eu. they are a violation of fundamental freedoms and rights of entire populations. who are china sanctioning? china has just sent 4 000 tons of wheat to syria, while eu sanctions are killing syrians. who is authoritarian? the countries that punish entire populations because their governments are independent of western influence, or the countries that provide a lifeline for these beleaguered countries so that millions don’t starve, die from preventable diseases or end up forced to become refugees? millions of people in afghanistan, iraq, iran, syria, yemen, mali, venezuela, cuba, nicaragua all see their lives destroyed. many of them see their lives destroyed by sanctions and actions of the transatlantic alliance. and you simply ignore these debts and repeatedly talk about hong kong, where, despite foreign interference and provocation, not one protester has been killed by the chinese authorities. what’s wrong with us? if the eu wants to be taken seriously, if they are to have any relevance on the international stage, we need to break the link with us imperialism and we need to start speaking the truth.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, her name was ashling, she was 23, and she went for a run last wednesday at 4 p.m. in a very public place and she was murdered. this horrendous crime has had a deep emotional, disturbing and upsetting resonance across ireland and europe. violence against women. the same violence against women we discuss in this chamber almost every plenary. and, as a woman, i’m sick of it because as i’ve said in this very spot in november, women in europe should be safe everywhere in europe, from one country to the next, in the home, workplace or on the street. in reality, the plague of violence against women across our world cannot be disassociated from the unfinished fight for equality. when it comes to sexual and reproductive rights and health, this too is unfinished and even regressing in some ways. supporting women’s bodily integrity and choice and sexual and reproductive health decisions is central to equality. and in fact, where these decisions are not a woman’s own, it is in effect violence against women. a world that continues to tolerate female genital mutilation, that doesn’t ensure universal access to sexual education. a world that refuses to recognise fatal foetal abnormalities and forces women to travel in the most harrowing of circumstances is a world where violent acts take place. and we must end it now. together, all of us can make a difference, men and women. this must be on the shoulders of men too; men and women working together. we can end it, we must end it. the price is too high for all of us, for a society. it is a societal responsibility as well as an individual responsibility. we must prioritise this. we must change this world to make it safe for women and men. together, we can do it.
madam president, for almost three years we have discussed sexual and reproductive rights and health in this house. just last month, we voted to strengthen our understanding of gender—based violence to include online violence. we’re definitely taking steps in the right direction now, but when we look at our communities across our european union, we have not done enough to protect women from harm in their own homes, their workplaces, schools or in their communities. as european representatives, we must understand that access to sexual and reproductive health is a human right. historically, these rights have not been enforced for women, as we can see from the endemic levels of gender—based violence, including coercive control, the practice of female genital mutilation, poor maternal health, access to appropriate health care, safe and affordable contraception, and age—appropriate sexual education. i could go on and on about the many ways we’ve failed to uphold women’s and girls’ human rights over decades. today, i think of our dear ashling. i think of fabiole, of nadine, of savita. just some of the women in ireland who died because we looked away, we failed to protect them properly or to uphold their rights under international law. they died, quite simply, because of their gender. they died because we here in the eu have not recognised that gender—based violence, femicide and dismissing women’s specific health needs are potentially lethal threats faced by half our population. half. it should not take the death of a woman, or women, telling their personal stories of violence and denigration to bring change. yet, time and time again, it takes tragedy to shock us into action. we must do better. i echo the words of our president metsola. we stand on the shoulders of women whose lives were cut short. we stand for them. we must end our silence on srhr.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, first and foremost, may i say at the outset i did very much welcome this process with regard to the committee of inquiry on the protection of animals during transport (anit) and the engagement that we had with outside bodies, ngos, science, research and just a broader consultation within this parliament itself. and throughout that debate i had a fundamental disagreement with many people on the committee, but at the same time, we all are collectively in here trying to address the same issue. and that’s to ensure that animal welfare is brought to the highest priority in the european union and also within member states. let us be under no illusions. there have been catastrophic failures by the european union and member states in the enforcement of regulation (ec) no 1/2005. we saw that recently with the ships the elbeik and the karim allah, for example, in the mediterranean. so, from that perspective, we do need to ensure that regardless of where these consultations and this report take us, in the meantime we have to ensure that regulation (ec) no 1/2005 is enforced, is vindicated and that the integrity of animal transport and the welfare of animals in transport is vindicated too, commissioner. so from that perspective, while we continue our consultations, while you consider your deliberations with regard to new regulations, we have to ensure that animal welfare is kept to the highest priority on everybody’s agenda. so from my perspective, and i say this honestly in this european parliament, this parliament should represent everybody. we shouldn’t be exclusively in favour of animal rights and against farmers, or for farmers and against animal rights. we fundamentally have the capacity in this particular chamber, and the commission and the council, to ensure that they can both work in tandem. i am very much in favour of ensuring the highest welfare standards of animals from birth right through to the fork. but at the same time, we can’t make theme parks or adventure parks out of our rural communities. so i honestly believe that if we work collectively, intelligently, base our decisions on science, base our decisions on research and base our decisions on the fact that people in rural communities across the entirety of the european union provide us every day with food, sustenance, maintaining the population. they rear their families. they live in rural communities, sustain those rural communities. so from that perspective, i urge everybody in this parliament, wherever the report takes us, wherever deliberations with the commission and the regulations that will come forward in 2023, ensure in the meantime that we enforce the standards that are there. and when we bring forward new regulations, we bring forward regulations that are based on the realities of what happened both in terms of animal welfare and what happens with regard to farmers and broader rural communities across the entirety of the european union. it can’t be a one-size-fits-all. it can’t be animal transport and animal rights against farmers and rural communities, or vice versa. we have the intelligence and the capacity, and the commission is obligated to bring forward regulations that are real, that are sincere, that take into account animal welfare in transport, and also sustaining agriculture, rural communities and farming communities.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, this eu year of youth is an opportunity for us as policymakers to connect with our younger citizens in shaping a respected and ambitious eu for our future. the european youth event (eye) last october, held in this very chamber, was an incredible launching pad for this eu year and the work by our rapporteur and my fellow colleagues. it afforded many of us the opportunity to listen and learn from our younger citizens about the issues they foresee ahead. the main focuses were climate change, access to education, opportunities to own or rent an affordable home, the devastation caused by this pandemic and access to the job market that’s not just focused on urban areas, but also incorporates rural communities. but with all this debate and dialogue of the eye, one common theme i heard was mental health. pressures and issues affecting the mental health of young people have increased because of this pandemic. we heard this from the rapporteur. we heard this from the vice-president. we even heard it from the council. we all know this. as both this resolution and the eu year are dedicated to empowering our youth, if we are truly to empower them, then the work we do collectively from this point must incorporate mental health. mental health is our next pandemic. refusing to accept this will affect the future of our union. we need to break the current pattern where we stigmatise mental health and yet mourn the loss of life due to it. we need to do this for our young people. we need to do this for our european union.
madam president, inflation is a continuing challenge now at the moment. the commission published its winter 2022 economic forecast last week, and it said that inflation will be around 3% for most of this year. of course, there are now the challenges with geopolitical tensions in ukraine and russia. now all eyes are on the ecb, but madame lagarde, i just want to bring your attention to the fact that in the event of there being a necessity to raise interest rates to address the issue of inflation, i want you to take into account the fact that we do not have uniform interest rates across the european union. and i do believe that the ecb and the european banking authority have an obligation to unleash the blockages that are causing significant difficulties for some countries in keeping interest rates low – and i significantly mention ireland itself, where the capital requirements and prudential obligations on our banks are looking at it through the prism of the last financial crisis. we have reduced our non-performing loans, our banks are in a healthy state, yet our obligations are based on historical facts. i would believe and urge that you should act on this in the event of interest rates having to rise, because this would have a profound impact on ireland and on other countries that have higher interest rates than the eu average.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. yes, there is no alternative to renewables. and it doesn't change that when you declare nuclear power and gas to be green energy. we need bold steps to expand renewables, and we need to do better than fossil fuels. we need an effective offshore strategy as a pillar of the fight against climate change, which creates good working conditions for the people who work there, which takes into account the preservation of the marine environment in every single technical solution. the harmony between the environment, nature and people is what it's all about. and the point is that we need to think beyond offshore locations, for example, just transition regions that could be considered in the manufacture of offshore assets. thinking together means thinking together and mobilising all the actors, not just the private ones. and i think, quite frankly, it's time to really rethink, to change our idea of politics and public service. the public sector is more than a guarantor of private profits, it is an equal player precisely because the market does not decide everything. we've seen this in the pandemic. it is time to put the common good at the centre of every decision, especially when it comes to renewable energy. there is too much at stake to allow this strategic sector to be taken over by the biggest corporations, because it really concerns us all.
madam president, the potential of offshore wind is recognized; offshore wind and ocean wind will become increasingly competitive energy sources. i would like to congratulate commissioner kadri simson on her very good strategy and my colleague, mr petersen, on his excellent report. as the report we are voting on tomorrow indicates, the price of energy will also fall as these renewable energy sources are developed and exploited. wind has doubled its share in the global energy mix over the last five years and the share of offshore capacity will increase in the next period due to the acceleration in key european markets of offshore projects that have recently become operational. but we need to develop new storage solutions, smart grids and establish a true european energy storage market as soon as possible to stimulate investment in new storage capacity. my country, romania, has access to the black sea and considerable potential for both fixed and floating wind installations and in this context i want to emphasise the still untapped potential of the black sea, the baltic sea or the mediterranean sea and remind the commission that we need, we need financial support from green deal, from fit for 55, from other funds, so that countries with access to these seas can increase their contribution of offshore wind to the energy mix. we need investment in infrastructure, in modern seaports, to accommodate larger turbines and components, to really reach the potential that we have.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, while we are tackling the complex energy transition, the problems of gas and its supply and the high energy bills with new and fully european proposals, we must, however, without hesitation, change course and take a decisive step in the new direction, which is represented, with our energy priorities, by renewable energy sources, the production of which we must greatly increase. offshore renewables certainly have a big role to play, considering that our continent is surrounded by seas and oceans. so we know that we will encounter and there will be, there already are, resistance for various reasons, including landscape reasons, but we have to overcome these resistance, with a lot of patience, with a lot of conviction, looking for the best and safest technical and environmental solutions, and there are. the offshore strategy has many strengths, alongside obviously critical points. i would like to recall some of them, which the commissioner has already mentioned. i am thinking of our research and technology capacity and our industrial capacity and the possibility of achieving greater cooperation between member states through interconnections.
mr president, i am all for the green deal, but when it comes to offshore wind farms, i say: think first, then do. because there is still a lot that is unknown about offshore wind turbines, for example the long-term effects on fish and fish stocks. for example, the construction of offshore wind turbines generates noise, and this adds up to 140 decibels. that's the equivalent of a fighter jet launching from 20 meters away. what does that do to the hearing of fish and fish stocks? we don't know. and then the birds and the migratory birds. what effect do offshore wind turbines have on migratory birds? we don't know. and then the cables that are being laid between the mills and the mainland. what are the electromagnetic effects of these cables on, say, fish species like sharks and rays? we don't know. and then there are the effects on the fisheries themselves. now, there is fishing between windmills, but nobody does that because the insurance premiums are way too high and you're always at risk of getting stuck somewhere. so building offshore wind farms is something that can only be done with the fishermen. otherwise the future of fish and fishermen is bleak. think of the leaves, the windmills' wheels. they're being buried now. they've been there for hundreds of years and they don't rot. in short: we have to think hard, we have to do thorough studies, because otherwise we don't know what kind of effects are going to occur. the unplanned deployment of offshore wind farms is an attack on creation.
madam president, i would like to thank you. securing the energy supply with renewable alternatives in the union will be crucial to reaching the 2030 climate targets. we are now voting on the strategy for marine energy production and we are sad to see too many new energy projects being stopped, not least in sweden. we see every day how projects to build offshore wind power are given a stop sign, while in this house we want to give the green light to fossil gas. it's all wrong. we need more renewable energy, and we need it now. more strategies like this are needed to expand renewable energy and strengthen europe's electricity grid. if we are going to solve the climate crisis together, we cannot be climate nationalists. we need to work together in europe to connect our electricity grid. a larger energy system with many interconnections increases security of supply, but it also allows for a higher use of renewable energy and makes renewable energy more competitive and profitable. so now voices are being heard in the swedish debate that instead of dismantling the common energy market and the electricity grid, each country should be able to fend for itself. this is harmful not only to european cooperation but also to climate action. i'm looking at you, left party. the recent game is nothing but climate nationalism and it is damaging our valuable work on the transition to more new energy in europe.
madam president, offshore energy is key to our climate plans. we’re fortunate that wind is a plentiful resource. this report from morten petersen is timely. more than 40 years ago, i visited denmark for the first time and i saw wind turbines around copenhagen harbour. i saw the future. sometimes it takes a while for the good things to arrive. many countries have harnessed ocean energy, but there is vast untapped potential. offshore wind is valuable, but we must better integrate this energy with our electricity demand. making green hydrogen will help, but so too will the european supergrid. the celtic interconnector between ireland and france is moving towards construction. but let’s connect the electricity grids of ireland with spain and portugal to better use this wind resource. that’s a project of common interest that i think everybody would buy into. but there’s also a nature angle on this. ‘it is a gift to nature’, as my colleague margrete auken says, because offshore wind farms can protect areas from bottom trawling. and i think that can be a good thing.
madam president, it was with great displeasure that i read and saw the european commission's wish that the extension of the 'green certificate' for another year be voted on in parliament. the certificate that is not effective, that does not work, that does not work in this situation, because vaccinated and unvaccinated people get sick, but the certificate that is discriminatory and that destroys and shrinks small and medium businesses, and that creates inequality, and that takes away freedoms. and this is not coming from a conspiracy theorist, this is coming from klaus schwab -- the man who is the chairman of the world economic forum, and who in his book, "covid-19: the great reset", predicts the destruction of national governments, of nation-states, and of the middle class. that's what this certificate does: it destroys businesses, it eliminates the middle class. i therefore call on you to reject the commission's request, to vote against the extension of this certificate and to adopt a document calling for its cancellation. because it's even more shameful the behavior of your darlings, like mr. trudeau, who calls protesters and those who fight for their freedom an "insignificant minority". when did minorities become insignificant? isn't this room fighting for the right of every green eucalyptus to be green or red or yellow or whatever? this is a disgrace and a disgrace, and it must be stopped.
madam president, two weeks ago, the parliament had its big afghan women day, focusing on the denial of access to education and work and, you know, it was grand to keep the focus on, and maybe it made us feel a bit better. but, you know, you can’t go to work or school if you’re starving or if you’re dead, and against the backdrop of the cataclysmic collapse of the afghan economy, in a bitterly cold winter where the world food programme is predicting that one million children will die of starvation in two months. against that backdrop, the us, the world’s most powerful economy, appropriates in broad daylight the resources of this, the world’s poorest country, and we say nothing. eur 7 billion in us banks belonging to the people of afghanistan. no emergency meetings. no statements from the high representative. no demands for international law to be upheld. no comment, even, on this colonial act of banditry. biden’s step will mean millions of afghans suffering and dying for a crime that had nothing to do with them. it makes me sick. shame on the us for its crimes against humanity, and shame on the eu for its complicity and silence.
madam president, the eu did well to negotiate the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) into existence but, sadly, the abrupt end of it represents a decline of multilateralism and a blow to the eu. since then, the eu has reacted poorly to the bullying by the americans, who seem determined to show that the eu is just a puppet of theirs. the americans didn’t just withdraw: they pressured other members of the jcpoa not to comply with their commitments. so, incredibly, we had a situation where the us were threatening to punish other members of the un if they complied with a un security council resolution. biden campaigned during the election on renewing the jcpoa. he could have issued an executive order as soon as he got elected, but he didn’t. was he pressured by the israelis? if the israelis are so worried about iran’s nuclear programme, why don’t they offer to give up their nuclear weapons in return for iran not having a nuclear programme? we need the eu now to work for the original jcpoa, not a restricted american version of it, and the eu should also work for a completely nuclear-free zone in west asia.
madam president, strengthening europe in the fight against cancer and the commission’s europe’s beating cancer plan are both very welcome initiatives, and of course, we should learn something from the pandemic, commissioner: your role and that of the commission and europe in general, pooling its resources, coming together to face a significant challenge. there’s nothing as significant as the challenges that we face in the area of cancer. we need to be able to prevent, we need to have the research, the innovation and the creativity behind that to assess the statistics. we need early detection, and we need diagnostics and treatment. the idea that a young child will not be diagnosed because of where they’re born or who they’re born to is something that is a failure, not only of member states and their policies, but equally of the european union itself. so i would urge that we would cooperate in the areas of prevention, in research and development and also in rare diseases, commissioner. i believe that, in the area of rare cancers, europe has a central role in bringing all member states’ health capacities together to ensure diagnosis and treatments for those with rare diseases. i commend the broad thrust of the report and the broader efforts of the commission in terms of europe’s beating cancer plan, but we must do a lot and it’s better to do it together.
madam president, much of eu economic activity in africa is mediated through the world bank and international monetary fund. funding comes with a range of conditionalities and often when the loans come due for payment these bodies are more than happy to insist on disastrous cuts to health and education programmes and neoliberal reforms that promote capital flight as the price of refinancing. the french pushed hard for gaddafi’s removal in 2011 because of the threat that his gold and silver reserves posed to the french colonial franc circulating as a prime african currency. any threat to colonial-era levels of control and systems of exploitation are opposed, whatever the cost. this is why china is a threat. their investment comes with less strings attached, their projects focus on public infrastructure and create more jobs, and they commonly reschedule and restructure debt repayments. china’s trade arrangements offer more opportunities for mutual gain. surely we should take lessons from china and less lessons from us imperialism and european colonialism.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. mr high representative of the commission! today is the day of unity in ukraine. what is this unity day about? that ukrainian society wants to go down the road of western democracy and that their government democratically elected president and government is leading the way. but of course, this society is not united in ukraine, let's be frank, and the ukrainian government desperately needs this support of western democracies at this moment through this unity day, because it is possible that someone in the kremlin believes that ukrainians should be freed from the hunt as it is often considered in unofficial versions, and brothers ukrainians defeating with other government. this is the moment when the course of ukraine needs this extended hand from western democracy - from us, from europeans. and that means that our leaders' declaration must also contain serious points about ukraine's path to europe being open to the european union. of course, it's not fast, but it is, and of course it should be, not just money, but also support [from] military equipment, or whatever you want to call it, or defensive weapons. there is also a very important question about the so-called non-violence issue. maybe the president of ukraine, even remotely, had the opportunity to speak in the european parliament this week, maybe not, but this non-violence policy, i think, shows that this outstretched hand is shaking a little bit, which is bad news for the ukrainian society. we will also be serious in the medium term about the change in energy policy, which is an extremely important issue very soon.
mr president, the apparent danger of military conflict on the russian-ukrainian border is the competition for the distribution of markets and influence between the united states, nato, the european union and russia. but neither side in the imperialist conflict represents the interests of the people. it is also a great shame that the european union has undermined the 'ring of peace' when it has led to wars in afghanistan, libya, syria and elsewhere. the american base in alexandroupolis, in northern greece, is becoming a center for the advance of american-eastern troops to encircle russia and bears the signature of the current and previous greek governments, which exposes the greek people to great dangers. the people's anxiety must be transformed into an independent struggle to clear all foreign bases, not to sign the new greek-american agreement, to return the troops from abroad; to disengage from the imperialist projects of the usa, nato, european union; to open the way to disengagement from all imperialist associations, with the people in power.
mr president, over an eight-year period, the world has witnessed a systematic, multifaceted russian policy of invading, destabilising and demonising ukraine. the reason is not that ukraine was a military threat to russia or that russian speakers were discriminated against. such claims are wrong. nor should we buy the argument that nato membership was such a threat. we know it is not our weapons, but it is the power of the values and the attractiveness of democratic societies that pose an existential threat to a repressive russian state structure behind whose potemkin facade anything goes. yesterday, putin left all options on the table. during the press conference with the german chancellor, he continued his obvious lie that a genocide was ongoing in the donbas. his interpretation of history deprives ukrainians of all features of statehood, claiming it was one people, one empire, one language, one church. no, mr putin, it is not. let us now be prudent. with the implementation of the minsk accord, let us not exert undue pressure on ukraine in order to appease russian claims. they cannot hand out hundreds of thousands of passports to the citizens of luhansk and donetsk and claim the recognition of these russian bantustans and, at the same time, demand that ukraine grant a special status to this region. ukrainians must stand together against the external threat, but they also need to put their internal divisions aside. now is not the time for nit-picking partisan infighting. join forces and implement the ambitious reform agenda that will one day make you an irresistible european country that enjoys all perspectives of a common future. we stand with ukraine.
mr president, mr high representative, commissioner, our relations with russia have been at a low point for a while. most political challenges at our external borders have directly or indirectly russia as a common denominator. the list of open issues is long: disinformation, hybrid threats, funding of anti-democratic forces in the eu, and foreign interference. but today, our primary focus should be ukraine. after an eight-year war with 14 000 victims, situation in and around ukraine evolved into a global threat. russia is also actively undermining ukraine’s democratic and socio-economic development for years through political and economic means, as well as through disinformation. so how can we best help ukraine in this crisis? despite the lack of progress, there is no alternative to continued talks. diplomacy is still the only credible way to avoid doomsday scenarios. meanwhile, the european union has to continue supporting ukraine, building deterrence, boosting ukraine’s economy and defence, and supporting reform processes as well. we should also work to increase the potential costs of russian aggressions by introducing sanctions against individuals, banks and companies involved in plans to attack ukraine. halting nord stream 2, in case of aggression, would increase our leverage while doing all of the above. ukraine is a sovereign country with internationally recognised borders that has a full right to decide on its geopolitical orientation. the ongoing crisis has shown once again that any local crisis in europe can turn into a global threat with possible deteriorating consequences. this should be an urgent call for the eu to enhance our own ability to respond quickly and in a unified way. while awaiting a much-needed comprehensive eu strategy towards russia, we stand with ukraine.
mr president, mr president, mr high representative, we have just heard speeches about the eu acting in a united and decisive manner, but despite these speeches it is clear to me that the eu is not acting in this crisis with all its might. nato is central to this crisis, and the eu is weakened by the fact that its six member states are outside nato. some of these member countries may still believe in neutrality, even though the facts no longer speak in favor of neutrality. some of them, on the other hand, hope that the eu is becoming a defence union, and even this hope is not supported by the facts. i therefore believe it would be very important, ladies and gentlemen, for nato to invite all the non-member eu member states to join. the fact is that putin has already made finland, for example, move very clearly towards nato. as you know, finland has been a close partner of nato for many years. it is essential that we show our unwavering support for ukraine, its sovereignty and territorial integrity in this situation. the west must remain united and show that it is serious about counter-action. sanctions must now also be imposed on putin and his inner circle, not to mention cooperation in the gas and nuclear sectors.
mr president, we’ve had three months of this farce now, and the line between the real and the imaginary is blurred. the us and uk have used the media to flood pages, screens and airwaves with a load of unsubstantiated fear-mongering and lies gleaned from unaccountable, anonymous sources in the intelligence community. this has reached such a pitch that when ukraine begs to the us and nato to stop creating hysteria and provide some proof for the supposedly imminent any day now russian invasion. ukraine is ignored by the forces that pretend to protect them. nato’s raison d’être is protecting western corporate interests and the interests of the military industrial complex. but it looks like now they’re also protecting the interest of us gas and oil. the warmongering of nato and the us these past few months has done nothing for peace in europe, and the role played by nato think tanks like the atlantic council was not good. people who want peace in europe should be calling for nato to be abolished.
madam president, let us be clear what military aggression by russia against ukraine means. it means the instant international isolation of the russian federation. it means political isolation. it means economic isolation for the russian federation, and we all know that isolation brings poverty. it means poverty for the people of russia. for 20 years, the rule of mr putin has led the people of russia down. today, the average salary in russia is smaller than the average salary in any of the 27 member states of the union. today, life expectancy in russia is shorter than life expectancy in any of the 27 member states of the union, and the media in russia are much less free than the media in the european union. people in russia today are living in worse conditions than the people of the european union: this is the truth. it needs to be told. and an aggression will mean an immediate worsening of the living conditions in russia. people will be poorer very soon. we do not want this to happen, but this is what will inevitably happen if russia invades ukraine. we also need to find ways to talk to the citizens of russia. we need a plan, and this belongs in the strategic compass of the european union to tell the people of russia why democracy, freedom of the press, rule of law are good for them, and why peace is the first condition for prosperity. and for us, dear colleagues, defending ukraine means defending ourselves. we can only live in safety inside the borders of the european union if we are surrounded by safe neighbours. we can only be safe within the borders of the eu if ukraine is safe. defending ukraine means defending europe and defending the european union.
madam president, vladimir putin is definitely blowing hot and cold. we feared an invasion this morning, today; the opposite seems to be happening: the kremlin is now announcing the withdrawal of some of its troops. be careful. the future will tell us if there is really de-escalation. meanwhile, vladimir putin has been running the clocks, the agenda and the tempo for weeks, while the ukrainian economy is on its knees. i only have a minute. the european union must take its geopolitical ambitions beyond slogans: be firm in the name of all and of each, put together its package of sanctions and move forward on this common defence. we also, of course, owe this unfailing solidarity above all to the ukrainian people, who are paying a heavy price for their freedom. i remember, mr high representative, as if it were yesterday, president viktor yushchenko in our orange-bottomed chamber in strasbourg. you were the president of the european parliament at the time. it was 2005. i quote: 'the frontiers of europe and freedom go as far as odessa and kiev. other i quote: 'it was 18 years ago, and europe was babbling, but how much longer?' i have concluded, madam president. let there be no mistake, it is our union, our dna, our values and our peace that are at stake here.
madam president, i would like to thank you. regardless of how the current situation in ukraine ends, we must take the threat of russian aggression seriously. the use of threats of violence by russia as a means of diplomatic pressure is unacceptable, regardless of the extent to which the threat is actually implemented. russia's actions undermine international law and the european security order. although the threat to ukraine is the main thrust of the policy, the aim is to exert influence over all russia's neighbours. if putin intends to divide the eu, we must show that it has the opposite effect, that it brings the eu countries closer together and creates a security policy unity. it is the basis for increased resistance to putin's imperialist claims to power. european solidarity with the self-determination and firm resolve of the ukrainian people is the way forward for europe. joint sanctions against russia and efforts to support ukraine are crucial. i repeat, a threat of violence is a serious breach of the rules-based world order, regardless of the extent to which the threat is actually carried out. if your neighbor comes up to you and waves a gun at you and threatens you, it's a crime, even if the gun doesn't fire.
madam chairman, allow me to quote. quote: "no treaty with russia is worth the paper it's written on". don't hope that once you've taken advantage of russia's weakness, you'll be able to reap the dividends forever. the russians will always come back, and when they do, don't expect the agreements you signed to justify you. that's why with the russians, it's worth playing fair or not playing at all. i'll leave you to guess who that quote is from. it's from a great european, but half of you will flinch at the mere mention of his name. but he was right anyway. on november 5th, 1994, in budapest, a treaty was signed that guaranteed, should guarantee the territorial integrity of ukraine in exchange for giving up nuclear weapons. by then, ukraine was the third-largest nuclear power in the world. you see how much this contract costs, and russia is a party to it. why is that? because the european leadership today is incompetent, toothless, clumsy and doesn't know what to do. because european leaders go to separate negotiations, because european leaders cannot, do not know how to work out a position to defend and defend. half of them talk about energy independence, but the other half are just running their own pipes because it's good for their economy. this is not how it's going to work, and this is not how it's going to work, your honor. i mean that in all seriousness. what each and every one of you should know is that the way politics is being done right now is wrong. mr. borel, you're talking about unity right now. what unit, mr. borel? every european leader goes and negotiates separately unity does not exist. don't lie to each other, let's not lie to each other. i hear some people trying to say "glory to ukraine!" quietly, to get on the list of speakers. ukraine needs a serious partnership, a serious support and an economy, not empty talk, declarations and a game of jackals.
madam president, we all want to prevent the fire. we all want to prevent this leap forward which endangers european security. of course, we all agree that even a limited aggression against ukraine would justify a strong and common political and economic response from europe. we should all also agree that among the great powers that are adding fuel to the fire, it is not only russia, but this is hard to hear. action must therefore be taken to prevent this catastrophe, without ukraine being threatened or destabilised. this implies applying the minsk agreements, as france and germany have repeatedly requested in the normandy format. but it also means - i am sorry to say - that for the moment ukraine is not joining nato, because it has become clear that ukraine's joining nato would be a factor in war; it is not responsible to ignore it by sweeping away russia's objections. i repeat, and you all know it: unlike the united states, russia remains and will remain on the european continent. as chancellor scholz and president macron said yesterday, there can be no european security without russian security.
madam president, for years, we have tried to avoid any kind of conflict with moscow, but we can’t anymore. this is not the time for speculation or cheap political talk. putin has made his intentions clear to ukraine, to europe and to the world. he insists that diplomatic options are still on the table, but his troops are prepared for the invasion of an independent nation. negotiating with tanks and with a gun to our heads is not negotiating. it is blackmailing. make no mistake, the target is ukraine, but we, the european union, are the goal. the threat is there, it is now, and it is a real one. the only question that we have to answer is: what are we going to do about it? do we stand down? are we going to be prisoners of a dictator or do we unite, put our political difference aside and stand together against this act of aggression? rather than being afraid, let’s hold our heads high and make him understand that he will never divide us. last, i don’t want to forget that yesterday a new trial began against alexei navalny. please remember that today, more than ever, navalny represents russia’s hope. let’s not condemn russia to suffer a dictatorship forever.
madam president, for years, russia has been keeping their military in ukraine, georgia and moldova against the will of the governments of those countries, thereby impeding the normal development of these countries. also, in the current situation where russia has surrounded ukraine with its military, carries a purpose that ukraine itself should not be able to decide on its future. russia’s goal is to get ukraine into its sphere of influence. it wants ukraine to give up its path towards the eu and nato. so far, ukraine has managed to endure, despite the huge pressure. democratic western countries should not make things more difficult for ukraine. this means that we must remain with the ukrainians by supporting them every way we can. it means also a physical presence in ukraine. above all, we must maintain a strong and visible diplomatic presence in ukraine. the continuous and high-level presence of democracies in kyiv and in other parts of ukraine is of essence, especially these days.
madam president, ukraine, a word ironically originating from the slavic word for ‘borderland’. as tensions rise along its borders with russia, activities close to ukraine’s border with belarus are an ominous reminder we are, all of us, citizens of a world where the threat of nuclear knows no borders. footage aired last week showing the chilling sight of ukrainian military undertaking ammunition training in pripyat, a now abandoned city in ukraine, once home to workers of the chernobyl nuclear plant, just one kilometre from the border with belarus. troops crept around empty apartments, an abandoned library, along quiet school playgrounds, all in sight of chernobyl – scene of the world’s worst nuclear accident, where today huge tanks store radioactive waste in the aftermath of that ongoing tragedy. there is no safe way to store nuclear waste, and disturbing those dumps could have catastrophic impacts on humankind and the environment that crosses multiple borders with the message, when it’s too late, that peace must always be the ultimate goal.
mr president, the youth of europe have not been adequately represented or heard during the covid-19 pandemic. it is now time for europe to do more for young people, and the european year of youth provides the perfect opportunity to make up for this lost time, because it’s estimated that one in six europeans are between the ages of 15 to 29. this generation has sacrificed so much during the pandemic. now, giving them new hope, strength and confidence in the future by highlighting how europe can better their lives, will be crucial to the long-term viability of our union. but the european year of youth must be more than a listening exercise. it must be a priority to encourage all young people, especially those with fewer opportunities, from disadvantaged backgrounds, from rural and remote areas, or belonging to vulnerable groups, to become active citizens and actors for positive change. it is our duty to promote opportunities provided by eu policies for young people to support them in their personal, social and professional development. housing, which is a huge issue for young people, as well as pensions, jobs, mental health, which is another huge issue, gender-based violence and climate change – these are all affecting young people. we must now seek to build a europe they see for themselves. europe has always provided hope and opportunity, and the european year of youth is time to reinvigorate and strengthen the sense of optimism. we must ensure that programmes such as erasmus+, discovereu, euroscola and the european youth event be promoted and expanded further to reach as many as of our young people as possible. young people are not only the future, but are the present. it’s time to listen and take action.
mr president, i’m grateful that our parliament has approached the topic of one youth, one europe horizontally. colleagues across the political house have spoken on how our young people are impacted by culture, employment, women’s rights, budgetary decisions – the list goes on. this is how we must approach our work on youth, by considering all aspects of policy and the impact those policies make, not just for today but for their future tomorrow. when our young people think of the eu, they think of freedom to travel. they think of work and study, our shared culture, human rights, climate change. they have ambition for our project. earlier today, i spoke to harry mccann, a young pro-european from ireland, and he shared that, throughout the covid-19 pandemic, the landscape of his fellow young citizens has been one of confusion and uncertainty. and through the conference on the future of europe, the european youth event, the european youth forum and the eu-wide organisations, we have heard time and time again that we must support the mental health and wellbeing of our young people. we must break the cycle where we stigmatise mental health yet mourn the dramatic effects of it. we cannot ignore mental health. we must deliver stronger mental health measures and messages for our young people. i ask that we continue in supporting our young citizens with an eu year focusing on their mental health and wellbeing in 2023. let’s continue our work with young people and create a better future – a one europe.
mr president, climate change and gender equality are inextricably linked. ensuring a more positive green future is a daunting task, and as women know better than most, let’s use the occasion of the commission on the status of women in 2022 to highlight that women can help to get us towards that more positive green future and out of the situation we are in at present. climate change has a differential effect, as we know, based on geography, socio—economic background and, of course, gender. women are disproportionately impacted by the effects of climate change. women who farm, tending crops to feed their family, may soon be no longer viable, resulting in malnutrition. and of course there’s the question of women’s representation, as we saw at cop26. there is also the issue of domestic violence, which often comes about after conflict, as a result of shortages caused by climate change. ignoring women is doing a disservice. it is really robbing us of a better future, robbing society, because we know that women can be powerful agents of change at community level and right up to the top leadership, resolving conflicts and bringing people together. we need to utilise all those skills. we know that sectors in which the majority of workers are women are generally more carbon neutral. we need to invest in that seriously – take the care economy, for example. and we know that there is a huge economic potential in involving women in the green transition. we need to gain from that. let’s not just ‘blah blah blah’ when it comes to climate change and gender equality, let’s take action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tonight we want to show that the results of the negotiations between parliament and the council on the road toll issue have fallen short of our expectations. this is a much less ambitious text than at first reading in october 2018. four years later, the polluter-pays and user-pays principles are virtually absent from the subscriber base. the external costs of road transport, i.e. air and noise pollution, are hardly taken into account. do we need to remind you of the climate emergency and the 800,000 premature deaths every year from air pollution? do i have to remind you that this road fee leverage would allow us to invest in more trains, more rail freight and more clean transport? because yes, more trains and cleaner mobility is also good for jobs. if it's good for the climate, it's good for the job. my dear colleagues, we have a responsibility tomorrow. some amendments are bold. we will raise our heads and ensure that this parliament meets the demands of the climate challenge, but also the demands, i tell you, of our perspective in transport.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. let me give you an example. from verona to munich, one of europe's most important transport routes runs through the alps, through the brenner pass. this road is used by 2.5 million lorries and 11 million cars a year. 54 million tonnes of goods are transported here every year, three quarters of them by truck, a quarter by rail. and a quarter of these trucks only go over the burner because the toll there is cheaper than through switzerland, where the road would be 100 kilometres shorter on average. but in switzerland, on the gotthard transversal, the modal mix is exactly the opposite of the burner. and that's simply because the railroad is built there and the road is paved higher. we, the european union, are currently building a new rail link on the brenner. total cost of the line: well over 20 billion euros. we pay half of it from our eu budget. do you really think the rules we're waving here will bring about a shift to this new track? i'm not going to. there will be no surcharges on tolls, no compulsory internalisation of environmental costs, there will be a right of veto of the states on corridor tolls, there will be general exemptions for concessionary states, tolls for modern lorries. the transfer will not take place. then we poured 20 billion into a project that's not being used because the road is cheaper. people along the line will continue to suffocate in traffic, and the tunnel will be empty. and that's exactly why this directive is a bad directive, a product of national particular interests.
the president, at first, was a eurovignette with the gealladh. the eurovignette guidelines are now being updated to reflect the importance of the health of citizens. first, we should ensure that the costs of transport are fair and that the benefits are equitable, and that the costs of air pollution and climate change are borne by the public. ar an dara dul síos, caithfimid bogadh ar shiúl or iompar de bhóthar agus bogadh i dtreo modhanna inbhuanaithe. the film is based on the novel by the same name by the writer, the director, and the screenwriter, the director, and the director. august the chair, there are still some things to improve. august is sin, chun votáil i bhfabhar in the leasuithe faoi uasmharcáil. it would be a lease to be like a house in ballstat and a home in fadhbanna praghsála. but i can't help supporting laws in the lease and in the amarach.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the death penalty is also irrevocable in iran. at least 275 people were executed last year. iran executes the most people per capita in the world, even people who are just demanding their basic freedoms and rights. false confessions are extracted under severe torture, leading to unlawful executions. there is no empirical evidence that the death penalty is a deterrent. on the contrary, the research shows otherwise. between 2009 and 2020, iran has executed at least 67 juvenile offenders. 85 juvenile offenders are currently on death row. in iran, the death penalty is still used against lgbtq people. media reports suggest that two men were recently executed and although this has not been confirmed by sources in iran, it has happened before. i hope this is fake news, of course, but the country has enforced these kinds of sentences. there is no humane way to execute a human being. there are only brutal methods and more brutal methods. in iran, hanging is the method of execution. unlike other countries, which use advanced devices to break the neck by hanging, iran uses simple devices that cause death by strangulation. the victim may be tortured for up to 20 minutes before the moment of death. this summer i negotiated the european parliament's resolution on the swedish citizen ahmadreza djalali sentenced to death in iran. again, he must be released immediately so he can return to his family. the death penalty is based on a medieval human view. the humanist ideals of the enlightenment contributed to the abolition of the death penalty in europe, and a majority of the world's states have turned their backs on it for good. i hope iran is prepared to do the same. until iran imposes a moratorium on the death penalty, i would urge the eu to develop targeted sanctions against iranian government officials involved in the execution of the death penalty. it's time for djalali to come home.
author. – mr president, in 2021, at least 275 people were executed in iran, including two child offenders and 10 women. in iran, the death penalty is used as a political tool that not only punishes those who have been sentenced to capital punishment, but also those who advocate for its abolition. it’s the case of narges mohammadi, who has recently been sentenced to another eight years in prison, or nasrin sotoudeh, the recipient of the sakharov prize in 2012, who was sentenced to 33 years and six months in prison in 2019. i would like also to stress that we continue to ask for the freedom of djalali, as this parliament already recalled in the past. today, we call again on iran to fulfil its international obligations by abolishing the death penalty and implementing its human rights commitments. we also urge the immediate release for all unjustly jailed human rights defenders. as we speak, crucial negotiations are undergoing in vienna to revive the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa). even if the scope of these talks do not include a dialogue on the situation of human rights in iran, the two are deeply interlinked. a successful negotiation of the jcpoa will provide the basis for the peace and development needed for a more stable country that over time improves the prospects for all iranian citizens who, we shouldn’t forget, have been the most affected by covid and the economic sanctions. we need more dialogue with iran, not less. the eu and other actors have already adopted a number of sanctions against individuals and entities responsible for human rights violations in iran. exercising further pressure has to go hand in hand with general political engagement, as some groups in this parliament are advocating for. and this will, in a certain moment, help us as well to improve the situation of human rights in the country. the eu should continue to monitor and raise human rights matters in the context of the eu—iran high—level dialogue and reiterate that respect for human rights is a core component in advancement of eu—iran relations. it is in our interest to support the talks, to return to the jcpoa, also to have more leverage to improve the human rights situation in the country.
author. – mr president, over political divisions here in the european parliament, we raise our voice in defence of the iranian people. since 1988, the massacre, there are ongoing crimes against humanity. we speak about the so-called death penalty, but what kind of penalty is that? in many cases it is just extra-judiciary crime and simply swift executions without even the pretence of judicial or court proceedings. words are not enough. our action is needed because what we see in iran – also with financing of terrorists outside and meddling in the region and even in our territories – requires our action and very strong sanctions.
it’s not allowed, according to the rules, to show pictures during your speaking time here.
a writer. the commission is not as the president of the iranian delegation, i cannot help but raise my voice against the death penalty in iran, because the death penalty abolishes all human rights. it should be banned, and it should be banned everywhere: in iran, in china, where the death penalty is the most common, in egypt, in the united states, in the whole world. as a member of the european parliament, i am proud that such a penalty has been abolished in the eu, that we do not have it. and as a german -- let me say this -- with a long history of human rights abuses in my country, i appreciate that very much. we are deeply concerned about the human rights situation in iran and stand firmly with the families of the victims. every year hundreds of people are executed, women, young people. we are concerned about the eu-double-states, where we have protested a lot but achieved nothing. we are worried about nasrin sotudeh, about the many political prisoners. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. iran is one of the most heavily sanctioned countries in the world. and what did it bring? i didn't say anything. it is much more important to support civil society vigorously, not allow double standards in politics, support people in iran with medicines in the face of the new covid-19 wave and not reject them in a hard-hearted way. the dialogue is also important, and we as the european parliament have a special responsibility in this respect. yes, it is a difficult path, and at times it seems pointless. and yet he must go, because the people of iran need open doors. even if we beat them, the hardliners will win for years to come. i don't want to do this!
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam commissioner, i would first like to recall that our institutions are committed to promoting the abolition of the death penalty worldwide. there is therefore no justification for the death penalty, especially in iran, which remains the country with the highest execution rate in the world: more than 250 people were executed in iran last year. the iranian judicial system is a real trap for human rights defenders, who are arrested, detained in inhumane conditions, tortured and charged in sham trials for acts against national security, propaganda against the regime, or simply for calling for respect for rights and an end to human rights violations. we also had to take into account the situation of the families of these defenders, who too often are themselves threatened and placed under surveillance. iran is also the country where a high number of minors are sentenced to death, which is also in total violation of the obligations imposed by the convention on the rights of the child. once again, we in this house continue to call for the release of a number of prisoners who are currently in prison or facing the death penalty: narges mohammadi, president of the ngo defenders of human rights center, who is fighting for the abolition of the death penalty, but also all journalists, activists and opponents who continue to suffer the injustices of the iranian regime today. i will of course mention djalali, the swedish-iranian professor at vub, but also nasrin sotoudeh, our sakharov prize winner, whom we have welcomed on several occasions by videoconference and whose conviction we are calling for to be quashed.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, it has been said: the reality of the death penalty in iran is dramatic, being at the head of the countries in the world with the highest executions. we can say that men, women, children, no one escapes the death penalty in iran; children wait until they are of age to be executed. i also believe that the death penalty in iran must be linked to the situation of justice, to the trials in which they are convicted. they are convicted by courts that lack independence, impartiality, with clear interference from the ministry of intelligence. they're condemned without the right, even, to a lawyer of their choice. and the lawyers who defend them are then persecuted, like nasrin sotoudeh. in these conditions, the courts become executioners and the death penalty becomes executions and murders. women do not escape this persecution. we must also point out the repression in which they live: today they can be sentenced to death if they exercise their sexual and reproductive rights or their right to abortion. i would like to say that the european union must clearly strengthen this dialogue for the abolition of the death penalty, making it clear that the right to life is a fundamental right. it's not negotiable, it's not a bargaining chip on any trading table. respect for life is the fundamental pillar on which any international dialogue must be based.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the human rights record of the iranian regime is appalling. the death penalty is one of the cruellest manifestations of this. despite repeated calls from the international community, the authorities keep carrying out death sentences with an average of around one per day in 2021. the country is one of the few in the world that executes minors and juvenile offenders in clear violation of international law. the number of executions of citizens belonging to minorities, especially baloch, kurds, arabs and baháʼí, is disproportionately high. and the death penalty in iran is, to a large extent, an instrument to intimidate, persecute and try to eradicate any kind of political opposition in the country. i call once again on the iranian authorities to release all political prisoners and all prisoners of conscience. the situation has only worsened since ebrahim raisi took power last june, with executions rising to 271 – 11 of them women. no wonder, given his well-documented role in the 1988 massacre and in the brutal suppression of the november 2019 protests. the culture of impunity has been prevailing in the country for too many decades. iranian society deserves justice and reparation, and they also deserve to live in a free, inclusive and democratic country that respects human rights and dignity.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, of course i condemn the death penalty in iran, but i also condemn it in china, in egypt, in saudi arabia, the united states and the 18 countries where the death sentence was carried out in 2020. i condemn it in the 54 countries which imposed a death sentence in that year, and areas like taiwan and qatar, which reintroduced the practice. so why are we talking about iran? it isn’t the main country where executions are carried out. in an overall sense, the numbers have been falling. there’s a discussion in the country about changing the islamic republic’s penal code, where it’s the family of the victim who decides. and do you really think that some of the racist and geopolitical commentary that has been heard this morning is going to help that discussion inside of iran? it’s a bit of a coincidence that this is being discussed at the same time as efforts to revise the jpcoa. if we’re really concerned about iranians dying we need to stand up for the original terms of that agreement to stop the sanctions, which are also a death sentence on iranians. and while you’re at it, you might consider the irony of including a motion here about giving out about iran’s courts and trials, and you give this platform to iván duque, where they gun people down in the streets without even a trial in the first place.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members. the eu has a strong, unequivocal and long-standing opposition to the death penalty in all times and in all circumstances, and aims at its universal abolition. the death penalty is a cruel and inhumane punishment, which fails to act as a deterrent to crime and represents an unacceptable denial of human dignity and integrity. the eu follows the human rights situation in iran very closely, and the current pace of executions in the country is a matter of concern, with more than 200 individuals executed every year, including juvenile offenders, dissidents and protesters. the eu’s policy approach towards iran is also well known. it is a balanced and comprehensive policy approach, with a view to addressing all issues of concern. this includes, of course, the use of the death penalty, which is regularly addressed in the exchanges with the iranian authorities. the situation of juvenile offenders at risk of execution in iran requires the most urgent attention. we strongly and publicly condemned the execution of arman abdolali last november. he was 17 at the time of the alleged offence. we continue to urge iran to respect its international obligations under the international covenant on civil and political rights and the convention on the rights of the child, which prohibit, in absolute terms, the imposition of the death penalty for crimes committed by persons aged under 18 years at the time of the alleged offence. the use of the death penalty against political dissidents and protesters is also a matter of great concern. we continue to urge the iranian authorities to guarantee the full range of fundamental rights for their citizens, irrespective of religion, belief or any other status, including the right to assemble and to express grievances in a non-violent manner. fundamental rights, such as freedom of opinion and expression, must always be respected. we also believe that it is imperative for the iranian authorities to uphold the due process rights of the accused individuals and ensure that those who are under any form of detention or imprisonment are not subject to any form of mistreatment. i know many of you vividly remember the case of the iranian wrestler navid afkari. since 2021, the eu has adopted restrictive measures related to violations of human rights, extended ever since on an annual basis currently until 13 april 2022. these measures consist of a travel ban and an asset freeze and a ban on exports to iran of equipment which might be used for internal repression and of equipment for monitoring telecommunication. in addition, eu citizens and companies are forbidden from making funds available to the listed individuals and entities. the list now comprises a total of 89 individuals and four entities. in line with its traditional stance in multilateral fora, including the un, the eu will spare no effort to urge the iranian authorities to pursue a consistent policy towards the abolition of capital punishment, and we will also continue to publicly condemn the death penalty, in particular for juvenile offenders, protesters and dissidents. the eu will continue to address, as appropriate, all issues of concern with the iranian authorities as part of its balanced and comprehensive engagement with iran.
author. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, in less than two years west africa has known four coup d'état. this reflects the political challenges the countries in the region are coping with. next to the effect on the local economy, the life of citizens and the institutional stability, this deteriorating situation creates a breeding ground for terrorists and extremist organisations that are already active across the sahel region. this morning, we have heard the official announcement of president macron about the coordinated departure of french troops and their european allies from mali. although we cannot predict the consequences of this decision, as a security partner to africa we should be cautious not to allow the extremists to take upper hand in the region. in this light, i express my concern about the recent coup d'état in burkina faso. i call on the military leadership to continue working on the transition process and to return to a democratic system with respect for constitutional order. i also call for the immediate release from house arrest of president kaboré. the protection and safety of civilians is one of the key tasks of any government. human rights should be respected. the authorities in burkina faso play a crucial role in combating terrorist organisations and in facilitating the work of humanitarian organisations. in both aspects, the country benefits from close partnership with the international community. today, the eu–african summit starts in brussels, and i call on the leaders to reconfirm their commitment to the security of the african continent and work together on the common challenges.
author. madam president, madam commissioner, the coup d'état of 24 january in burkina faso is taking place in a tense regional context, characterised by the continuing deterioration of security in the sahel. burkina faso is indeed the country that has suffered the most from the exceptional increase in the number of terrorist attacks. in recent years, the data is overwhelming. just think of the 7,000 victims, including 3,000 civilians, the displacement of over 1.5 million people, and the closure of over 3,000 schools in the region. it is not surprising that tensions have only increased in the country. the people of burkina faso are tired of the continuing lack of security and stability. like other countries in the sahel region, it is very disillusioned with the electoral system, governance and the presence of foreign forces, which it considers ineffective in addressing the security problems in the region. we must therefore insist, through this resolution, on giving priority to political development, without which it will not be possible to return to a situation of stability, but also to confidence in the institutions. first, we demand the immediate release of president roch marc kaboré, before any discussion with the authorities. secondly, the entire international community, including the external action service and the european commission, will need to commit to engage with the burkinabé authorities to ensure a swift and peaceful transition from military to civilian government, guaranteeing a return to constitutional order, stressing the importance of prioritising the implementation of a new electoral process based on the principles of inclusion and transparency. burkina faso will need to embark on the path of inclusive dialogue that brings together civil society on the basis of a shared vision for the democratic development of the country. respect for human rights must be a priority in any discussion, and we must encourage the national coordination for a successful transition, composed of seven civil society organisations, to oversee the authorities in place for the development of the country. clearly, the state of democracy in several west african countries is a matter of concern. we are called upon to contribute, through our political commitment, to a deep reflection on how to encourage democratic processes in the region, by ensuring that human rights organisations can play a very active role in this.
author. – madam president, as, today and tomorrow, leaders of africa and the eu meet to discuss the way forward in eu—africa relations, we in this parliament have to regret and condemn again a coup d'état in an african country, this time in burkina faso. three western african states, burkina faso, guinea and mali, are now led by officers who came to power by the use of force. there have been more successful coups in africa in the first two years of the 2020s than in the whole previous decade. this trend should worry us all. the underlying reason behind ouagadougou coup is a growing insecurity caused by the jihadist insurgency in the north, which the government failed to contain, and indeed putting an end to terrorism in the country and in the whole sahel region is a priority. but burkina faso is facing multiple crises resulting from the compounding effects of deep poverty, food insecurity, conflict, forced displacements, climate change, poor governance and equal access to basic services. focusing only on security concerns will not pull the country out from its deep crisis. the fact that the president kaboré’s overthrow was rather met with contempt by a majority of the population does not make it a better kind of coup. soldiers claiming to be better fit than civilians to take political decisions is never the right answer. the coup has to be rightly condemned, and we have to insist on the immediate release of president kaboré, a swift return to civilian government, and the fact that the interim government respect its international commitments, notably as regards human rights, while also facilitating the work of humanitarian organisations. apart from that, we will have to react with a kind of principled pragmatism that can contribute to stabilising the country. we have join the economic community of west african states (ecowas) and the african union in demanding that the new government provides, with the shortest delay possible, a roadmap for a return to the constitutional order. we need to receive solid guarantees of that and, if we get them, we have to engage and maintain dialogue, as the resolution proposes, to make sure the new authorities live up to their promises. otherwise, we might end up having the same situation as in mali, where the regime made similar pledges after the coup yet it ended up hardening their stance, resorting to russian help and postponing the return to democracy. this would be a bad outcome for the burkinabé population, but also for the region at large.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, teachers murdered because they taught in french rather than in arabic, or because they taught secular rather than quranic courses: this is what has become of burkina faso, which is under attack by islamist terrorism. in addition, the persecution of christians, who make up more than 20% of the population, and the increasing recruitment of children by terrorist groups justify the inclusion of burkina faso in the un annual report on children and armed conflict. an entire generation is thus about to be deprived of education and, to put it mildly, of a future, in addition to the 1.3 million or so internally displaced persons. this is all sad; but whose fault is it? france has been carrying out a courageous and exhausting large-scale counter-terrorism operation in the sahel since 2014. barkhane will have cost the lives of 58 of our sons, not to mention the many wounded, victims of the cowardly bomb attacks favoured by the terrorists. all this to counter the hateful obsession of populations heated to a crisp by social networks and the staggering ingratitude of the malian ruling junta. the future will tell if the attitude of the burkinabe lieutenant colonel, who was declared president yesterday, will be appropriate. the attacks in benin on tuesday 8 and thursday 10 february, the perpetrators of which were neutralised in burkina faso, have confirmed that the destabilisation of that country risks setting the whole of west africa on fire. france will therefore have to reconfigure its military apparatus following its withdrawal from mali. the european union and its member states, who are clearly not interested in helping the eu in this dangerous task, will at least have to make sure that they do not blow on the coals by adding political deadlock to the security chaos.
i would also like to support the motion for a resolution concerning burkina faso. all this debate that is going on here clearly shows that this is not just a problem of a particular military coup, although we rightly condemn it and call for a return to democracy and peaceful dialogue between the newly installed military government and the population, but it clearly shows the desperation in which this country is found, in huge economic problems. it was also said that this is not just a problem of this country, but of the whole region, of the whole sahel. the fourth military coup in this region, in this part of west africa, in recent times, the huge increase in islamic radicalism, fundamentalism -- these are the problems that are weighing on this region, this region, and leading to tragedies like the 1.5 million people in burkina faso who have lost their homes in the last few years and are essentially refugees in their own country. it's hard to find a solution to such a huge social and economic disaster. we can help to find a way to democracy, we can participate in that dialogue, but obviously the main thing we can help with is economic aid, so that at least the people who are leaving the countryside of burkina faso, which is increasingly being displaced also due to ecological and natural changes, so that at least these people do not suffer the worst kind of hunger. it is not an easy solution, it is a real tragedy and the commission and the eu in general need to think about how to help the region more. but again, it's not just the departure of the soldiers who, despite the protests of the population, it must be said, seized power a few weeks ago.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, a few years ago here in the european parliament, meps put aside their political divisions to discuss informally possibilities for really bad scenarios in burkina faso, as a potential place of changes in the sahel. unfortunately, covid exacerbated this situation. now we have a coup d’état but there is still a path to improve this situation. we join the african union and ecowas in appeals to a return to constitutional order, but obviously many changes should be done also in the mode of our support to burkina faso’s people and to the security of the country and the region. unfortunately, burkina faso is not present, as many as other coup d’état countries of the region, during this summit, but still we have to find a solution and we await the report from the high representative / vice-president as soon as possible.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, the new coup leader in burkina faso was trained by the americans, so was the 2015 one, and so was the one the year before. eight successful coups in the region since 2008 were by us- and eu-trained soldiers: eu capacity-building in action. billions have been wasted militarising these societies, while the boot of neocolonialism stays pressed hard, like the cfa franc and crushing world bank and imf neoliberal reforms. this is how to spread violence and to promote the militias. as director-general of the eu military staff, admiral bléjean, admitted at a meeting of the subcommittee on security and defence recently, if governments fail to provide welfare to the population, this creates a space for insurgents to provide care and infrastructure, and so claim legitimacy in the eyes of the locals. there is no military solution. the sooner we let go of the colonial noose, stop flooding the place with arms and start talking to the militias, we might have some chance. there is no other way.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that the european union protects original products and thus prevents some new products from taking advantage of old, original, genuine indigenous products. usually these new products try to be as similar as possible to the original product in order to deceive people as easily as possible, as mrs. bizzotto said. but let's look at the arguments. the prosecco, not the prosecco, but the prosecco, is a wine that not only, as mr. flego said, is mentioned in 1840, but even in the book "the dalmatian way" published in 1774. so, 248 years ago, then. so it's not a new product that wants to take advantage of the name prosecco. besides, as we've already heard, prosecco is a sparkling wine, a light wine. the prashek is a dessert wine, a sweet wine. so, two completely different products. the average annual production is only 200 hectolitres, sold almost exclusively locally. so these are facts that simply give the peat all the rights to be recognized, to be protected, like all other indigenous products.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i thank you for this discussion, and the commission services will abide by the current eu rules and the analysis of the croatian application concerning the traditional term ‘prosek’. the commission will base its final decision to protect or reject the term ‘prosek’, taking into consideration all available information, the eu legislation and the jurisprudence of the european court of justice, as well as the interests of all concerned parties. i insist on the fact that geographical indications benefit from a high level of protection at eu and international level. further enhancing this level of protection is one of the key objectives of the upcoming revision of the system of geographical indications. the commission proposal is expected to be adopted in a few weeks, at the beginning of april, and i am sure that this will allow us some time to continue exchanging on this important topic, key to the competitiveness of our agricultural sector and to the capacity of the common agricultural policy to address societal demands on food and health.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the major interpellation for written answer with debate by martin hlaváček, to the commission on the surge in commodity and input prices in the agricultural sector (g-001004/2021) (b9-0005/2022)
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i have the honour to speak on behalf of my colleague from the renew europe group, martin hlaváček, the author of this initiative with an obvious cause. european farmers are facing a perfect storm. geopolitical tensions, rising energy prices, and the post-pandemic economic crisis have created it and amplified it. all the costs of producers, fertilizer, seeds, feed, transportation and distribution have exploded, and inflation is the new normal. under these conditions, the farmers need our help urgently. they must remain on the market and continue to produce healthy food at competitive prices. my colleague, martin hlaváček, has worked on the new common agricultural policy and is familiar with all these aspects. it is therefore natural to ask the commission whether it has a plan to continue to deal with each specific crisis. do we put out one fire after another when it burns or do we shift our approach to a comprehensive strategy to prevent food crises? prevention and predictability allow market players, across the entire chain, from farmers to the store shelf, to plan their work. with proper preparation, the negative impact on consumers, agriculture and the food sector is reduced. we're preventing the burden of crises from falling on the citizens, who are now paying more for food. it is certainly important for european citizens to know whether there is a clear strategy for integrating our environmental, agricultural and energy objectives and preparing the union's capacity to cope with and respond to future food crises. there are serious problems, from drought to epidemics, that affect certain agricultural sectors. pig farmers, pig meat producers in the member states are the most vulnerable now to price increases. what concrete measures is the commission preparing for them? in my view, in the agricultural sector, as in other areas, we react too slowly, too heavily, too bureaucratically and after the crisis has already happened. this is the main complaint of european citizens. surely you have received similar messages! i go a lot on the ground both in romania and in the other member states and people don't understand why it takes years to have a directive, a programme or the new common agricultural policy. for the citizens, the problems are clear, i know them, i feel them every day. they don't need studies, consultations, trilogues and negotiations. we cannot of course skip these natural steps in the european legislative process, but my request to the commission and my colleagues is to find the solution for rapid intervention. citizens need to feel that we're helping them now, not three years after the problem arose. to increase confidence in the european construction, its benefits must be visible now, not just in election years. the new common agricultural policy will not come into force until 2023. by then, many farmers will have already shut down the business. their children are leaving the countryside, small and medium farms are being swallowed up by big companies. all of this creates chain effects that we will manage through new and new measures. all citizens suffer for the healthy food produced locally, which is increasingly hard to find and much more expensive. i would like to conclude by asking that we do not ignore the europeans who work 10 to 14 hours a day in the agricultural sector, whether they are seasonal workers, small and medium-sized farmers or just subsistence farmers! the most important lesson of the last two years is redefining what is essential. let's not forget that these citizens with the right to vote also have a lot of problems, low incomes, accumulated frustrations! rightly so, they now turn to voices that tell them loudly what they want to hear. with the rise of extremism in europe, with possible border conflicts and the post-pandemic crisis, we cannot continue to operate as we have been doing. if we don't understand how to get close to people with concrete measures and tailored communication, we assume we'll hear the word "exit" more and more often.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission is very well aware that the energy price crisis has important knock—on effects on the food sector. food and agriculture are exposed to energy costs, both directly and indirectly, from fertilisers to transport and freight. these knock—on effects concern both the farmers, who see their input prices increase, and consumers, who have to cope with higher food prices. therefore, i welcome the opportunity to exchange views in this house on the challenges for our food system in the midst of this commodity price surge. energy and fertiliser prices have increased 3.5 times more than agricultural prices at global level. the commission is analysing and following these inflationary pressure developments carefully, including farmers’ ability to recover higher input costs within the value chain in order to ensure that we maintain a resilient agri—food production system, which both protects farmers’ incomes and ensures affordable food prices. the prevention of, and the response to, market crises and negative impacts of the current import price surge on consumers, agriculture and the food sector require both short—term and long—term solutions. in view of the central role of energy prices, most of these are clearly beyond the scope of the common agricultural policy. firstly, to address the difficulties of the food sector, any short—term measures aiming at reducing energy prices and the factors that drive energy prices higher will immediately help the food sector by reducing input prices, relieving the squeeze in farm margins, and contribute to affordable food prices. as you know, many such measures are the responsibility of member states in the form of taxation, both in energy and other input costs, for example relating to fertiliser, as well as in farm income or in state aid. the commission will also carefully assess its state-aid tools in this respect, taking into account the requests of member states. any longer-term measures that can contribute to reducing the energy dependence of the eu will obviously help. for example, the transition to green ammonia and the hydrogen—based fertiliser industry or the development of the circular bio-economy, more generally speaking. such measures are identified in the commission communication of october 2021 on tackling rising energy prices, which included a toolbox for action and support and which you debated on 20 october last year. but also the new common agricultural policy has the potential to mitigate energy costs in the medium term through its future strategic plans, such as by supporting precision farming, which has the potential to reduce the use of fertiliser without compromising optimal crop growth, encouraging circular agriculture, and the use of organic manure, supporting better use of risk management measures. notwithstanding the outcome of the policy debate on short—term measures, the current crisis provides an opportunity for more lasting long—term solutions to these challenges in line with the green deal. an agricultural sector that is less dependent on external sources of energy does not necessarily imply lower production. it requires innovation through knowledge, technology and adoption of best practices. that can mitigate the significant pressure on production costs without hurting production capacity. this leads to progress rather than regression in productivity to achieve the green transition. finally, as to the current demanding situation in the pigmeat sector, this is the result of an imbalance between demand and supply aggravated by high input costs. after strong price declines in 2021, the pig market now shows signs of stabilisation. the commission has repeatedly highlighted to member states and to your committee on agriculture and rural development the options for specific market measures within the framework of the common market organisation regulation (eu) no 1308/2013 and the other available measures under the rural development funds, the temporary framework for state aid and de minimis rules. in view of the specific situation in the pig sector in relation to african swine fever (asf), in particular, cmo article 220 allows compensation measures for market losses related to movement restrictions imposed by veterinary measures taken to fight against animal disease. it requires a specific request by the member state concerned, which needs to co-finance it at 50%. with regard to private storage aid, the commission is of the opinion that this could postpone market adjustment or even make the problem worse because the relevant stocks would eventually have to find a market at a later stage. import bans by china and other third countries make exports impossible for member states affected by asf. china’s reduced demand is also to be taken into account.
for the verts/ale group madam president, commissioner, colleagues, this is indeed a matter of particular importance, because as we know, food is needed every day and not just once. and we all know that the situation in this area has been difficult and that it is getting worse. the new period saw a reduction of almost 10% in funding compared with the previous period, and some 10 billion were allocated to research that has not yet produced results, particularly in agriculture. this is really worrying. and i am very pleased to hear, on the one hand, that the commission knows the situation, has the data, but on the other hand, just having the data and knowing the situation is not enough: to say that in two years, in five years, you will be able to do this and that, to use other fertilisers or other technologies. farmers do not make fertilisers, farmers do not make machinery. farmers use what industry gives them. farmers use the technologies that are approved. and indeed, if we do not act quickly (and i am not talking about the fact that agriculture is declining and declining in certain countries), we will have rising prices, because the farmer will either produce or he will sell at higher prices - he has no choice. this is a very important issue and needs to be resolved today. not that we're going to get a new cap, a new strategic plan, but they're not going to do anything substantial if the prices of energy, fertilisers and other things remain this high. there's one other thing. what may be a small impact in one country can be a very large impact in another, with the difference in support between countries now almost three times as large. this is to be understood in the light of the fact that in some countries, such as my own, in the eastern countries, benefits are only about 70% of the european union average. if countries with twice the benefit are having a hard time, and energy prices are very similar everywhere, then countries with low benefits are having even more problems. i would also like to say that we must ensure that each country produces the basic foodstuffs it needs, so that we do not have to transport them from one eu country to another, so that the first supply is made in that country. good luck and we're waiting for your decision.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, and i think the question does correctly pinpoint one of the key reasons for the rise in commodity and import prices in the agricultural sector as being energy prices, in particular natural gas reaching a new high. and i think that is a correct point to make. but the solution, of course, is very clear. it’s nord stream 2. yes, we’ve had mep after mep getting up here yesterday condemning the project. we’ve had the german and french governments singled out for particular attack for having the good sense to engage in dialogue with our russian neighbour. look, i’m against fossil fuels, but until we can transition to renewables, well then nord stream 2 is a far better option than filthy, fracked us gas. it has the potential to provide a reliable, relatively clean and inexpensive solution to eu’s energy problems, including those of our farmers, with the added benefit of improving eu-russian relations, more trade, reduced barriers and more cooperation. but of course, that then means an end to us bases and an end to nato, and that’s the reason for the so-called ukraine crisis. and i would remind colleagues of the words of victoria nuland last month, when she said the only way left for us diplomats to block euro purchases is to goad russia into a military response and then claim that avenging this response outweighed any purely national economic interest. i think we have to snap out of it. stop being used as a us pawn. stand up for our own interests, beneficial cooperation for our farmers and our people, and a peaceful resolution with russia.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, democracy cannot be preserved if freedom of the media, freedom of assembly and freedom of association are not guaranteed, encouraged and respected. these are key to the foundation of our european union and each of our member states. this report comes as a consequence of the covid—19 pandemic and the various examples of backsliding we have seen in some member states since the beginning of this mandate. our civil society organisations are facing uneasy conditions across the european union, with increasing issues related to access to funding, discriminatory practices and restrictive criteria being imposed on ngos. the contraction of civic space is a first sign that the rule of law is at risk. and so often the case, these restrictions are disproportionately affecting our most vulnerable citizens and minority groups. we see this today more than ever. the european council commissioner for human rights notes that the situation in some member states for lgbtqi people, for example, can be described as worrying, with an increase in online harassment, hate campaigns and assaults. in addition, in this european year of youth, it’s important that we amplify the voice of europe’s youth organisations to be sure that they are building a positive influence into public policies and seeing a stronger europe. these issues can only be addressed through protecting our civil society organisations and ensuring adequate funding. i welcome the commission’s 1.5 billion funding for organisations through the citizens equality, rights and values programme. however, this is only the first step. it is essential that as parliamentarians, we recommit ourselves each and every day to encouraging a vibrant and diverse civil society at regional, national and european level. i think of ukraine. i think of the pro—democratic organisations in russia. be safe, be well.
dear chairman, mass rallies have been held in serbia in support of putin and russia's imperialist ambitions. we must not turn our backs on these events in serbia. serbia is not a nuclear power, but it can use russia's aggression to promote the aggressive policies it itself pursued thirty years ago. it could cause instability in an already vulnerable area of its environment. serbia is a candidate for membership of the european union. if it wants to continue to be, it must be clearly defined by the russian invasion and putin's reign of terror. well, this policy takes hundreds and thousands of lives in ukraine every day and threatens nuclear devastation to the world. any candidate for membership of the european union, including serbia, must stand for peace, justice and the right of every people to freedom and self-determination. and the european union must seek to promote these values of peace and freedom in all the candidate countries.
madam president, the current crisis in ukraine has been used by the irish media, at last – and a handful of politicians, to make the case that ireland should relinquish the neutrality enshrined in our constitution and even commit to joining nato. naturally, these jingoistic sentiments are from those too old to enlist their children and grandchildren, too aloft to endure the bad pay and conditions our defence forces have to put up with. ireland’s tradition of neutrality is born out of an unwillingness to kill and be killed in imperialist wars that have nothing to do with our people and everything to do with the interests of the elites profiting from arms, fossil fuel and finance industries that just happen to own much of the media calling for a military escalation today. ireland is one of the few eu countries that has not been directly involved in nato’s war crimes and atrocities, and we’d do well to continue that and we should use the credibility and goodwill that comes with neutrality to facilitate diplomacy, de-escalation and peace.
president, eu federalists are exploiting the war in ukraine, this terrible war, for their own agenda. they want to 'reform' the eu as soon as possible, create a geopolitical european commission and abolish the veto power of the member states. but how has the commission fared in the past few days? we saw an overambitious borrell who thought he could supply fighter jets, an impulsive von der leyen who wanted to supply arms under the eu flag and give eu membership for free - something that moldova and georgia now obviously want too. the war in ukraine shows that the european commission is not the solution to these problems. the european commission is the problem. the european council is always called indecisive by eu federalists, but in the last ten days we have seen european unity. the member states unanimously condemned the russian attack and sanctions were swiftly imposed. the future of the eu remains intergovernmental. the member states come together on matters of real importance. let's keep it that way.
madam president, we have discussed the implementation of cohesion policy here today. apart from the different levels of implementation or regional disparities and greater or lesser convergence, the framework of policies, notably macroeconomic policies, which are contrary to these objectives, was absent from the debate. from free competition in the single market to a single currency that is not adapted to the conditions and needs of several states, to the various instruments associated with it which condition policies or restrict investment. these are powerful factors of divergence, such as the weather and the specific situation of the regions of the most peripheral countries in the south-south-west, as portugal has been demonstrating, and which the ever-smaller cohesion envelopes aligned by various conditions cannot counteract. in addition to the rapid and effective mobilisation of funds, what is required is that they be free from conditionality and that they serve investment options and respond to the needs and development strategy and economic and social reality of each country.
madam president, there’s no doubt about it, we’re living in times of catastrophic crisis where the lives of innocent civilians are sacrificed in the wars of their masters. yes, in ukraine, but not only. since the last plenary, tens of thousands of afghani citizens have been forced to flee in search of food and safety. five million children face famine and agonising and painful death. a 500% increase in child marriages and children being sold just so they can survive. and not a mention of it. not here, not anywhere. no wall-to-wall tv coverage, no emergency humanitarian response, no special plenaries, not even a mention in this plenary. no afghani delegations and no statements. my god, they must be wondering what makes their humanitarian crisis so unimportant. is it the colour of their skin? is it that they’re not white, they’re not european, that their problems come from a us gun or a us invasion? is it that the decision to rob their country’s wealth was taken by a despotic us president rather than a russian one? because, my god, all wars are evil and all victims deserve support. and until we get on that page, we have no credibility whatsoever.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, some people would rather see ransomware as a mere technical or criminal problem instead of the russian state deliberately enabling criminals to weaken europe. some would see former prime minister gerhard schröder working for gazprom as a private matter, rather than a broader problem, with many top politicians working for authoritarian regimes, which is called ‘elite capture’. some see russian troll farms as an old phenomenon, merely finding its way into the digital age, instead of clear attempts to sow distrust, weaken and divide europe on an unprecedented scale. some see intellectual property theft and espionage by china as the second oldest profession in the world — what’s new? — instead of the slow drainage of our economic competitiveness. and some see payments from authoritarian states to political parties as a mere financial transaction, instead of direct foreign interference in our political processes. now, too often, too often we have looked the other way from incidents, while in fact they are part of a collective, orchestrated, broad way of foreign interference in our democratic processes. today, parliament is not just voting on stopping turning a blind eye to these phenomenon. we are also calling for many ways to counter these orchestrated attempts to undermine europe. our freedom and democracies are at stake, like both commissioners have told, so we need a structural and orchestrated response by the council, the commission, but also this parliament. what started as a temporary commission is now going to be a structural european effort. this is the reason why i got into politics. this is the reason why i’m here in strasbourg, and brussels, and i’m very glad that this is merely the beginning of a structural, core orchestrated european response to counter such threats.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, while enjoying working with colleagues on the report, we have made no secret that we are resolutely opposed to the majority position of the committee and, obviously, this report is no different. our minority report, which is attached, i think, makes the reasons why very clear. and it isn’t that we don’t think that foreign interference and disinformation are serious social harms deserving of special attention. we do, and they are. it isn’t that we don’t think that russia and china do propaganda and disinformation. of course they do. all powerful states do. it is because throughout the work of this committee, the focus has been selective. the report is silent on the most consequential sources of disinformation and interference in european democracy: that of large concentrations of capital, foreign and european, exercising massive influence over law-making and policy formation in the eu and member states through private media ownership, corporate lobbying and political funding. the report makes no mention of the defence industry and how it has corrupted european policy, to drive up weapons-spending and escalation. an industry needs an enemy, and the report gives it one or two, and i think the section on elite capture shows this point very well. the report is very strong on condemning those who go to work in the russian industry companies, and fair point, but our motion on having the similar condemnation of those who go and join american finance companies is voted down. so instead of tackling interference in democracy, the committee has actually had a one-track mind focusing on china and russia to the exclusion of everything else. it poses a child’s version of political reality. the world is divided into democracies and authoritarian regimes: goodies and baddies. the baddies tell only lies, the goodies never utter an untrue word. and in the middle of all of this, the european union is an innocent victim of all of this geopolitical aggression and propaganda, not a geopolitical actor itself with its own agenda. so, instead of fighting propaganda, the committee has actually become a platform for it. we had a litany of nato-funded think-tanks all coming from the same hymn sheet to inform us. is it any wonder that we’re left with the report the way it is, it is in their interest to spread this hysteria? and the consequence of this is insidious, it means mainstream political parties don’t have to take account of their own actions. they can blame the foreigners, the foreign interference, for that. so our concern all along has been that this poses a threat to fundamental freedoms and civil society in europe. and it might point out that a number of the measures we’re voting for here are in direct contradiction with measures that we’ll be voting on later on to protect civil society in a libe committee report, because it is calling for a ‘whole of society’ approach. criticism of european mainstream politics has to be seen as disinformation debunked by state-funded fact-checking organisations. the correct version of reality, including eu foreign policy, has to be promoted by strategically state-funded strategic communication centres – george orwell’s 1984 springs to mind. social media companies have to be brought to heal and pressure to censor anybody who has a different view of the official version of the truth. political parties and politicians sceptical to nato and eu narratives have to be placed under suspicion of being proxies of foreign powers. but you know what? avoiding conflict and de-escalation tensions means listening to your opponent, listening to their concerns, taking them seriously, however fraught the disagreement, and looking for compromises. but the function of this committee has been the opposite. it should make them be disinformation and condemn them as such. strong democracies tolerate internal dissent but this actually is textbook mccarthyism designed to stigmatise dissent, incite the public against internal critics, eradicate common sense and make all opposition unacceptable. it is a deliberate impairment of our society’s ability to think of extra-critical importance in these times of horrendous war. i and we absolutely reject it utterly.
madam president, first of all, congratulations to sandra kalniete for her sterling work, and to our chair and committee for making this a very effective committee. without proper facts and information, our laws will have little value. without proper facts, our citizens cannot be confident in our institutions. the viral spread of disinformation and fake news has wreaked havoc on our political systems, namely through interference in our democracies and our elections. let’s face it, we have been asleep at the wheel. none of our institutions, or indeed our national governments, have put enough resources into dealing with this threat. we need to do far more to counter this serious threat to our elections, to our referendums, to our democracies. disinformation is a scourge on our democracy and needs to be fought all the way from policy-makers through to large tech firms. as i’ve said, campaigns have been impacted. politicians are the losers. our democracies are the losers. we need a well-regulated digital market. we need to increase funding for our cyber-security infrastructure, and we need to adequately regulate social media companies. as meps, we must of course state strongly that we stand for democracy. for that reason, i think it’s hugely important that the mandate of the special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union, including disinformation (inge) is prolonged. let’s ensure that, for the rest of this mandate, our political system places the highest value on truth and on facts. if we do not do this, not only will our democracy suffer, each and every citizen will suffer, too.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i thank oksana for that powerful speech, and thank you, roberta, for ensuring that we had oksana here with us today. it was truly chilling to hear her words of women giving birth in underground stations with doctors online and babies getting sepsis and all of your other images too. we have spent much of the past 13 days talking about european values because, as you have said, oksana, as ukrainians take to the front line to defend their country, they are not just defending themselves and their own beliefs, but the core of our very union here. human rights, democracy, the rule of law, these are our european values, and right at the very heart is gender equality, not an add-on, not an extra, but in fact essential and quintessentially european from the start of our project. yet the tragedy of this international women’s day is that thousands of women, as you have said, oksana, are running under a hail of bullets, avoiding missiles and their houses falling down around them, running away from the violence, protecting their children and equally running into the fire to protect our european values. just two short weeks ago, these were the women contributing to ukraine in business, in communities and in building up the country’s democratic spirit and democracy. now they run under sniper fire. yet ukrainian women have others who know what it is like, even in the past year. ask the women of afghanistan – denied their voice, their education, their lives once again. and the women in ethiopia raped and brutalised, that isn’t just another weapon of war. the women of yemen, the women of belarus. this is just one year for women in some of the worst places to be a woman, now imagine all the rest. even in the best of places to be a woman we have unfinished democracies, unfinished gender equality agendas. in each of these places, and with each of these experiences, the task of finding peaceful solutions must be at the top of our agenda. the un, the us, g7, nato, if we are to have a sustainable and meaningful peace, we cannot only have the women working from the ground up. we must have women in the senior decision-making fora of our world. human rights, democracy, the rule of law, our european values are worth fighting for and gender equality is right at the heart.
i would like to thank the interpreters who have so bravely translated these words spoken so quickly.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner very much for all the initiatives which she undertook in recent weeks, including the visit to my home country, to romania, to the border, and all of the support that she and the european commission are providing to ukrainian people in need, but also to local authorities, to volunteers, to ngos, to governments who are trying to help ukrainian people in need. dear colleagues, now we need to make the european union visible. people in our home countries, people in host communities need to see that the european union stands by their side and helps. i am particularly grateful that we are having this debate today, especially on the situation of refugees, because, yes, the war in ukraine has many implications, but people come first. we need to talk about refugees. we need to find solutions for them. it is women and children who are waiting for hours in the cold, in bad weather conditions, to enter the european union, to exit ukraine safely. we need to provide all we can in terms of support immediately. we need to understand that this is the beginning, it is not the end. we need to put in place good infrastructure, good structures which can care for the people for months if needed. then, very important, we need to start preparing schooling for children. we know from the previous migration and refugee crisis that it takes months to organise teachers, books and proper conditions for children to learn in schools. this is essential. only an educated child has a chance to find a job and to reduce the risk of radicalisation in the end. likewise, we have to address the food implications in ukraine, but also in neighbouring countries, and we also have to make sure that wounded ukrainian citizens receive proper protection, including in eu member states if needed. treatment in eu member states for wounded ukrainian citizens is humanitarian aid. we should provide that.
madam president, each new day of the russian invasion brings more suffering to ukrainians. the humanitarian situation is deteriorating. almost two million people, mostly women and children, have left the country, but expectations are even more grim. i would like, from the croatian war experience, to point out that internally displaced people within ukraine, who are not included in these statistics, also need protection and assistance. in less than two weeks, numerous attacks on civilian infrastructure, schools and hospitals took place, jeopardising the most vulnerable groups. moreover, attempts to organise humanitarian corridors, where civilians seek a way out of the hell of war, have failed due to russian shelling and blockades. but the suffering of ukraine has caused a tsunami of solidarity in the eu. the activation of the temporary protection directive hopefully can turn the tide. it may eventually create momentum to be used for the long—awaited adoption of the pact on migration and asylum.
mr president, when i was leaving for strasbourg, i left at home, with my mother and with my husband, 11 ukrainian refugees, mothers and children. they speak russian. they are from eastern ukraine and they are bombarded by russians. they are traumatised. they are tired. they believe that they can return home, or to what was their home, in a few weeks – and yet there are more and more and more refugees coming. they asked me to thank you all, and via you the citizens of europe, for your support, solidarity and involvement. i believe, and i do hope that more and more people will understand that there are no better or worse wars, better or worse refugees. i am thinking here about those who are dying in the cold forests at the belarussian—polish border. we must not forget them now, as we think about the crimes that putin commits in ukraine. we have shown our unity and potential in these last days. i trust that we can do more and that we shall do more to save lives and guarantee peace.
mr president, yesterday i arrived at the main station in berlin and, when i walked up the stairs, just like in so many other places in europe right now, i could already see the stalls, the info desks and the many, many volunteers in their neon vests who were welcoming refugees there. and i could see the people, many of them loaded with bags, a lot of children indeed, who had arrived with tired faces, exhausted from a long journey, anxious and worried. and i thought to myself, is it not that in these tired and exhausted faces, we can actually see the meaning of this union? in these faces – and i want to say it very clearly – no matter whether their skin is white, brown or black, no matter whether their gender actually matches the markers in their documents, in these faces, the promises of this union are reflected because this union was built to create peace. this union was built to defend humanity, freedom and democracy, and this union was built to defend the rule of law against the law of the ruler. let us live up to these promises. we have failed so many people before. let us not fail again. not now and not in the future.
mr president, i wholeheartedly welcome the eu’s unprecedented provision of immediate protection for ukrainian refugees fleeing this devastating war. this rightfully respects our mandate to protect the fundamental rights of those entering our territories and it’s heartening to see the outpouring of support and solidarity from every point of the eu. but how do we explain that solidarity with, for example, in poland, less than three months ago, the fact that 19 people perished from cold on our borders, met with barbed wire and water cannon? how do we explain that solidarity with the fact that there are afghan refugees in greek jails charged with people smuggling, or there are people beaten back from the borders of croatia in appalling circumstances, sodomised and robbed? how can this be the same european union? it’s because our society, our media and our politicians portray some refugees as more human than others, based on their origin and their race. we have to ensure a consistent, non-discriminatory application of international asylum law. everybody has the right to the highest international standards. i hope this is a turning point.
mr president, putin’s war threatens an entire nation’s people; with nuclear weapons in the hands of a reckless despot, it threatens us all. in any war zone, it is the ordinary people, the children, women and men who bear the heaviest burden. the number of refugees escaping the ukraine war zone has hit the staggering figure of over two million people – people fleeing their homes in terror, as i speak. for those with disabilities or with other vulnerabilities, the situation is particularly dire and so we must show solidarity in welcoming the people of ukraine into our homes, our communities and into our nations. let this war be a wake—up call for eu refugee policy in general, which has only hardened in recent years, punishing migrants and humanitarians alike. the potential for war is close to us all now. will this be the catalyst for change?
mr president, (missing audio) … the majority of whom are women and children. there is a dark cloud on this international women’s day, as ukrainian women and children are traumatised and exhausted. their lives have been destroyed and many have left loved ones behind: husbands, fathers, brothers and sons. more than two million people have now fled ukraine to seek refuge in the european union since the onset of the russian invasion. the fastest exodus of people from a country since world war ii. i commend our eastern member states for welcoming ukrainians with open arms, but we must mobilise the resources of all of europe to help them. i welcome last week’s decision by justice and home affairs ministers to activate the temporary protection directive for ukrainians. the shocking murder of civilians, as they flee through what are supposedly humanitarian corridors, is a war crime. we must isolate russia comprehensively, not in a piecemeal way. we must have measures that are economic, social, cultural and business must be comprehensive. this is a ‘whatever it takes’ moment for european democracy. there is a moral imperative on all of us to save as many lives as possible as putin and his barbaric regime murder our ukrainian friends and partners. we must work together. we must respond comprehensively.
we have an energy system that doesn’t serve the people or the planet. the energy price crisis hasn’t come out of nowhere. one in four european households already struggled to adequately heat, cool or light their homes. you have fossil fuel companies continuing to reap massive profits. we need a windfall tax on their inflated prices, and we need immediate financial support for those who most need it. the leaked version of the commission’s forthcoming communication on energy prices suggests that the eu will get liquified natural gas (lng) from the us and qatar to replace russian gas. of course we should end our dependency on russian gas, but we should not simply substitute this dependency for another dependency on filthy fracked gas from the us, a country which has bombed, invaded, occupied and interfered with more countries than anyone. building new lng terminals in europe that would create more fossil fuel lock-in would be a disaster, and it would make a mockery of the green deal.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all, i’d like to thank the rapporteurs for the work that they did and for the consultations that they held with all colleagues. i’m delighted to be here today and able to discuss what i think is a very constructive and forward-looking report on gender mainstreaming in the european parliament. we know that often our parliaments fall down when it comes to women’s representation, and ensuring that women are heard in leadership and politics is a much harder task than it ought to be. i’m very proud to be a member of this parliament, with its relatively high representation of women compared to other parliaments. nevertheless, there is more that we can do, and i think this report is an opportunity to change things in the european parliament, making it an even better place in relation to gender equality. it does that by offering a clear roadmap, complete with indicators, as to how we make sure that this parliament is entirely inclusive of women. when you look at any parliament, including this one, and you put a clear lens on it, you see what i would call sometimes subtle discriminations, not always subtle, but very often they are subtle. you see old patterns in terms of who leads committees. you see old patterns that particular positions in finance and economics tend to be taken by men, and even in foreign affairs as well, surprisingly. you see those patterns being repeated and often, in the hierarchy of parliaments, women have a lesser role. so this is about asking how we make sure that we have a very inclusive parliament. it does talk about quotas, of course, and i always say about quotas that they are a short interim measure, as the un has said. the quotas have operated for a long time on the side of men. let’s be clear about that. so i’m very proud to see a roadmap for the incorporation of maternity leave for meps into the functioning of our parliament, as the report states. it demands, in particular, that maternity, paternity and parental leave be recognised for members of parliament through an amendment to the statute for members of the european parliament and the implementation of solutions that guarantee members the ability to continue working while on maternity, paternity or parental leave, such as remote voting continuing, and so on. i think that’s very important. let’s build for the next generation of female politicians.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her work and her team. colleagues, we only have to look around the world today to see the necessity of the eu’s gender action plan to advance gender equality in our external action. gender-based violence, education for women and girls, support for female entrepreneurship, access to sexual and reproductive health and rights, and women in leadership: each of these issues need to be thoroughly integrated into our foreign policy at its core. in particular, on the day when the european commission put forward a proposal for a directive on tackling violence against women in the eu, we must look to the spotlight initiative to tackle this issue outside the union. i’m pleased to say that in 2017, the eu and the un made a joint pledge to work together to spend eur 500 million to combat and tackle violence against women across the world. that project has been enormously successful. the statistics speak for themselves: 880 000 men and boys educated on positive masculinity, respect for family relationships, non-violent conflict resolution and parenting, and 84 laws passed, signed and strengthened across 17 countries, 1 million young people reached. this is the kind of work we need to be doing that needs to be supported in our external actions. i want to support my colleague sirpa pietikäinen for all the work that she’s done on this and also the points she made in relation to human rights defenders. they do need to be specifically mentioned in our external action work. they need specific support. also in relation to female genital mutilation (fgm), of course, let me be clear, this is a heinous crime, violating the dignity of women and girls, from which they may never recover. we must tackle this horrendous phenomenon relentlessly. colleagues, we only have to look at the brave women of ukraine to know why gender equality needs to be at the core of our foreign policy. let’s do it.
madam president, at the outset the immediate priority must be to support the countries – poland, slovakia, hungary, romania and moldova – in welcoming and supporting and assisting the ukrainian refugees that are pouring across our borders to the sanctuary of europe. i visited western ukraine last weekend to see thousands and thousands of people dragging their bags behind them as they walked for kilometre after kilometre to the sanctuary of europe. so when we talk about semesters and we talk about financial frameworks, our immediate priority must be to support the refugees and the countries that are welcoming them at the moment. that must be our immediate priority. we also have to accept that all the fundamentals and the certainties that we based this report on and our views up until now are changed and probably changed forever. so we are now in a new dispensation, and i want to say that from now on, when we talk about stability and growth, when we talk about the general escape clause, we have to accept that europe’s capacity to provide sanctuary and safety, not only for refugees, but also the new plight that will be facing the citizens of europe in terms of cost of living, will be issues that we will have to do a big rethink on very, very quickly.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the cleanest, most sustainable and cheapest energy is the energy we do not use. that's why energy efficiency must always come first. but to build a highly efficient economy powered by 100 percent renewable energy, we need more and more batteries. that is why it is so important today to review the battery legislation and i thank the rapporteur, mrs bonafè, for the work she has done and for improving the commission's proposal. the right to repair, the removability of batteries, the restriction of the use of hazardous substances, reuse, recycling and above all the substantial strengthening of the due diligence provisions, which are essential to ensure that the entire value chain, in particular the extraction of rare materials, respects social and environmental standards and human rights. all of these are crucial points. and i'm going to focus on the rare materials, the critical and weak link of the battery race. the way out is to create a circular system to recover and recycle these precious materials. but what if there was another way? what if we could use the resources that are widely available in europe? salt, for example. well, salt batteries are proving to be an interesting and promising solution, albeit with some improvements, but low cost, easily recyclable and to be invested more attention. but a precondition for all of this is to accelerate towards energy independence. we greens are calling for a european law on energy independence, because diversifying gas purchases is not enough to solve our dependence on fossil fuels. we need to revolutionise the current energy model and build one that is peaceful, that is democratic, that respects human rights, that creates jobs and fights the climate crisis. and this model is based on energy efficiency and renewables.
madam president, this proposal on batteries is welcome and timely. in the last two weeks, the rulebook on energy has been rewritten. the goals of geopolitics and the climate movement now converge on the need to phase out fossil fuels. as we move towards electrification in all spheres, batteries will play a crucial role in weaning ourselves off fossil fuels, including russian sources, and this will result in healthier communities with cleaner air. and with transport, we shouldn’t just promote a private electric vehicle for everyone. the resources required would be enormous, and it wouldn’t solve issues like congestion and road safety. so instead, let’s allocate the required rare earths and minerals smartly, for example, by electrifying public transport as part of our modal shift efforts. and i strongly welcome the parliament’s position on the batteries in waste batteries regulation. i welcome the expansionist scope to cover all batteries. the strengthening of the right to repair and removability requirements and provisions on due diligence and supply chains. a cleaner mobility transition must not come at the expense of decent working conditions elsewhere, however. but europe can lead the battery revolution, and it has a chance to do so fairly.
madam president, batteries are a crucial element for our green transition and the new circular economy. as renewable energy sources become more and more important, batteries have a key role in balancing the grid. they are key in electromobility, transforming the transportation sector to carbon neutral. demand for batteries will dramatically increase in coming years as the whole energy system is also transforming. as mentioned here, war in ukraine will have an impact on this as well. how can we guarantee sources when the trade and material chains are breaking globally? i think the commission has worked hard since the last commission period and continued today by commissioner šefčovič and now, commission, is still no time to sleep. this is a great piece of legislation with regard to the sustainability and also the source of materials as the best source is recycled once used materials. but have you mapped, have you looked at what we have in our soils? there is a lot of potential. i know in my country there are unused sources for cobalt, graphite and lithium with sustainable working conditions. if we still need to import from other countries, do we now have security that they pay due diligence duties and that it is ecologically and also sustainably sourced so that battery industries can trust that due diligence covers human rights as well? i think europe can become an important player in the battery industry by creating a battery ecosystem based on the sustainability requirements and excellent research and innovation and by incorporating values.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it must be recognized that, unlike in the past, when we supported environmental policies in favour of photovoltaics without having a european production, on this occasion the european union is aligning its environmental policies with those of industry and aims to have its own gradual productive autonomy of quality to counterbalance that of third countries. the time factor is certainly an essential variable, also in the light of the ongoing war, which, should it unfortunately continue, obliges us to pursue our objectives, but at the same time to open a thorough discussion in order to evaluate in a practical way what corrective measures we might adopt to the way in which our environmental strategies are implemented. having said that, i believe that the work of the regulation is a model to be replicated for the holistic approach with which regulations have been defined for the entire life cycle of a product, so that its potential can be exploited to the maximum and a virtuous circular system can be created. it has been said that the demand for batteries will grow exponentially to promote both sustainable mobility and the accumulation of renewable energy, but we also know that unfortunately europe is dependent on third countries for the necessary chemical components. the current blockade of russia's nickel exports further highlights the need and urgency of our circular production system being as autonomous as possible, as the regulation aims to achieve. i would like to thank mrs bonafè, who was able to share and define an innovative and ambitious but also balanced text. i hope, however, that there is still room for improvement in the negotiations, particularly on a number of points: i am thinking in particular of the definition of battery or manufacturer or the wording of article 11 on the replacement and removability of batteries, for which i believe that easy and practical replacement should be allowed without compromise for the devices or, at the very least, risk for the consumer. finally, i hope that the new regulation will also be accompanied by a reduction in the bureaucratic burden on businesses, so that they do not lose competitiveness. because let us remember that we will only be able to achieve our ambitious environmental goals if we do not weaken our economy.
madam chair, as many as 42% of smartphone failures and 27% of laptop failures are battery related. we all remember the time when the battery on a cell phone could be easily removed and replaced and each of us could be our own master. now, phones are assembled in such a way that the battery sticks to the phone, and if you try to separate it, there's a good chance that you'll cause further damage to the device. the commission has not found any evidence that the chinese exporting producers have been able to obtain sufficient spare capacity to meet the demand for batteries. an additional problem consumers complain about is the short battery life, or the fact that it performs worse after updating the operating system. the commission has also concluded that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. i want to congratulate everyone who worked on this document. we aim to extend the provisions of this regulation to all types of products, in particular with regard to longer life of appliances and easier repairs, better consumer information and respect for human rights in production. it's frustrating that it always takes a crisis to get things done that we've been working on for years. with each crisis, it becomes clearer how important energy independence and efficiency are. living green should not be the privilege of those who can afford it, but the reality of all of us.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened very carefully to the different interventions and taken good note of the honourable members’ ambitions and also their ideas. i think we are here to ensure that the green transition in the eu is powered by truly sustainable batteries. setting up the new legal framework for batteries in europe is a top priority for us and even more so in the current context after russia’s attack on ukraine. we must overcome our dependency on fossil fuels, and batteries are a key part of the solution. the same goes for the security of supply of critical raw materials, and that’s why circular economy solutions are key building blocks of the proposal. i’m very pleased to see the constructive proposals regarding light means of transport and separate waste collection targets. with regard to the level of ambition and timetable for the implementation of the regulation, i would like to note that the commission’s initial proposal has already set the bar high and struck the right balance between ambition and realism. talking about shorter timelines or the extension of requirements to other batteries, i would call on you to work towards focusing efforts on other matters and considering what the additional burden on economic operators, the extra cost, would be. in addition, some caution is required when considering increasing recycling efficiency rates. this may not deliver real environmental gains as expected, and for instance, a doubling of recovery levels of lithium may lead to disproportionate amounts of energy required in the process, and we should carefully analyse and discuss the related amendments. regarding the calendar for the adoption of the secondary legislation, i understand that you would prefer a faster calendar, and so would i. however, the commission needs to develop quality secondary legislation. advancing deadlines could result in legal uncertainty, with a risk of litigation and damage claims, and this would be the opposite of what we all want to achieve. many of you talked about sustainable sourcing of the raw materials in our batteries, and due diligence is important. the commission has just made a proposal on corporate sustainable due diligence that will apply across sectors. for batteries, we have the concern that the substantial changes to the commission proposal go beyond the risks related to the mining of minerals that we identified. so we need to discuss this also in light of the new proposal on corporate sustainable due diligence. you also highlighted reparability – ‘the right to repair’ – and this is very important for me personally. i am sure that we will be able to find the right balance between reuse, repair and safety concerns. so, in the upcoming trialogues, we stand ready to work with you very closely and the council, as an honest broker, to find compromises that are mutually agreeable. together, i am sure that we can put in place as soon as possible a new regulatory framework for the new battery value chain that is both ambitious and implementable. thank you once again for your work and for the good discussion today.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in this missing minute i would like to begin by thanking all the members who have spoken in this fine debate today; i would also like to thank commissioner sinkevičius for his support over the last few months and, above all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs of the imco, tran and itre committees for their joint work and the shadow rapporteurs of the envi committee, with whom there has been excellent cooperation. you have it, we all have it: i am thinking of energy, but i am also thinking of batteries, because these two sectors are very closely linked. so to the few colleagues who have asked us to stop, to abandon the ecological transition, the energy transition, just because we don't have the raw materials to use for batteries, and therefore for our energy autonomy, i ask if we should, by any chance, also go back to the token phone, since batteries are not only for electric mobility, but they are also for our mobile phones. i therefore doubt that the ideological approach is that of those who do not defend this regulation, but who do not want to see that this regulation is precisely the answer to dependence on other countries, because it increases recycling rates, because it strengthens production chains in europe and, at the same time, it relies on due diligence and it relies on the protection of human health. and so i say not only must we not stop, but we must obviously run.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on wednesday 9 march 2022 and the final vote will take place on thursday 10 march 2022. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. – given the important role they play in the roll-out of zero-emission mobility and the storage of intermittent renewable energy, batteries are a crucial element in the eu’s transition to a climate neutral economy. this proposal is designed to modernise the eu’s regulatory framework for batteries in order to secure the sustainability and competitiveness of battery value chains. it would introduce mandatory requirements on sustainability (such as carbon footprint rules, minimum recycled content, performance and durability criteria), safety and labelling for the marketing and putting into service of batteries, and requirements for end-of-life management, having in mind that more than 1.9 million tonnes of waste batteries are generated annually in europe. i consider to be consistent with january 2020 resolution on egd, which stressed that the new eu regulatory framework for batteries should cover at least sustainable, ethical and safe sourcing, ecodesign including measures to address recycled content, substitution of hazardous and harmful substances where possible, improved separate collection, reuse, refurbishment, remanufacturing, repurposing and recycling – including higher recycling targets, the recovery of valuable materials, extended producer responsibility, and consumer information. the framework should tackle the full lifecycle environmental impacts, with dedicated provisions on batteries relating to mobility and energy storage.
rapporteur. – madam president, we are voting on this environment action programme (eap) just a week after the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) published its latest sobering assessment report. that report concludes that the scientific evidence is unequivocal: climate change is a threat to human well-being and planetary health. any further delay in global action on adaptation and mitigation will miss a rapidly closing window of opportunity to secure a liveable and sustainable future for us all. scientists are clear that between now and 2030 is the decisive decade for humanity, for our future on earth. we are in a triple planetary crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss and waste and pollution, and that requires rapid, bold and far—reaching action. so we are voting at a time when the violent consequences of our dependence on fossil fuels have been laid bare for all to see. it is therefore imperative that all objectives and measures contained in the eighth eap are implemented, and implemented fast. this includes the objective of a well—being economy, which gives back more to the planet than it takes. we know the endless pursuit of eternal gdp growth is simply incompatible with our planet’s finite resources. for us to live well, within the planetary boundaries, we need to rethink how we define economic progress. this is echoed in last week’s ipcc report, which states that benefits for health and well—being can be gained by transitioning to a low carbon, well—being-oriented and equity—oriented economy consistent with the aims of the sustainable development goals. with this eighth eap, the eu recognises that the systemic change necessary to meet our environmental goals requires a new kind of economy that looks beyond gdp, and now is the time to deliver. this week, we have seen that our addiction to fossil fuels does not just steal the future from next generations, but also brings conflict and destruction to our very own neighbourhood. massive public subsidies to already profitable fossil fuel industries continue to this day, while hundreds of millions of euros are sent to undemocratic regimes every single day. investment in fossil fuel infrastructure meanwhile locks us into this pattern for decades to come. after difficult negotiations, the european parliament won a key point – the eu now must set a concrete deadline to phase out fossil fuel subsidies that is consistent with the ambition of limiting global warming to 1.5 °c. to secure a liveable planet for today’s young people and future generations, public money must be redirected away from activities that further heat the planet and towards those truly sustainable ways. the eighth eap’s commitment to end other environmentally harmful subsidies is just as important. nature is key to our planet’s life support system, yet governments continue to subsidise these activities that destroy ecosystems. as the rapporteur, i have high expectations for the commission to swiftly pinpoint and end these harmful subsidies once and for all, so that we can invest instead in biodiversity protection and restoration. it is also now incumbent on the commission to treat the protection of eu soil just like air and water, with legislation on soil health required by 2023. this agreement makes it clear – at the behest of the parliament – that measures taken to protect the environment and climate must be carried out in a socially fair and inclusive way in line with a just transition, in line with a just transition. we must remember that the longer we delay environmental action, the more disruptive and damaging the transition will be. fair environmental action is fast environmental action. so, while the agreement we are voting on today is an ambitious framework programme to bring us to 2030, we know that we need more ambition. we need results. that’s why the addition by the parliament of a governance mechanism to the eighth eap is so crucial. we must ensure that our progress towards our environmental objectives are kept high on the political agenda and that decision makers are held to account. in this most crucial decade of implementation, we cannot miss our 2030 goals. i would, at this time, like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for all of your excellent cooperation in the negotiations on this file over the past year, as well as the slovenian presidency and, of course, the commission, who have worked very well to agree on this meaningful framework for environmental action. now, while the window of opportunity remains open to us, let us make sure it happens.
mr president, i welcome the debate on this particular issue regarding the report on fair and simple taxation supporting recovery. and i suppose while we were publishing these reports and processing these reports the last number of weeks, we are now very much in a new dispensation, commissioner. we face existential challenges in terms of the ukrainian crisis, and it has changed all the basic metrics on which we were assessing growth into the future and making projections and predictions about how europe would recover from the covid pandemic. but we now, as i said, face a more serious crisis, the immediacy obviously of supporting ukraine, addressing the refugee crisis and supporting the countries where refugees are spilling into the european union so they can cope and provide humanitarian assistance. but beyond that, when we talk about a fair and simple taxation supporting the recovery, we also have to acknowledge that we do need to do an awful lot more in terms of coordinating within the european union, reducing the administrative burden so small and medium-sized businesses can trade across the entirety of the single market. and that is always, and consistently is, a significant challenge. so we want to simplify the codes, but at the same time, i am challenged because i also have a difficulty with some of the tone and the content, not just necessarily of this report, but of the general content coming from the commission, for example, around the issue of unanimity in taxation matters. and commissioner gentiloni, you have often raised this particular issue yourself. and i just highlight one instance that will create huge difficulties for irish people in the short and medium term, that is the cost of home heating oil, a massive increase in home heating oil, and the irish government’s hands are tied because there is no flexibility around the issue of vat in terms of home heating oil. so i bring that to your attention because i am concerned with this continual drift and encroachment of the independence of countries to set their own tax rates. in income tax specifically and other areas, i have a deep concern. but i make a plea on the issue of vat that there would be flexibility, not just to ireland, but to many member states that will find that families will be significantly challenged because of the cost increases in home heating oil and many other fuel products.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, first of all, i’d like to thank the rapporteur pedro marques and my fellow shadows for the excellent work on this particular report. of course, the withholding tax framework was unfortunately thrust into the spotlight by a series of scandals involving flawed and complex webs of transactions in the so-called cum-ex and cum-cum scandals. it is clear that the framework needs reform. we need to close the loopholes and improve communication amongst our tax authorities, as was referenced by pedro marques and also by the commissioner himself this evening. and we need to ensure that criminals can be identified and brought to justice, and that is where we have a significant challenge within many member states. the political will, the legislation, the enforcement, the effort of the system to ensure that those that are caught in tax evasion are prosecuted. we do have, by and large, two rules. one’s for smaller criminals and those that fly private jets and are very often swanning around in the finest resorts in their yachts. yet no sanctions taken against people who wilfully abuse our tax laws. another more positive aim of the reform is to simplify and streamline the reclaiming of withholding tax. and this was obviously an issue that was brought to our attention when we spoke to many of the experts in this particular area. many of them stressed that it was burdensome, the administrative procedures across member states were very difficult and hard to understand, and that they didn’t link into each other from a digital point of view. so we do need to digitise and when we talk again about digital europe in the area of tax authorities talking to each other, being able to relay live information, transactions across member states, the administration of taxation itself, we do have to embrace that concept of digitisation. and while i’m often critical of the commission and people in this house with regard to article 116 about rates of taxation and about the sovereignty of countries in terms of striking rates in taxation, we still have the opportunity – and in my view the obligation – to ensure that we share information, that we pool information, so that there is no hiding place for those that want to abuse our complex tax laws that are in various member states. so we do need to simplify the overall taxation code, and i welcome this particular report. i think it is a very inclusive report. it takes into account a lot of the views expressed by the various groups. but more importantly, the overall framework of taxation referred to in pillar i and pillar ii needs also to be transposed to ensure that we have an effective modern taxation system for the eu in the years ahead.
madam president, the persecution, intimidation and violence against the press is a very worrying problem. at least 47 journalists have been killed since 2018, making mexico one of the most dangerous countries in the world for the press. violence that also hits human rights defenders and environmental defenders especially worryingly, with 42 murders in 2021. besides murders, one of the most dangerous threats facing journalists and human rights defenders is disappearances: nearly 100,000 people have disappeared since 1964, according to mexico's national search commission. these are all real problems facing society and they make the shortcomings of the mexican state clear. from here, we call for the implementation of policies that ensure a basic right in democracy such as the right to information, without this implying risking one's own life, in solidarity with journalists like guillermo garcía, a new case, among so many others, of harassment of the press. the problem is that some political groups in this house are using this situation as a weapon against the mexican government, with interests that have little to do with the defence of journalists and human rights defenders. and this is intolerable.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, mexico is in a very worrying situation. the number of journalists killed is very high, the latest one last friday. moreover, the murders of journalists and human rights defenders occur in a climate of impunity, as those responsible are rarely arrested and brought to justice. we must also add the very high number of cases of violence against women and the high number of crimes connected with drug trafficking. mexico suffers an average of ninety murders a day. the country is experiencing a veritable tsunami of violence and every week a journalist is being killed. there is a clear deterioration of the rule of law in mexico. the populist government focuses on the personalist leadership of its president and not on the effective functioning of its institutions, especially those responsible for security and justice. there is no security for individuals, nor is there legal security for companies. this is the case, for example, with foreign investments in the electricity sector, including european companies. governance is first and foremost about guaranteeing the lives, rights and freedoms of citizens, including, of course, those of journalists, who are indispensable professionals in a democracy. the welfare and prosperity of citizens is also a priority. however, in mexico, the economic march is being very disappointing. the expected rebound in economic growth following the covid crisis has not occurred. good governance of a country is not about making daily speeches that seek to polarize and regularly accuse sectors and institutions. governance is not about digging up the distant colonial past or inventing external enemies in the spirit of confrontation. mexico is a great country, an indispensable partner for the european union in latin america. it was the first country on the continent with which the european union signed an agreement on economic partnership and political consultation. 25 years ago, it was 1997. and since 2009 it is one of the so-called strategic partners of the european union. the european union is also committed to the development of the internal market, and we are convinced that the european union will continue to play a leading role in this area.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mexico has started one of the bloodiest years for press freedom with six journalists killed (47 since 2018), a shocking situation that shows the situation of violence journalists are living in mexico. in this context, this violence also has a female face because in the period 2010 to 2021 more than 1 200 aggressions against women have been recorded, mainly reporters (769 of these cases in the last three years). this is the situation; this is the context. mexico has a federal mechanism for protecting human rights defenders and journalists that is clearly overwhelmed by the violence. lourdes maldonado, recently murdered, had protection, but it was of no use. it doesn't help because the impunity is alarming: 95 percent of journalist murders go unsolved. and, in this context, it is not acceptable that the government creates a government platform used by the president to stigmatize, criticize and ridicule journalists under the pretext of fighting lies and fake news. this platform must be eliminated and the real enemies of democracy in mexico must be fought, which are those who are murdering journalists with impunity. without freedom of the press there can be no democracy.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, reporters without borders describes this year in mexico as beginning with a bloodbath for journalists, and the reality is that it has continued so since. but it’s not new and as we approach the 10th anniversary of the murder of regina martínez, the veteran crime journalist who was beaten and suffocated in her apartment in 2012, we should take note. mexico is of course now the most dangerous country on earth for journalists. many are being killed – on average, as colleagues have said, almost one a week now. many more are missing. no investigations. total impunity because of the collusion between the state forces and criminal gangs, and this is obviously completely unacceptable. but it’s not the only area of criminal impunity, and we should look at our relationships with mexico, our ftas, where we see that transnational corporations, including some of our own, have also had impunity for their actions and violations against human rights defenders and indigenous peoples in mexico. if we’re to be consistent, we have to condemn all such violations.
for the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam vice-president, the most urgent task for the european union at this moment is to support ukraine, to help it defend itself against the aggression of putin, who is bombing ukrainian cities at this very moment. however, we must not forget the protection of human rights elsewhere, including in myanmar, where the real genocide of the rohingya population continues. unfortunately, nothing has improved since the european parliament's last resolution in october last year. the military junta continues to commit violence, murdering civilians, systematically persecuting christians, destroying churches. more than 9 500 political prisoners have already been victims of this repressive regime and 1 600 of these political opponents have even been killed. the european parliament strongly condemns the military junta and in particular condemns the support of russia and china which support it. the european parliament has called for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. since then, the already precarious humanitarian situation has worsened enormously: more than 1 500 citizens have been killed, more than 8 600 people are in prison, 80 are on death row, and more than 400 000 are newly displaced. all this since the military coup a year ago and the disputed democratic elections. today, power is in the hands of the military junta. we are on the ground, as europe, as parliament, in defence of the civilian population and human rights defenders and, in particular, in defence of ethnic and religious minorities, who were already suffering from severe persecution before the coup. we call on the military junta to release all political prisoners and restore the democratically elected government. only politics, a democratic process can restore a condition of peace and stability in the country. at the same time, i call on our borrell, commissioner jourová and the commission as a whole to support all diplomatic initiatives, such as those under way in the association of southeast asian nations, but above all to put pressure on the military junta to allow humanitarian aid to reach the entire civilian population in the country, especially the displaced. we must be resolute, determined and vigilant, especially at this time. if there are no positive developments, be prepared to strengthen and introduce new sanctions. to strike at the bottom of the economic interests that are gathered around the military junta: that is the task of europe and that is the task of the european parliament.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, since the military coup in february 2021, the myanmar military has committed serious crimes and has violated a range of human rights by murdering civilians, arbitrarily detaining prisoners, forcing displacements of thousands of people and oppressing ethnic and religious minorities. with over 14 million people in humanitarian need, the targeting of civilians and humanitarian actors is unthinkable. yet it is happening in myanmar. it is a blatant violation of international law. so today we urge myanmar military authorities to immediately reinstate the civilian government, allowing a swift return of myanmar to the path of democracy and to release immediately and unconditionally all political prisoners. i welcome the recent round of sanctions adopted by the council against people and entities involved in the coup. this is an important eu instrument to sanction violators of human rights. but we should intensify our help by all possible means. the international community must relentlessly continue to take additional actions to help myanmar citizens fighting for democracy. fundamental rights should never be compromised.
madam president, the recent events made clear that we are facing a global battle: democracy versus authoritarianism; the rule of law versus the rule of power; respect for human rights against their total disregard. it’s a battle fought in different places with different means, and ukraine’s invasion is only the most evident example. nevertheless, it is the same fight. one of the battlegrounds is in myanmar. since the coup in february 2021, the situation has continuously worsened. some 1 500 civilians were killed, 12 000 arrested, 84 sentenced to death. numbers that bring back ghosts from the past. china and russia have taken a clear position in this fight. they block any attempt of the united nations security council to draft a resolution. they legitimise the junta, which supports putin’s war on ukraine, also providing it with military means that are used every day in the repression. words fall on deaf ears. we need strong action instead. new and more stringent measures, coordinated international pressure, the referral of the situation to the international criminal court and the immediate suspension of myanmar from gsp and eba trade preferences. yesterday was already late, madam commissioner. we need to use all instruments at our disposal and stay united, because their civil society should not feel abandoned and because this is a fight for democracy we can’t afford to lose.
i have to say, madam president, it's 2022, but we don't have a peaceful world. it is more than a year since the junta took power in myanmar and has since committed massacres against the civilian population. i condemn in the strongest terms the fact that russia, china and serbia, as members of the united nations, have helped the coup plotters to supply arms to the military regime in myanmar. supporting a military regime that uses force against the civilian population deserves condemnation and sanctions, not help from un countries. the people of myanmar must not live with torture and abuse as part of their daily lives. i am thinking here of the rohingya, who are particularly vulnerable. i want a peaceful solution that respects the democratic elections of 2020 and gives power to the civilian population - the civilian population's choice of a government. if there is no improvement, we should seriously consider more sanctions, because over 14 million people are in need of humanitarian aid. many children and adults are starving. i call today for us in the eu to stand together on sanctions against the myanmar junta.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in myanmar as in ukraine, farther from our eyes but just as brutal, the most brutal violence continues. arrest, bombing, killing of the most defenseless civilians, as always in these situations, women and children, sexual assault, persecution of christians and other minorities, brutal military repression, huge crowds of refugees in need of food and medicine. in short, a humanitarian catastrophe, and once again, it is the defenseless who are hit. in the face of this, i believe that we can no longer accept a general inaction by the international community which is totally inadequate. the un must wake up, and i say this as a passionate un person, it must wake up and take some strong initiatives, independent commissions of inquiry, other initiatives, but above all we are asking the european commission, high commissioner borrell and the whole commission to play a role: the european union must do more, and it must do it first, not leave asia or the other partners alone. the recognition of the government of national opposition unity, humanitarian corridors, arms embargo; in short, all the initiatives that can be taken for a country that has become a symbol of democracy with aung san suu kyi and with a people fighting to defend their democracy and their freedom.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, indeed you are right. this is a matter for the whole commission. this is not only the matter of josep borrell, who cannot be here today because he had to choose how to spend his time in the urgent situation around ukraine especially. he is in versailles in paris on the european council. but indeed, you are right by saying that the public attention is now focused on the war in ukraine and that the gross violations of human rights and disproportionate use of force applied by the military regime in myanmar increased in recent weeks and months. and this must not be forgotten or we should not lose sight of these horrifying situations. the country’s democratic transition has been halted with disastrous humanitarian, social, security, economic and human rights consequences. the myanmar military increased arbitrary detentions and used ever more torture, sexual and gender—based violence, persecution of civil society, human rights defenders and journalists, as well as attacks on the civilian population, including ethnic and religious minorities. according to the united nations, half of the population is now living under the poverty level. our policy response is robust and coordinated with like—minded partners. it supports asean and united nations efforts in devising a peaceful solution to the crisis. we have imposed sanctions, withheld or reoriented development assistance and stepped up humanitarian support. on 21 february, the eu adopted a fourth package of restrictive measures. these add to the existing eu restrictive measures, including an arms embargo. all sanctions now apply to a total of 65 individuals and 10 entities. this now also includes the myanmar oil and gas enterprise, the country’s main petrol producer. it is key to cut the financial resources of the military junta while seeking to avoid unnecessary suffering for the myanmar population. in parallel, the eu and its member states remain one of the most important donors in myanmar with the envelope of eur 65 million. in response to the needs, the eu has provided over eur 23 million in 2021. so far, it is the eu’s policy to maintain our unilateral trade preferences under the everything but arms scheme, with a view to avoiding to harm the most vulnerable, particularly female workers in the garment sector. the scheme contributes to the strengthening of the resilience of the general population. as regards justice and accountability, we increased our financial support to the un independent investigative mechanism for myanmar by eur 1 million. at the multilateral level, we will present a resolution at the un human rights council to help ensure that the human rights situation in myanmar remains high on the agenda of the international community. let me also inform you that we have appointed the eu ambassador to asean to be also our new special envoy to myanmar to support the efforts of the un and asean’s special envoys and to reach out to other international and regional actors. let me assure you, the crisis in ukraine does not mean we forget the acute suffering of the people of myanmar. the eu keeps all policy options under review, with the aim of supporting the people of myanmar and bringing the country back to a path towards democracy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. it's been over a year since the military coup in burma. as vice-president of the asean delegation to the ep, i am following with concern the developments and the very difficult situation of the people of burma, who are deprived of basic democratic rights such as freedom of speech and religion. moreover, there is discrimination against foreigners and religious and ethnic minorities. suffice it to say that since the military coup, 35 attacks on churches, places of worship and people of faith, including christians and muslims, have been documented. burma is not alone. i would like to emphasise the commitment of asean, which is constantly trying to find a peaceful solution to the current crisis, and the humanitarian aid that the eu is providing to burma. in 2021, the eu allocated eur 23 million, among others, to help refugees from burma seeking refuge in neighbouring countries. part of this aid was also allocated to help fight the covid-19 pandemic. i look forward to further steps to stabilise the situation in burma. the leaders of the military coup should feel very strongly that their actions are not authorized.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on destruction of cultural heritage in nagorno—karabakh (2022/2582(rsp))*. _______________* see minutes.
author. president, president aliyev of azerbaijan is taking good care of himself and his family. their fortunes are now estimated at several billion. we see in him what we see in many despots: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, corruption, money laundering, the arrest of political opponents, and the violation of human rights. but there's more. azerbaijan makes the lives of the people of nagorno-karabakh impossible every day. this week: artillery fire. this week: closure of a gas pipeline. the lives of the people of nagorno-karabakh are threatened every day. and there are a lot of other missing people that we never heard from again. but above all, we see that under aliyev's leadership the cultural heritage of nagorno-karabakh is being destroyed, systematically destroyed. churches, historic buildings, monuments and other places are being destroyed. and so the cultural heritage of nagorno-karabakh is being destroyed. this parliament is unanimous. we are largely united in our condemnation of this violence by azerbaijan and our condemnation of the 'armenophobia' of the regime in baku. and we call on unesco to expedite a fact-finding mission to the country, to nagorno-karabakh, to see how serious the situation is. we hope and pray for change. we hope and pray for justice. and we say no to regimes that destroy other people's lives!
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, cultural heritage, national or religious, is a representation of people’s identity. these artefacts, buildings and monuments are built with the greatest care and devotion. it is something that people are proud of. respect and protection of cultural heritage is not only part of our european values and european neighbourhood policy, it is also enshrined in several international conventions and treaties. if these monuments are destroyed or desecrated, it is an insult and a direct attack. by erasing cultural heritage, history is altered. the evidence of the existence of an entity vanishes. in conflict areas, such as in and around nagorno-karabakh, monuments and religious buildings are often targeted because of their symbolic value, something i deeply deplore and strongly condemn. it is just thanks to the inherent meaning that cooperation on, and mutual respect for, cultural heritage has a power of reconciliation, a power to promote coexistence, a power that can lead to peace. first is to take stock of the status of cultural heritage in the region. i call on unesco and the international community to urgently organise a fact—finding mission in and around nagorno-karabakh and i call on the states of azerbaijan and armenia to fully cooperate. unesco’s motto is that war starts in people’s heads, and it’s there where peace begins.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the destruction and desecration of cultural monuments of religious or national heritage is a violation of international law and the principles of the european union, to which we are all committed and which we serve. and when the destruction or desecration is carried out by a systematic plan following the predominance of the force of arms, this violation constitutes cultural genocide and crime, wherever it occurs: whether in palmyra, syria, by the islamic state, or in occupied cyprus, by turkey, or in nagorno-karabakh, by azerbaijan, which we are considering today. the events reveal cultural genocide against the centuries-old culture of the armenians in nagorno karabakh, which is a systematic state policy of azerbaijan. the refusal of azerbaijan to allow unesco access must come at a cost. in the case before us, there are criminal liabilities. will the international criminal court in the hague act against authoritarian dictators who commit these crimes, crimes against civilization and humanity? culture is a means of approach, not a means of hatred.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, i would first like to thank those who have ensured that the issue of nagorno-karabakh is on the agenda of this session. eighteen months after the aggression of the baku dictatorship against the armenian people of artsakh, the situation remains worrying and tensions are very high. the defeat of the armenian forces created serious imbalances in the relations between armenia and the neighbouring states of turkey and azerbaijan. with the proposal we are voting on today, we are providing welcome support to those who are rightly concerned about their future. the denial of armenian cultural heritage and the destruction of buildings by the azerbaijani army in the territories they conquered by the force that is witness to it are the prelude to new aggressions. artsakh is still under threat of ethnic cleansing. with our support, the armenian people are stronger and the belligerent intentions of their neighbours will be more easily defeated. there are no two belligerents in nagorno-karabakh who neutralize each other: there is an aggressor and there is a victim. the aggressor is a dictatorship. the victim is a democracy and it is very weak. europe must stand by armenia and contribute to preventing the risk of a new war.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the fate of cultural heritage in armed conflict is a matter of utmost importance. i dedicated a lot of my time in the parliament to this issue. that includes, of course, nagorno-karabakh. yes, we have to remember that both sides in recent phases of conflict used a lot of information – actually, disinformation – using it as warfare, actually, so we have to rely on impartial sources like unesco's mission. that is a fact finding mission that is to be sent to the region. we have to support this and to remember the role of russia, that always wants to ignite the conflict and benefit from escalation.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i welcome the call to allow unesco access to cultural heritage sites in nagorno-karabakh to assess the damage and take steps towards preservation. the eu also has a role to play in the wider region that has seen conflict in recent times. i travelled to iraq last year and met a lot of religious and political public officials. we heard that there used to be eu delegations going to iraq regularly and cooperating on archaeological digs and restoration. it was perceived as being incredibly helpful by the iraqis and they are really disappointed that it’s not happening anymore because obviously it was stopped by the invasion by the us and allies and the bombing. sadly, the war gave rise to isis and allowed groups like al-qaeda to flourish and these groups in particular have done untold damage to architectural and cultural heritage. today, the western—backed saudi coalition are actually deliberately targeting extraordinary cultural heritage. we need to stop all this bombing and militarism everywhere and start to rebuild and preserve the artefacts of our common history. we helped to destroy it. we should help to fix it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, well i think that we’re in front of a new, important scandal and now affecting a swiss bank. well, the record of problems of the swiss financial sector are well known. i know the commissioner just said that probably under their assessment switzerland maybe should not be in the aml blacklist yet. well, one of the problems maybe is how do we do that list and what kind of criteria do we use? and this is something as well that the fact that switzerland is not yet in that list should also make a reflection on how are we using and how are we making that listing. secondly, i think that the cooperation with third countries should be improved. i think this is something that we can also take as a conclusion of this scandal, particularly because we don’t have enough bilateral agreements with some countries where we know aml enforcement is really a problem. and also, we need to be aware that those kinds of problems can also happen at some point in the eu because we have real problems yet on the implementation and enforcement of amld5, for instance, which is not fully implemented. so i think that once again this scandal should give us an impulse to improve our legislation and our measures.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, i think it’s ironic that we’re calling this debate ‘suisse secrets’, given it’s absolutely no secret at all the role played by switzerland in facilitating global financial crime. it’s been carrying out this global daylight robbery for years, and the billions and billions credit suisse accumulates every year by criminal elites has been permitted in the name of profit maximisation and western enrichment. and we have to say that the eu has been complicit by failing to call switzerland out. and we heard it again tonight. excuses before, ‘oh, it might damage the banking sector’ but we’ve no problem in listing the likes of afghanistan, syria, yemen and so on, countries where there’s hardly a banking sector at all. we’ve got to get real about this. western financial secrecy centres in the netherlands, in luxembourg and at home in ireland are complicit in this system. these cross-border transfers take over a trillion dollars every year, gutting southern and developing nations. this isn’t our money. the eu will have no credibility unless we deal with all of these issues.
mr. president, this scandal reveals what is still a fact. the fact is that there is a sector in swiss banking which does not cooperate against money laundering and does not meet the common standards of information when dealing with high-risk clients. all this is taking place in the context of the sanctions imposed by the european union against the russian oligarchs and underlines the strategic and geopolitical vulnerability of any failure to combat money laundering. but this european parliament is committed, as is shown by the fact that we are currently legislating on nothing less than the new package of measures to combat money laundering: five regulations, one of which concerns a central european anti-money laundering authority. any bank that breaks the law, including swiss banking, must be subject not only to due diligence but to sanctions so that stricter laws are imposed. and we must ensure that the european banking authority exercises its supervisory role over financial intelligence units in relation to national anti-money laundering authorities. only then can we learn from every fact or every scandal.
(start of speech off mike) … revelations about the practices of credit suisse and their secretive clientele. i support the recommendations of transparency international, which calls for extra supervision of mechanisms by national supervisory authorities, centralised and verified beneficial ownership registers and strong punitive action against misbehaving banks. however, does it really come as any surprise to us that swiss banks have dodgy customers? we’ve known this for years. why did it take a whistle—blower to start this discussion? sure, we should tackle anti—money laundering (aml) practices on the eu’s doorstep, but we also have to look inside our own house. we have countries like barbados and the cayman islands on the aml blacklist, but not switzerland or even the uk. what are we doing about the weaknesses in our own system? we have countries like ireland, luxembourg and the netherlands where shell companies and transparency laws make it nearly impossible to see who owns what or where the money is coming from. we do need to tackle anti—money laundering, but we need to tackle it everywhere.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, it’s hard to wonder is there anyone listening at this time of night? hopefully there is. oligarchs aren’t something that many people said an awful lot about up until the last while but now all the cool kids in class hate them, despise them and they want to do something about them. well, here’s your chance. try and do something about them. take them on. this report, it’s not perfect but it says a lot of good things, as would an awful lot of reports in parliament; they say an awful lot of good things but they never happen. and they probably never happen because usually the people who put these words down in the first place don’t really want it to happen. they just want to make it seem like it’s going to happen. the report includes a strong focus on transparency. it considers, worryingly, the increase in oligarch structures within the union which are actively using eu funds. it says all the right things and while it’s good, and essentially we’ve got to chase after oligarchs that misuse eu funds, we’ve also got a problem with people who legally use eu funds in the most dodgy way possible, but the law allows them to. so maybe we just need to tackle them as well. i’ll be voting for the report. i won’t be holding my breath whether you’ll do anything about them.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, european funds must be managed and used in a transparent way. it is a legal obligation, but it is also a way of respecting the efforts of european citizens who contribute their taxes to the union budget. fraud, misuse of funds, is not acceptable, is not admissible. and that is why it is required that the member states, the governments, do their best and commit themselves. i do not understand, for example, why all the beneficiaries, their projects and the amounts that are approved, the type and location are not made publicly available on an online platform. only this would allow tracing and would also, for example, avoid duplication. it is also necessary to avoid the mistakes that often result from bad legislation, legislation that is not simple, legislation that is not clear and that is ambiguous. and in this respect too, there is an effort to be made, because there are many beneficiaries who make mistakes, in good faith, and are then penalized, and we must never confuse mistakes with fraud.
madam president, of course, combating oligarchic structures and protecting european funds, but also national funds, must be the concern of the european commission, the parliament and the member states, because, in the end, this money, whether european or national, must reach the citizen. unfortunately, i have to say that right now, as we speak, we don't have a real fraud situation because the reporting system in the 27 states is different. so some states report both suspected fraud and fraud. other countries only report fraud, as olaf actually states in its report. as happened with my country, romania, which, look, is listed in this report as being at the top, but actually reported to one place and the suspicion of fraud. i believe, commissioner, that this own-initiative report can help the commission to come up with measures, on the one hand, to increase transparency and, on the other, to provide uniform reporting so that we do not compare apples with pears. and obviously, all the metrics that we use have to be quantifiable, because this money has to go to the beneficiaries.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to those who are still here after 11 p.m. the european budget is already too small, it is said over and over again, so there is no question of leaving it to the mercy of predators. as in russia, europe has its oligarchs, and, as in russia, they thrive on the flaws of the system. they threaten our democracy by taking a share of our common resources. protecting our financial interests from predators is essential to restore public confidence and respect for public money. to combat the opacity that favours misappropriation, we need european and even global registers of beneficiaries of assets. today, no european country requires the registration of beneficial owners of assets such as real estate, yachts, private jets and works of art. this means that the countries are blind, because they have no way of knowing who owns the billions of assets held in the territories. let us open the eyes of the tax administrations and set up such registers for a more transparent europe, with the means to defend itself against predators.
madam president, dear colleagues, oligarchs are a danger for our democracy. they exert political influence. they affect the functioning of our economy. they are a threat to public budgets and they are a threat to taxes paid by citizens and by honest enterprises. during the next seven years, the european union will spend more money than ever from the budget of the european union and from the recovery and resilience facility, and one thing is clear: the more we spend, the more we need to make sure that money really reaches the people that the money is intended for. large amounts require strong controls, so we have to do two things: make sure that the money reaches the beneficiaries that it is intended for; and number two, that it is adequately spent. commissioner, i welcome what you said on data, on making sure that we know where money gets to. and for this reason, we are calling on the european commission to put forward a single interoperable database so that we know where all categories of eu funds are going. member states should use the large amounts of funds for digital investment to create such a database. it is our duty to fight fraud irregularities in the eu and everywhere where eu funds are involved.
madam president, oligarchs and corruption are a feature of [inaudible] capitalism. you become a billionaire by stealing, by collusion with politicians, the media and government officials and then you have influence over those who help you to the top. a billionaire is an oligarch. europe has more billionaires than any other continent. germany has more billionaires than anyone else in europe. germany’s oligarchs increased their wealth by nearly eur 200 billion in the first year of the pandemic alone. but by their complete omission from this report, we are to believe those eu contracts that helped enrich germany’s oligarchs were the result of fair play and hard work and nothing to do with their influence over eu politics and the endlessly documented revolving door fiasco going on between the commission, the council, parliament and europe’s capitalist industrial giants. seven eu countries are openly facilitating corruption and theft of billions in government revenue and no one cares. this report is only nibbling around the edges.
madam president, there hasn’t been a better – or should i say worse – example of oligarchic structures or fraud of eu funds than that of bulgaria and the carry-on of the gerb party, and boyko borisov in particular, which has gone unchallenged for years as a result of their insidious grip on state power, which has degraded the livelihoods of bulgarian citizens for years. it’s also gone on because of the support in here from the epp group, which we heard articulated earlier by manfred weber. and it took the people of bulgaria to get to the streets, to hold elections, to put the spotlight on and elect a new government to deal with these issues. and when they tried, they met the challenge of state capture: the prosecutor’s office, the supreme judicial council, the anti-corruption committee, all captured by gerb and borisov’s henchmen. so there was euphoria last week when the eppo arrested him and took him into custody on 120 fraud cases amounting to billions of lev from the bulgarian people and of eu funds. his release afterwards has been met with dismay. i know there’s people in here batting for him, but that is going to be a test on the eppo whether he fails or not.
president. - the european central bank is increasingly in the political chair. inflation is breaking record after record, but the ecb seems obsessed with a politically coloured agenda of climate change risks. last week , ecb governor isabel schnabel spoke of a new era of inflation: the eu is also working to reduce the number of people living in poverty by reducing the number of people who are unemployed. meanwhile, the citizens pay the price: the cost of groceries is rising, and a liter of petrol is already over two euros in many countries. this is an untenable situation, especially with economic growth stagnating. inflation is ultimately the result of a central bank's policy, and a central bank can only function if it is politically independent. the ecb is accountable to the european parliament, but i hardly hear anyone talking about this in this house. the ecb must return to its mandate. that is price stability. and for that, we need a strong currency in the hands of an apolitical central bank.
madam president, we must give peace a chance. it is urgent to stop the war in ukraine. a war that should never have started, that does not serve the people of ukraine, the people of russia or the people of europe. it serves the military-industrial complex or those who profit from speculation and at the expense of imposing sanctions which will be paid by the workers and the people, attacking rights and living conditions. it is not by increasing the policy and measures which are at the root of the escalation of conflict in europe that peace will be achieved. it is necessary to develop initiatives for dialogue that will put an end to the war and allow a negotiated settlement of the conflict. we must take steps to respond to the problems of collective security and disarmament in a europe which affirms and puts peace and cooperation between peoples on the horizon, in compliance with international law and the charter of the united nations and the final act of the helsinki conference.
madam president, under the cover of un resolution 2216, the us and saudi gave themselves permission to use violence in yemen in an effort to reinstate the corrupt and incompetent president hadi, who had been rejected by the people of yemen. for the last seven years, us- and british—made planes have been dropping bombs on the poorest country in the middle east, while well—paid public relations firms justify what’s called a war crime elsewhere. the western—backed saudi—uae coalition targets everything from transport infrastructure, bridges, roads, ports to food processing plants, farmlands, food stores, markets and water wells. the resulting famine has almost been kept out of the media. isa blumi, one of the few journalists who has reported on the famine, argues that starvation is strategic rather than collateral. according to the un, almost 400 000 are dead, 16 million have been pushed into severe poverty. why is the european union silent about the worst humanitarian crisis on the planet? are these people not worthy of our compassion?
madam president, i have to say, i was very glad earlier to see the parliament’s afghan delegation being very quick to come out with a statement and strongly condemn the taliban’s disgraceful decision to deny girls the right to go to school. but unfortunately, the effectiveness of that statement is undermined by the fact that it is in sharp contrast with the months of inaction and silence in relation to the gratuitous killing of thousands of afghans as a result of the illegally imposed us sanctions on a country already coping with drought; our silence about the robbery of eur 7 billion of afghan financial resources by us war criminal, joe biden – money that is needed to feed and import food. this economic warfare has resulted in what the un has called a food insecurity and malnutrition crisis of unprecedented proportions. some 13 000 newborns dead, more dying than will die in the conflict. this is man-made. it doesn’t have to be so. why aren’t we demanding a lifting of the sanctions and the giving-back of afghanistan its money?
mr president, the energy charter treaty is a relic of a fossil-fuel past and beyond reform. the eu is probably wasting its time by engaging in a reform process that isn’t going anywhere. the reforms will not be coherent with the paris agreement targets and the european green deal, for three main reasons: it won’t immediately end protection for all fossil fuel investments. at best, existing coal, gas and oil investments would continue to be protected well into the mid-2030s. secondly, it won’t end the old investor-state dispute—settlement system. this is not even part of the negotiations. and thirdly, it won’t guarantee states’ rights to regulate by introducing effective limits to investors’ rights. also, the proposals to include hydrogen and biomass in the list of energy technologies that are protected under the treaty will only increase the risk of investor-state dispute—settlement challenges. the energy charter treaty cannot be modernised or fixed, and the eu should withdraw from the treaty.
mr president, i’d like to thank the rapporteur for her work on this file. it definitely strengthens consumer rights and i really welcome that. the ability to move around the eu without being landed with extortionate roaming fees is key to our mobility and our freedoms, and that is why i voted for the file. but i think we have to step back and look at these international roaming fees – why are they so expensive? and it’s because these telecommunication giants are left to exploit people whatever way they like. and i welcome the comments by colleagues yesterday in recognising the efforts to waive those fees for ukrainian refugees. i think we all welcome that. but it goes to show they have the ability to do it. they’re making massive profits as it is, they can easily do that. and while i welcome it for ukrainians, i really hope that they will do that for everybody living in europe and indeed for other refugees and asylum seekers who are coming from desperate situations around the world who need to contact their relatives and loved ones in their home countries as well.
mr president, i voted against this motion. i heard a lot of colleagues talking about support for our friends in moldova, they are part of the european family. well, i don’t know what way you treat your friends and family, but in ireland we wouldn’t be shackling them with a giant loan, with extortionate terms and conditions in that – we’d be giving them grants, we’d be giving them donations. but that’s not what this motion is. this is shackling moldova to crippling neoliberal conditionalities which will impoverish them, which will open up their economy to exploitation, privatisation and undermining of their living conditions. it’s somewhat similar to what we’ve done with ukraine, where they forced the ukrainian state to remove protections such as the sale of state land and so on, in return for a few paltry visa waivers and the like, so we can benefit from the exploitation of ukrainian seasonal labour, or now moldovan seasonal labour. it’s a con job. we voted against it. we should be genuinely supporting our neighbours, not undermining them for neoliberal capitalism.
mr president, there are few case studies like eastern europe that give lie to the myth that capitalism creates a general prosperity. the former soviet republics have been carved up through imf shock therapy, neoliberal economic reforms and an endless series of privatisation scandals ever since 1990, robbing state coffers of the funds needed to address the plight of their people and giving rise to instability and wars. but the wars have been a gift for western centres of financial capitalism. from the bosnian war, to kosovo, to ukraine, reconstruction loans lock these countries into impossible debt traps and further crushing reforms see state assets end up in fire sales to western vultures. moldova and ukraine are two of the poorest countries on the continent, but to paraphrase michael parenti, they are rich, they are not underdeveloped – they are overexploited. the historical record shows that we care about these countries insofar as the imf, the world bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development can carve them up, profit off them and leave them for dead. i voted against.
the commission shall: i voted for this report because moldova is in dire need of help at a time when hundreds, tens of thousands of refugees from ukraine are pouring into the country and its borders. let me remind you that on the territory of moldova there is a territory occupied by russian troops, the so-called "false republic of transnistria", which also poses a certain threat to the state of moldova itself and to peace in the region. but in voting for this report, i would like to draw your attention and that of all my colleagues, mr president, to the fact that the moldovan authorities must be made aware of how they are to deal with the humanitarian aid that is going to ukraine. this weekend, i personally saw, organizing a convoy of humanitarian aid buses that were traveling from bulgaria through romania and through moldova to ukraine, in an attempt by moldovan customs officials, border officials, to create some difficulties when we were transporting food and medical aid through moldova to ukraine. so please pay attention. this aid should be much easier to get through.
mr president, i have to say, this is an absolutely diabolical motion. what could have been an attempt for us to reorganise our agriculture in order to deliver food security has been turned into a retrograde step, literally decimating many of the commitments made in our environmental programmes before us. no recognition of the fact that a stable climate and healthy environment and abundant diversity are necessary for fuel food security. we’re actually undermining our own strategies in this motion. not only that, there’s no mention of the fact that the most efficient way to solve the current food shortages is by transitioning to a more plant-based diet. no mention of the need to stop environmentally unfriendly biofuels, and so on. escalating the sanctions against russia, which will only result in people in countries like afghanistan starving even more than they already are now. we should be dealing with global cooperation, sustainable best practice and support for the global south, rather than continuing the deplorable conditions that have operated.
mr president, there was a piece on the fertiliser crisis on the jerry o’sullivan show on radio kerry in ireland lately. after the show, a farmer contacted jerry. he said, ‘in ireland, we’ve had four fertilizer or fodder crises in the last 12 years’. the farmer said that the intensification of farming, particularly of the dairy sector, was coming back to bite us. ‘farmers have been pushed’, he said, ‘to take four cuts of silage a year. it used to be two.’ he said, ‘we have doubled the amount of stock that the land in ireland can safely take. even if the war stops tomorrow,’ he said, ‘it doesn’t matter. there will be another fodder crisis in a year or two because of the intensity of farming we are now engaged in. we no longer have dairy farms; we have dairy factories.’ now more than ever is the time to accelerate the transition to environmentally and socially sustainable farming practices.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, too little is said about climate change, and yet it is a reality, even in our own latitudes. the data from the ipcc report we are discussing today confirm the gravity of a situation which, if we do not act now and continue to turn the other way, will become the next major emergency against which our generation will have to be measured, already tested by the pandemic and this tragic war in ukraine. and so i say, especially to those who these days want to put the green deal in the drawer because other problems are there, that it is precisely the ecological transition that is the key to responding not only to energy independence from russia, which is absolutely necessary today, but also to climate change and extreme weather events, which are already having an impact on our food security and water scarcity but also, in general, on our economy, because floods and droughts have a cost and, unfortunately, many times, even in terms of human lives. there is a point of no return in the report which we cannot afford to cross, not least because we have all the tools today.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for having this debate, which is certainly timely. the intergovernmental panel report makes it very clear to us that the pace of our actions to achieve the goals is inconsistent with our climate pledges. if we don't change what we're doing in the short and long term, we're not going to be able to contain warming at 1.5 degrees, but we're going to be getting closer to 3.2 degrees. the war in ukraine has dramatically exposed our energy dependence. a dependence on the energy of dictators, of murderers, as we are seeing, of a gas that finances the war in ukraine. some say we should stop our road map. what we really need to do is speed it up, because if not, we will simply be exchanging russian gas for gas from other dictators. only accelerating our roadmap is going to give us a solution.
madam president, mr timmermans, the science of the united nations is reminding us of how climate change is worsening and accelerating. in fact, last week, just last week, in the antarctic and the arctic we had 40 and 30 degrees higher than would be normal at this time of year. at the same time, in southern europe - no need to go any further - in the mediterranean, we have a 1.5 degree increase in temperature compared to the 1.1 degree increase we already have in the planet as a whole. it's one of the most hot spots in this crisis. if this trend continues, we will find ourselves with a shortage of drinking water, while important areas of our coasts may disappear (where tens of millions of people live) or our floods will worsen. we know that it's an irreversible phenomenon, but we can control it by doing what we have to do, which is to end our addiction to fossil fuels. that is why we have the european green deal and why we want to push the whole planet in that direction. a rapid and profound change, because this is the last generation that is likely to be able to stop this climate crisis. but the rest, all the others, will eventually pay the consequences.
madam chair, we can half emissions by 2030. that is the conclusion of today's intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report. and yes, again, it feels like déja vu; another terrifying scientific report on the climate crisis. but it is unequivocal in calling for the end of fossil fuels. europe must be resolute in its response to this existential climate crisis, just as it has responded to ukraine, just as it responded to covid-19. we need to accelerate the shift to clean energy across the entire economy. and one immediate way to do this would be to reject the taxonomy delegated act, which labels gas and nuclear as sustainable. we can't label fossil gas as sustainable. that would add fuel to the fire and diverse hundreds of billions to making the climate crisis worse. it goes completely against what the ipcc and the international energy agency is calling for. colleagues, this must be a call for action to end our addiction to fossil fuels.
madam president, the war in ukraine is pushing us to replace fossil fuels with renewable energy even faster. however, the union is now caught in a shameful contradiction between its interests and its principles. we want to stop the aggression against ukraine, and to contribute to this goal we must stop buying russian gas and oil. but we do not want to bear the consequences of this decision for the european economy. meanwhile, the latest report from the intergovernmental panel on climate change eloquently explains that climate change mitigation requires changes in our consumption patterns that allow our societies to reduce their energy demand. however, we know that paradoxically, these changes can end up costing families more, and the most vulnerable households should not face them without public support: hence the crucial importance of the social climate fund - a fund that requires sufficient funding - to ensure a socially just energy transition, but also to promote income redistribution. only then can we prevent climate change denial populism from conquering the most vulnerable groups and classes in our society.
madam president, ‘global warming reaching 1.5 ° centigrade in the near term would cause unavoidable increases in multiple climate hazards and present multiple risks to ecosystems and humans’. this is a quote from the report. it’s a remarkable statement. are we happy that the 1.5 ° target is actually going to be okay? and commissioner, tell me, are you concerned about the over-reliance on negative-emission technologies that are used in the reports, given that a lot of it has still to be invented? and my last question to you, commissioner: there is definitely a pushback against the new green deal because of the war. don’t you think that it is so, so important that we don’t allow that to happen?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the almost unanimous agreement we signed within the oecd to introduce a minimum tax on multinationals was an important step forward. but it was presented to us as a historic moment: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. too few multinationals included; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, in time these thresholds could be raised but not if this agreement is shielded with the intent of precluding any potential change. the text of the directive, even more so in the council's draft, leaves no room for manoeuvre for future changes to the minimum tax. meanwhile, the us has imposed that other countries withdraw their national digital taxes as soon as the new rules come into force, and this can only be acceptable if it does not block a possible revision of the framework in the future. in a world plagued by pandemics and war, until the corporations pay their fair share, the real price will be paid by all of us.
madam president, mr vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. there is extreme wealth inequality globally and in europe. the pandemic, the war in ukraine, high energy prices, the climate crisis are all exacerbating this wealth inequality. the oecd predicts that without rapid global agreement, we will have to bear high costs, which will have to be borne by the broad masses of the working population. the introduction of a global minimum corporate tax of at least 15 percent - and i emphasize the word "at least" over and over again - can mitigate this huge inequality, and we can also dry up tax havens. the revenue generated not only relieves burdens, but is also suitable for strengthening education and creating jobs. however, it is a minimum tax rate of 15 per cent as the name suggests. our goals are higher. we must make the most of the oecd proposals so that the rich do not get richer and the poor do not get poorer.
mr president, competition on taxation is always a wrong incentive. we have to compete on quality. so it is good that the european commission is coming forward with a minimum tax rate at european level. it is good that european companies that pay their taxes properly can compete fairly with other companies. we must ensure that europe is united in industry and business, that the single market can be used as a lever in the global economy and that europe emerges strong. we can even use tax rates to promote healthy lifestyles, as the commission, the council and parliament have done with 0% vat on fresh fruit and vegetables. we can go much further, because we need a healthy population to survive in a global economy.
madam president, i think that debate was indeed very necessary because tomorrow, probably, the ecofin will fail again on delivering on that deal and it is not exactly that the commission put things very difficult to them. they just copy pasted the international agreement. but in extension to that, we have an extension of the transitional period, now already on the table, some opt outs and not even with that all member states are happy. so, i think we absolutely need to urge poland and estonia to unblock that deal. imagine how the eu would look after all the efforts made at the international level for that if that deal is delayed here. i think this would be totally unacceptable and i think this is why this parliament needed to speak today as it did. and finally, commissioner, a final word on the method and the legal base that we have used. we know unanimity in taxation is a growing problem, more and more. and for that, this parliament has repeatedly called for the use of article 116 for taxation matters to overcome that. this episode that will happen tomorrow is again another reason for reflecting on this.
madam president, thanks to globalisation, economic restructuring and pro—business legislation over recent decades, the rise in the share of national income going to the owners of capital in most countries has increased astronomically. and this legislation doesn’t put enough of a dent in it. the proposed minimum, which has been watered down to 15%, is only barely above the abysmal 12.5% that we have in ireland at the moment. and there’s a fear that it could actually add to the race to the bottom with a 15% global standard, and it’s well below the un call for somewhere between 20 and 30%. more than ever, we need a fair and effective corporate tax system. today, there’s no doubt big business has too much influence over politics, it has too much influence over the decision makers. and it would be wonderful if the eu were to tackle that.
i would ask the house to refrain from embarrassing comments which put this house in a difficult position and also from unpleasant comments. so, mr haider, i think you should apologise for the words you have used, which are not respectful of the commissioner but also of the other members and of this house. catch the eye procedure
madam president, without this standalone revision of the market stability reserve, the intake rate will revert to 12% after 2023. so i support the fast tracking of this standalone revision. however, the current 24% must be the floor and not the ceiling for the intake rate. the market stability reserve has been effective in supporting the ets carbon price signal in recent years, but it was designed to only handle oversupply accumulated in the past. it is not fit to deal with current or future surplus. such surpluses might be the result of, for example, economic downturns, covid or planned coal plant closures. the market stability reserve will therefore need to be strengthened. to effectively handle the market surplus, we need to increase the intake rate to something closer to 35% from 2024 onwards. we need to adopt the planning thresholds and we need an automatic cancellation of allowances held in the reserve for more than three years.
i now give the floor to vice-president timmermans on behalf of the commission, and i would like to express my appreciation and respect for his work, commissioner.
executive vice—president of the commission. – madam president, don’t worry, from that political angle i’ve heard worse in my direction over the last years, and i don’t mind. you know, it’s very difficult to be insulted by someone you don’t take seriously, so don’t worry. but i want to say very briefly –mick wallace described what the function is of the market stability reserve and i couldn’t even put it in better words than he did – but many of the honourable members use this opportunity to speak in wider terms about the emissions trading system (ets), and the function of the ets, so let me just very briefly react on that point. anyone who wants to weaken the functioning of the ets, will prolong the agony of being attached to fossil fuels, including fossil fuels from russia. so anyone who wants to slow down the transition to renewables makes sure that more money will end into the pockets of putin. and this is exactly what we’re trying to stop! that’s why we’ll come with our repowereu initiative to speed up the transition. and i’ve seen this with ets at work last week in sweden, they’re now producing green steel in sweden, steel that is made without emissions; not yet on an industrial scale, but it is possible because of the functioning of the ets market with a reasonable price. it makes it all possible, and it makes europe industrially much, much stronger if we speed up this transition. this is where the world is heading, not just europe, the whole world; and those who seem to advocate a slowing down of the transition to renewables, should pause and think about what that means in present-day europe, where the longer we remain dependent on fossil fuels, the longer we risk co—financing putin’s war. so the faster we transition into renewables, the faster we will be stronger, we will have higher energy sovereignty in europe, we will put the competitiveness of the european industry on a much, much higher scale.
rapporteur. – madam president, thank you to the vice—president of the commission. i cannot but agree with you on all that you have said right now. i would like to first thank all of those who have participated in this debate on the market stability reserve. it is the first out of the legislative files of the fit for 55 package that have come in front of this plenary. and i am very grateful for all the help and cooperation that i have found from all shadow rapporteurs on this important legislative file. our eu ets must remain fit for purpose, and it must ensure and incentivise that all member states keep on working in order to reduce their current emissions and push forward towards a more environmental and green future. so, this is what we have tried to do with this file that we have been discussing today. and i am really sorry to hear those who are at the far right and the conservatives of this chamber who still do not believe in science, who still think that climate change is something that does not affect our planet, and who still believe that they can simply ignore it. we do not ignore it, and we want to keep on legislating in order for our european union to remain the most ambitious continent in this planet, in order to reach our objectives. so i really look forward and encourage all parliament to give a strong and broad support to this file tomorrow in our vote in order to have a very strong hand when it comes to negotiating this with other institutions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 5 april 2022.
the agenda includes the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on transport and tourism on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2006/1/ec on the use of vehicles hired without drivers for the carriage of goods by road (13531/1/2021 - c9-0014/2022 - 2017/0113 ((cod)) (rapporteur: cláudia monteiro de aguiar) (a9-0041/2022).
the debate we are bringing to this house today is the culmination of a vast legislative work carried out in recent years to demonstrate the importance of the road logistics sector and the relevance it has for the world economy, for the european economy and how it directly impacts the daily lives of european citizens. while we were fully aware of the importance of this sector, the pandemic crisis has made it even more urgent to ensure greater flexibility for transport companies, demonstrating that the market for driverless vehicles for the transport of goods needs to be adapted to the current reality, as a result of changes in socioeconomic contexts. we believe that companies should be given more flexibility to be able to respond better to, for example, spikes in demand. we believe that freight forwarders or self-employed firms should be given greater financial freedom to rent vehicles rather than buy them. this is to enable companies to be run more efficiently and to ensure that the vehicles rented are newer, safer, less polluting and therefore more sustainable. and sustainability is also advocated by us when we encourage the reduction of the number of empty return journeys, in order to achieve the ambitious climate goals and targets that we set ourselves to achieve. the sector is now faced with rules on the use of hired vehicles which have been in place for at least 30 years, rules which for example prohibit the use of vehicles hired and registered in another member state. now, we have 27 different kinds of rules that force companies into a tangle of red tape, restrictions and uncertainties. we therefore conclude that renting vehicles is practically impossible in the internal market, which is why companies are looking to rent-to-buy. the member states where there are more restrictions are precisely those where this type of market and rental is less developed, not promoting economies of scale, nor the potential development offered by the internal market. the agreement reached, which we shall be voting on, is therefore intended to clarify the rules and to gradually harmonize the legal framework of this rental market. i would like to stress three points. firstly, to ensure greater flexibility for transport companies and self-employed operators, by giving them more options to meet their real and current needs, by encouraging entrepreneurship, by allowing them to allocate resources in the best possible way, and by making this commitment to environmental gains on the one hand and to greater promotion of road safety on the other. secondly, to allow for a gradual opening up of the market. the vast majority of member states are not allowed to restrict the use on their territory of a vehicle hired by a company established in another member state. and finally, the imposition of safeguards. since the level of taxation on road transport varies substantially within the union, member states may continue to restrict, within certain limits, the use of vehicles hired and registered in another member state, taking into account three issues: the proportion, i.e. vehicles hired and registered in a member state, cannot represent more than 25% of the fleet at the company's disposal. duration of rental periods: the minimum period in the rented and registered vehicle is two months, which may be reduced to 30 days if national rules allow it. and finally, operations on your own. there may be restrictions on vehicles rented and registered in another member state. finally, i'm finished. in order to improve compliance with all these rules, national authorities will have to include in national electronic registers the registration numbers of vehicles rented and registered in other member states. i believe that with this agreement we are putting forward a proposal which recognises the importance of implementing common rules which, at the end of the day, make it easier for road logistics companies operating in, for example, both portugal and romania.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission made its proposal to revise the eu rules on hired vehicles in june 2017. almost five years ago. it is the last piece of legislation from the mobility package. the objective of this revision was to achieve greater flexibility for companies in the use of hired vehicles by removing some of the possibilities to restrict the use of such vehicles which exist for member states under the current directive. this is exactly what the final agreement is about. although the initial positions of the european parliament and of member states diverged in some parts, a carefully balanced political agreement was found last year. i think we can all be proud of the result achieved. the commission is in favour of the agreement for a number of reasons. first of all, limitations can now only be introduced by member states for their own undertakings, while the existing directive allowed restrictions on the hiring of vehicles also for foreign undertakings. this is a huge step for more flexibility of the whole sector. secondly, member states must grant at least 30 days to their own undertakings for the hire of vehicles with foreign number plates, without the need for a national registration of the vehicles. and this will allow, in particular, taking into account seasonal needs, which was one of the main purposes of the revision. member states which would like to grant longer periods of complete freedom for the use of hired vehicles with foreign number plates can of course continue to do so. and thirdly, any possibilities for restrictions for undertakings performing on account of relations with domestic hired vehicles have been taken out of the directive. such restrictions will, in the future, only be allowed for vehicles that are registered in another member state. this remaining restriction can be justified since member states could otherwise not exert any control over such vehicles as they are not registered in the national registers of road haulage undertakings. furthermore, since the revised legislation will likely increase the use of hired vehicles, as such vehicles are often newer and more environmentally friendly, the solution is also beneficial for the achievement of the objectives of the european green deal. honourable members, thank you for your attention and i look forward to your comments.
on behalf of the ppe group. the president, the commissioner, in the european union, we still transport most goods and people by road, even though we want to shift as much freight as possible to rail as part of the green deal. the current directive on driverless car hire is outdated and a revision of the directive is therefore necessary, and above all it must respond to current needs and the increasing flow of goods within the european union. our aim is to ensure fair competition, simplify existing rules and also guarantee the rights of workers in this sector. we must also take into account the fact that in some countries there is a shortage of drivers, so our legislation must be even more flexible. above all, the legislation must be as uniform as possible and not cause additional problems for drivers. that is why we are the european union, and we have common rules to make life and work as easy as possible for our citizens, to increase efficiency and reduce transport costs. too often i meet people who complain about the unreasonable rules we helped to make. i believe that we always, in the best of faith, do the right thing, but we have not put ourselves in the shoes of the citizens who have to enforce these rules. it's nice to hear someone praise our efforts.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i have the honour to present the position of our shadow rapporteur, mr andris ameriks. this dossier is of importance to complete our comprehensive mobility package. after years of work on this file, interinstitutional negotiations have made great progress, and we have a good text on the table. this directive will help the hauliers to operate better, and to be able to manage in an effective and efficient way instabilities caused by technical and seasonal reasons. rules on the use of hired vehicles should be based on common, clear and fair rules. at the same time, the rules should not limit the free movement of services within the european union, while taking into account the fiscal differences between member states. therefore, i support this proposal and its adoption in order to improve our transport industry, making it more arranged, fairer and favourable to all stakeholders.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, thank you to the rapporteur, cláudia monteiro, and to all our technical teams for such an important work on this report. this agreement on the use of driverless hire vehicles for road freight transport offers new tools for professionals to improve the services they provide, make progress in the decarbonisation of transport and level the playing field across the european union. this completes another piece of the so-called 'mobility package', a key piece to guide the transition of this sector and to make the most of the capillarity and flexibility it brings to mobility as a whole. with this agreement, logistics costs will come down, because operating costs are coming down for many companies. the use of cleaner and more efficient vehicles will be promoted and there will be more flexibility to deal with unforeseen events or to deal with breakdowns in fleets. employment will also increase in leasing and rental companies, which will have new business opportunities and more market opportunities as a result of this regulation. finally, we added another tool to combat fragmentation. until now, differences in the law on the use of this resource in the various member states have been a factor distorting competition in the internal market.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am pleased to see this proposal become legislation because allowing the greater use of hired vehicles across borders can mean more opportunities for businesses to use vehicles that they may not have the power to buy or have access to in their own country. it can also mean less emissions if these vehicles are cleaner. and that’s something that tends to be the case with hired vehicle fleets. however, there is some uncertainty regarding the impact on member state tax revenues or the overall environmental cost at the european union level. so i’m glad that the member states have the option to limit the use of hired vehicles on their territories should they so wish, as some safeguards are needed. more europe can be good and i think it will be in this instance, but let’s see how it works out. that the commission must report on the impact of the legislation, i think will be hugely informative in this regard. so, i welcome the proposal and i look forward to seeing how it works out in practice.
madam president, this report completely omits the fact that ireland, which lost 15% of its quota under the agreement, was proportionately substantially more impacted by the trade and cooperation agreement than any other member state. it is absolutely essential that the review of the common fisheries policy scheduled for this year addresses the hugely disproportionate impact of brexit on the irish fishing industry, including the imbalances in the quota transfers under the trade and cooperation agreement. the common fisheries policy, including its utterly outdated relative stability principle, has slowly strangled irish fishing and coastal communities for almost 40 years. no more than 50% of the gross tonnage and kilowatt power of the total boats fishing between ireland’s 12—mile limit and the 200—mile limit should come from outside of ireland. the common fisheries policy needs to be radically changed to reflect the realities of climate change and the political realities of brexit. this is a once—in—a—generation opportunity to save fishing communities all around ireland.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much again for this good debate tonight and for the important work that has gone into this initiative report. yes, fisheries in the north-east atlantic may be structured differently following the departure of the united kingdom, but allow me to once again stress that the fundamental principles of the eu’s engagement in the north—east atlantic remain unchanged. the commission will continue to engage for fisheries that are economically, socially and environmentally sustainable, both for fish stocks managed by the eu alone and for those shared with our international partners. let me briefly comment on a couple of points you raised tonight. you stressed the need to be vigilant that the united kingdom complies with the conditions of the tca and that it should strongly respond if the united kingdom were to act in a discriminatory manner. the united kingdom is now a third country, and as such it can take autonomous decisions that diverge from the common fisheries policy. however, the trade and cooperation agreement requires that measures that are likely to affect the vessels of the other party are notified before they are applied. they must comply with the objectives and principles of the agreement and be non-discriminatory, proportionate and based on the best available scientific advice. we have already agreed with the united kingdom that we will work together in the specialised committee on fisheries to set up a joint notification protocol. dear members of the parliament, you also mentioned the need to ensure that reciprocal access to waters and fisheries resources is maintained after 30 june 2026, and that there are no further reductions of quotas for eu fishers after the end of the transition period. the trade and cooperation agreement sets out quota shares for the eu and the united kingdom that are adjusted over a five—year period until 2026. after 2026, these quota shares for the total allowable catches managed bilaterally remain stable. there is absolutely no intention of renegotiating this. reciprocal access to waters is a separate issue. in line with the tca this access will need to be renegotiated every year from 2026 onwards as part of the annual consultations on fishing opportunities. we believe there is an interest on both sides to grant such reciprocal access and we count on both parties to continue negotiating fishing opportunities after 2026 in good faith and ensuring a mutually satisfactory balance. we will not hesitate to defend an interest of the eu’s fleets or enforce compensatory measures in line with the provisions of the trade and cooperation agreement, should the need arise. honourable members, dear colleagues, in conclusion, let me underline that we will fully live up to the commitments we have made under the common fisheries policy, under the trade and cooperation agreement, and in our annual consultations with our partners around the atlantic. and we fully expect our partners to do the same. thank you once again for your attention.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 april 2022. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the impact of brexit is still being felt in the fisheries sector today. after 2026, the catch will have to be reduced by 25%, which will have a big impact, especially on smaller fishermen. the uncertain future creates a lack of stability and support for our european (and certainly flemish) fisheries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. today i am also calling on all member states to make good use of the resources of the brexit fund. the fishing industry is being hit hard and so it certainly deserves its share of the cake. the impact of further offshore wind farms on fish stocks and the economic impact on fishermen should also be further investigated and taken into account when rolling out those plans. let us be especially vigilant in the months ahead and protect our fishermen from worse.
the agenda includes a brief presentation of the report by mr adrián vázquez lázara on the protection of the rights of minors in civil, administrative and family proceedings (2021/2060 (ini)) (a9-0033/2022).
the rapporteur. madam president, the report i am presenting to this house today focuses on the protection of the rights of the child in civil, administrative and family law proceedings. the main objective is to achieve juvenile justice through common standards and recommendations across the european union to ensure three key elements. the first is a treatment adapted to the age, maturity and needs of each child undergoing judicial proceedings. the second is effective access for children to justice and, where necessary, free legal representation by public authorities and also other ancillary services such as psychological counselling, which is very necessary, as we know, in traumatic cases for children, such as divorce proceedings. and the third is better training of judges and legal professionals in skills to deal with children whose future is decided in a judicial or administrative proceeding. the report also includes mediation as a means of resolving disputes affecting minors. we therefore urge the commission to come forward with a new regulation regulating crossborder mediation affecting minors through common rules ensuring the recognition and enforcement of agreements reached in these procedures; also that the quality of crossborder mediators can be in some way assured or confirmed through a european mediation certificate, and also with common rules for crossborder mediation contracts. we also urge member states that have not yet done so to set up mediation offices to inform parents and children concerned about the possibility of using mediation as a less aggressive method than traditional litigation, to ensure free legal assistance where necessary and to explore the use of new technologies in mediation frameworks. last but not least, when writing this report we have thought - very much - of parents like marton and adam, who wanted to start a family in hungary and were unable to do so because the hungarian constitution only recognises families made up of heterosexual couples. marton and adam wanted to adopt a child, but ultimately that child could only be legally adopted by one parent, by adam, for all intents and purposes. therefore, before the law, marton is not the father of his son andris for legal purposes. in this sense, i believe that this report can be a first step in many others that will have to be taken so that the member states will comply with the judgments on the recognition of paternity of lgtbi families and that all these families with two parents or two mothers will be able to see the recognition of paternity of their children before the law, as they are today.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for presenting this very important report. i find it very balanced. indeed, justice should be child-friendly at all stages of the proceedings concerning children's rights. every child must be heard, regardless of social, economic and ethnic background, and must enjoy all rights. there are a number of other aspects. that procedure must be conducted by a judge who is an expert in his field, who is sensitive. at the same time, the child should be questioned in a friendly environment. it is also necessary to protect the best interests of the child in cross-border civil disputes in order to enforce judgments in cross-border disputes effectively. and i am very grateful to the rapporteur for mentioning the recognition of parental rights for same-sex couples, because it is the rights of children that should be at the forefront of our minds. we must treat the child in the justice system with all its full rights and with full respect.
madam president, thanks to the rapporteur. i think it’s a very worthwhile piece of work on your part. and i’m just kind of wondering what kind of a role the eu can play. i’m just conscious of the challenges at home in ireland at the moment. i mean, you mentioned taking into account the age and needs of the children, the free legal representation and psychological support, and training of judges. i mean, my god, what challenges have we got there? and the mediation offices that need to be put into the structures. these are massive challenges. to be honest, i’m totally innocent as to how much of a role the eu can play. i know some things are the competency of member states, so i’m curious as to how much of a strong role the european union can actually play in pressuring the member states to do things so much better, because it’s a huge area where things leave so much to be desired.
mr president, we need a rapid review of the vat directive. there is no point in us continuing to wait and prevaricate any further. it has been agreed by the council and by the minister of finance that there is a fundamental need for us to have flexibility at member state level in terms of the vat directive. we are now talking about the decision being made in april or may of this year to afford countries the flexibility to reduce vat on home heating oil and other fuels. bearing in mind that bills are now at their highest because of the fact that we are coming out of the winter, and by the time we make this decision, bills will already have been paid and we won’t need the vat directive reductions at that stage at all, it will have no meaningful impact. so i urge the commission to make the decision quickly to allow the flexibility to member states to reduce the vat rates on home heating oil and other fuels, to ensure that we lighten the burden, that we reduce the burden on families that are already very hard pressed. so i ask the commission to act quickly on this issue.
mr president, in his excellent book the economic weapon: the rise of sanctions as a tool of modern war, nicholas mulder explains how economic sanctions, though meant to function as an alternative to war, are modelled on devastating techniques of warfare. sanctions are a form of war, and often the consequences are shocking. some 500 000 children died in iraq because of sanctions; 40 000 people died in venezuela in recent years because of illegal us sanctions; tens of thousands have died in syria because of us and european sanctions. what are the sanctions that the eu has imposed on russia going to do? most sanctions are illegal unless mandated by the un. are our sanctions on russia going to stop the war? we don’t think so. are they designed to undermine the russian economy? sure, but will those in the kremlin suffer? i doubt it. will the ordinary russian people suffer? absolutely. have we any idea of the devastation that we may cause to women, children, the elderly and the less well-off in russia with sanctions that are not stopping the war? what are we doing?
mr president, we are in a serious, unprecedented child protection crisis, and it’s of an enormous scale. the brutality inflicted on ukraine in places like bucha, mariupol, odesa and kharkiv are war crimes. murder, torture, rape, death, adults brutalised and traumatised. imagine what it is like as a child. just imagine. this is the devastation of ukraine, for all of us to see. children separated from their families, as families are torn apart, their security gone. strange places, strange journeys, new countries, new languages. this is the traumatisation of a generation, the shattering of the security of childhood. colleagues, every sanction must be used by us and our partners around the world. and as they perpetrate such crimes against every generation, russia must cease to be a member of the un human rights council. this is life and death, with access to food, safety, education and psychosocial support all immediate needs for children. the fate of a generation is at stake, and we must help them and we are helping. firstly, we also have to be vigilant for traffickers. in every dire situation, there is someone who seeks to profit. our police must be at the top of their game. the coordination must be excellent. secondly, we must ensure the children’s right to education is not interrupted. these months, where these children are displaced and in other countries, must not be the ones where they just survive but where they thrive. thirdly, warm beds and safe houses are what make children feel secure. many are traumatised already. parents, particularly mothers, need care, need support so that they can get back on their feet. we must also embrace unaccompanied minors. being alone in the world at such a young age, can you imagine it? one of the most terrifying things you can possibly imagine. our actions today can empower those who will build ukraine again. it is our duty to help them now.
madam president, the revision of the trans-european network energy regulation could have a huge impact on the eu’s chances of achieving its climate goals. the revision of the regulation appears to have got to grips with the conflict of interest in the current ten-e process, where gas demand has been consistently overestimated by the european network of transmission system operators for gas. this remarkable conflict of interest means that the gas companies that build the gas infrastructure are the same companies that propose the projects. however, the revision fails to exclude financial support in the form of subsidies for fossil fuel gas infrastructure and political support in the form of planning permissions. europe’s still providing over eur 112 billion a year towards the fossil fuel industry. we need a fossil fuel gas phase—out in europe by 2035 at the latest. and we need an immediate end to fossil fuel gas subsidies. we are in breach of the paris agreement at the moment because we’re supposed to make finances work for the climate. we also need to make sure that public funding is available to support people and companies to move away from fossil gas.
president of the commission. yes, we've made good progress with new zealand and australia new zealand is even a little bit further along than australia is. we'll start negotiating with india. i think that's important too. we've got some distance to cover in mexico. i think, if i may say so, that we must fundamentally rethink the approach to the major trade agreements, whether this is always the last resort. because we see that we often just have a standstill for years. our canadian friends are right to ask us, in view of the situation you have just described, why do you not conclude ceta with us once and for all? tell us what we're doing wrong. it's hard to find an answer to that. because, in fact, right now, we're looking at getting rid of supply chains and getting rid of our dependence on critical raw materials, critical minerals, rare earths, rare gases that we have in russia, and instead going to a geographically similar region, but with a democracy -- namely canada -- and talking to them about, for example, how to mine these critical minerals in an environmentally friendly way under decent working conditions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. so, to cut a long speech short, yes, we are working on moving forward. but we're also finding new ways to get to the bottom of things, maybe faster. i would like to mention one more example. the council of trade and technology, which we have at the moment, is very useful in dealing with the united states, for example, because it enables us to tackle difficult issues in a targeted way in smaller packages and to solve them. you saw it with the steel tariffs, you've seen it now with lng. in the digital part, we have similar points that we have to tackle together. so the bottom line is, yes, we should choose our partners carefully. the question of democracy and reliability should play a very important role. we learned that in the pandemic, and we're learning that in this war. we should be more flexible with the packages, that we really do distance.
i should like to thank you, commission president, for giving us more time than we originally asked for. i think we did very well – it is 12 years since question time last took place in plenary. (applause)a lot of colleagues asked to take the floor. can i ask you to still register your questions for the next question time with the high representative, if those questions can be put to him. that concludes question time to the commission. (the sitting was suspended at 16.24)
good afternoon, everybody. i should like to begin by approving the minutes of yesterday's sitting. that record and the approved texts have already been distributed. i ask if there are any observations. in the absence of such a statement, the minutes shall be approved.
the next item is question time with the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy / vice-president of the commission, josep borrell. the topic is the eu’s security and strategic compass. i hope you can respect the topic chosen for this question time. before i recall the rules, i would just like to welcome josep borrell to our plenary for this question time session.
i would remind you that we are in this session testing some of the recommendations of the reflection group for parliamentary reform, and one of the points is precisely the reintroduction of question time to the commission. this question period with the vice-president will last approximately 60 minutes. it follows the pattern of questions to the commission which we have just used in our dialogue with the president of the commission. questions are therefore not allocated to members in advance and those who wish to ask a question should register their request now using the 'catch the eye' function on their voting machine after, of course, entering their voting card. there will be 1 minute for asking a question, 2 minutes for answering, then 30 seconds for a follow-up question, followed by 2 minutes for the final answer. these instructions have been made available in the hemiciclo. i would remind you that seats are vacant, except for the first two rows which are allocated to the heads of staff and the heads of the political groups. during question time, speeches will be taken from the floor of each chamber and i invite all speakers to respect the allocated speaking time. members may need a few moments to record the requests for questions through their voting machines. so i ask you again to submit your applications now and we will start with the first question immediately. i would therefore like to give the floor to mr vandenkendelaere of the epp. you have the floor.
president, high representative, i am standing before you, thank you for being here at this question time and for speaking on such an important subject as the strategic compass. it has come a long way, and just at the end it was completely overshadowed by the war in ukraine. but now it's finally passed and the real work begins. the first concrete objective of chapter 3 of the compass, the chapter on investment, is already in place. member states should have targets for increased and better coordinated defence spending by the middle of this year. so my question to you is simple. mid-2022 is coming very fast. that deadline is very close. how can we - how can you - ensure that the member states meet that crucial first deadline and that the strategic compass does not start off on a false note, but on the contrary can take off quickly?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. thank you very much for this first question, which opens this new format of parliamentary questions; i am glad that it is in respect of the strategic compass: i think it is a good start, and it would certainly be a serious mistake for all member states to increase their defence spending in a way that is homothetic to the current situation, it would be a great waste if we were to take the current distribution of investments by states to a higher level without changing its structure. the european council has taken a stand on the matter and has asked the commission and the european defence agency to analyse the defence gaps, that is to say the gap between what each state has and what it should have, in order to propose plans to bring these differences closer together and reduce them. of course, the member states are sovereign and will do as they please, but i hope that everyone will agree to follow guidelines which will make it possible to coordinate the increased defence spending that we will have to make at european level so that this will result in a greater operational capacity of our armed forces as a whole. in this respect, the european defence agency will have to play a fundamental role, be better known, be in closer contact with the agents, both with the defence departments of each member state and with the industrial sectors, and, as you have said, we have very little time left to do this, we have very little time left to define the development plans that each state will have to follow if we want the result of this coordination task to be a better use of the resources that the taxpayers will have to contribute.
president, high representative, thank you for your reply. you referred to the guidelines which we hope the member states will follow as uniformly as possible. in mid-may you will put forward proposals on this subject together with the european defence agency. can we have some more details on the proposals you expect to make there?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. of course, they will not be completely new to what we already know. you don't improvise these things. i suggest you look at the full and detailed answer which you can find in the latest publication of the european defence agency, in the latest document, the card 'the coordinated annual defence review', where you can find in full detail what capability analysis we do and what are the indications that, according to this analysis, member states should follow. again, i cannot guarantee that the member states will do so, but that document, card, is the result of their own analyses. we are not putting ourselves in the place of the member states. we try to make the answers that everyone gives us consistent with each other. and there we shall be able to see how we can, for example, cover our shortcomings in the field of drones; we can cover our shortcomings in the field of aerial refuelling, since we still lack sufficient capacity; in armaments, which today are proving as extraordinarily effective as individual anti-tank and anti-aircraft weapons. i believe that we have a wide range of development possibilities and what we will certainly do is to make available to those who have to put them into practice the latest analyses we have made, which, as i say, are available to you through this document, which i cannot summarize at this time, but where you can find a complete answer to your question.
honourable high representative, our security does not stop at our borders. that’s why we need to be proactive throughout our neighbourhood. i welcome that the document contains a goal to develop a tailored partnership with western balkan countries – moreover, to provide well-intentioned messages to foster stability and address political reality and constitutional obligations, particularly regarding croats in bosnia and herzegovina. nothing can be the same after 24 february. we need to push for a sustainable way to make europe self-sufficient with food, energy and defence. those needs should be a crucial part of our security agenda. that’s what our citizens are asking us to push for. in other words, we must walk the talk. that is also why i call for the strengthening of intelligence cooperation among our member states in order to prevent situations such as the falling of a soviet-era drone in zagreb, which went through the airspace of the european union and nato member countries. that is absolutely unacceptable. therefore, mr high representative, i would ask you the following: the strategic compass is based on the first ever eu threat analysis. that is the gathering of threat analyses from the civil and military intelligence services from the 27 member states. regular reviews on this threat analysis are foreseen. when will the next one take place, as our immediate security environment is unfortunately deteriorating rapidly? has this exercise permitted to launch discussions on deeper eu intelligence cooperation?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the first question, mr president, when we talk about defence capabilities is: to defend ourselves against what or against whom? what threats are we facing? so the first thing the strategic compass did was to do a challenge and threat analysis. and who better to do it than the intelligence services of all the member states, in an unusual exercise that led them all to share their vision of the different threats that weigh on each of them: a panoply, no doubt, varied. because the perception of threats is not the same in portugal as in lithuania, nor in ireland as in greece. and from this exercise has emerged that challenge and threat analysis, which is the basis of the strategic compass. as the world is changing, and increasingly rapidly, this analysis must be brought up to date. we said every two years. at the rate of events, i think that this time frame is too long and certainly what is happening on the eastern border, in ukraine, and in general on the entire eastern front of europe, advises us to do this next year. because the geostrategic landscape has changed. what has happened in ukraine is a tectonic shift in our security environment and that has forced us, first, to adapt the text of the compass before it was adopted. but now that it is, the next and most immediate task will be to repeat that analysis to see more clearly the significance of the threat that putin's russia currently poses to the security of europe.
thank you, mr high representative, for your answer. now, i would like to focus more directly on ukraine. the european peace facility is the most prominent instrument of our support to the ukrainian armed forces. how do you envisage additional and continuous delivery on adequate military equipment to ukraine? does this open the way for equipping other third partner countries’ armed forces in the case of need?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. thank you, mr president, for a question that is extremely relevant to the times in which we live. the european union, through the european peace support fund, which is, as you know, an intergovernmental fund, is financing the arms supply that the member states make to ukraine. we have no stock of weapons and certainly no time to manufacture them either, because the war is on. it is therefore the member states which draw from their military capabilities the elements which ukraine needs. we have therefore set up a coordination centre in the european external action service, in the general secretariat for defence affairs, where we compare the requests made by ukraine with the capabilities that the member states can provide. not everyone has the same. not everyone can supply the same amount, and until we intervened with the european peace fund funds, there was a certain disorganization, because there were, say, too many offers for some capacities and not enough for others. now, thanks to this coordination, we can meet the demands and needs of the ukrainian armed forces, and that is what we are going to do with 1 000 million euros, which must be added to what the member states had done before the contribution from the european institutions came into force. what kind of weaponry? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. priority is given to light defensive weapons, those that have demonstrated, like the stingers, extraordinary effectiveness in fighting against tanks in what we can call a new way of doing warfare that ukraine has invented: light infantry units deployed around the communication routes, doing a bit of the old guerrilla warfare, but with highly sophisticated weaponry, which has been very effective in stopping the armored columns of the russian army.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. this is not a question directly related to the scope of the strategic compass. the strategic compass is a plan of action. it's not a diagnostic paper. it is an action plan to strengthen security and defence policies. as regards the financing capacity, within the european institutions we have the european defence fund, which is managed by my colleague and friend, commissioner thierry breton. we have other funds, such as aid for military mobility. but basically, what is at stake is to make the resources available to the commission through the european defence fund (not a negligible amount: 13 billion euros, plus another 6 billion for military mobility) serve as a seed. and in order for them to be a seed that grows in fertile soil, we have to use the work of the cep and, to a large extent, we are doing so, because a very important part of the allocation of funds from the european defence fund is going to finance projects of the cep, which in turn are the result of joint action by the member states. because you know that the eec projects require the participation of a minimum number of states and they are the ones who have to designate their priority needs. i think it would be a mistake for our dynamic to equip our armed forces with military capabilities to be something that's industry-driven. it must be guided by the needs that those responsible for defence detect. they're the plaintiffs. we should not be in a supply market, of what industry thinks the armies need, but of what the armies think they need and that industry should supply them. you know that everywhere and at all times there has been a difficult balance in defence between the plaintiff and the bidder, and that military-industrial complexes have sometimes been created which have ended up being the real leaders of defence policy. and that is something that we in europe have to avoid. that is why it must be the political responsibility of those responsible for defence to guide the use of our funds to fuel development work that enables us to have what we need, not what industry is able to supply.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. your honours, of course i do. madam member, you simply said that public funds must act as seed. they must act as indicators where there are needs and private or public industry, but certainly also private industry, must focus their attention. it's about sending signals. it's about sending incitement. and to meet those signals or to respond to that incentive, the private sector will have to put its best foot forward and make competitive bids. but the market for defense capabilities is not like the market for food. you don't go through the shelves of a supermarket picking out the material you need. it takes a long time to build a fighter plane and it requires huge financial capital and huge amounts of intelligence and industrial capacity. so it will never be a perfect market of the kind described by economic theory. we must send signals so that private investors know what they can produce, so that their customers - and customers, in the field of defence, there is practically only one in each state - can find satisfaction for their demand. of course, financial institutions, such as our investment bank, will also have a role to play. but invest for what? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i will tell you more, one of the problems we have in europe is that our joint demand, that is to say, those public tenders which are directed to the defence sector, are becoming less and less joint. we should have a greater proportion of lawsuits targeting the defence market, made by several countries at once. however, the share of defence spending is becoming smaller, which is arbitraged in such a way that several member states can participate at once. and certainly, to combat this, we have the leverage of the european investment banks.
vice—president, i very much appreciate that you took the decision to visit kyiv together with president von der leyen and i really hope that you will have more to announce than just grave concern or moral support to ukrainian nation, which is standing up for our values today, and every day, in this very awful war. i have followed the process of the strategic compass, and i appreciate that the changes made after 24 february are aiming the needle of the compass in the right direction, which means it aims towards the east, where the existential threat to our values and our way of life is coming from. now, my question is more about mff. i understand that you said that nations should not invest more because it is waste of time. in my opinion, every nation in europe needs to increase its defence spending and robustly and work together because there are so many gaps in the european defence. my question is, is it possible to reallocate resources in the framework of mff to fill some of these gaps? for example, how can we make military mobility work. thank you.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. in the financial framework we have now, frankly, i find it difficult to reallocate resources to increase, for example, the allocations for military mobility. that item was greatly reduced by the member states when the financial perspectives were discussed, and with the amount of demand there is today for european funds to deal with the increase in the price of energy, food, the problems we are facing with the pandemic, i very much doubt that with the current appropriations voted by parliament we can increase the military mobility you have mentioned; of course the member states could make extraordinary contributions, but i do not see that very feasible either. it was a decision taken at a time when there were no serious threats to our security - very different from now - but with what we have, we must try to spend it well, and i have not said that i do not believe that military spending should be increased, quite the contrary: i think i have said on several occasions that europe is below its level in terms of its commitment to defence. we are at this moment at 1.5% of gdp, all the states together represent 1.5% of gdp. it's gone up a lot since 2014, but we're at the same level we were in 2008: our defense spending is the same today as it was in 2008. what i have said is that this increase in expenditure must be done in a coordinated way so that the result is more consistent than what we have now.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i cannot say that there has not been a dialogue, at least, intense, with nato about what a strategic compass was and wanted to be. whenever europeans talk about defence capabilities at european level, voices are raised asking 'what about nato?' and i have always had to say that there is no alternative to nato for the territorial defence of europe, not even from a financial point of view; that nato remains the fundamental instrument for ensuring the defence of our space, of european territory, against the threats of alleged aggressors. unfortunately, we have now seen that they were not presumptions, but real ones. but i think we have achieved a rapprochement, dispelling fears and showing that nato will not intervene in solving all our security problems and that there will be some for which we have to have our own capabilities that can be mobilised outside nato. if she doesn't intervene, it'll have to be us. and to do that effectively and cost-effectively, but also quickly and with enough force, we need to develop capabilities that we don't have today and make our militaries interoperable. that, i think, in the end, and despite reticence and suspicion, must have been clear. i want to take this opportunity to stress that again. it is not a question of creating a european nato or of weakening nato. if we are stronger, nato will also be stronger. greater european defence capability must be to the benefit of greater nato capability. with regard to the strategic concept, with the president's permission, i reserve my answer for the second part of my speech.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the second part of your question relates to the nato strategic concept. a document on which we have not yet been able to agree and which must necessarily be agreed before or during the madrid summit. we have not been able to do so before, not because of a lack of will on the part of nato or the european union, but as always, 'the devil is in the details' and when it came to updating the last joint statement we made with nato, which dates back to the warsaw period, we certainly found details to which we could adjust our response. the nato strategic concept will be presented in madrid and that is where your question should be answered. should the united states become more involved in europe's territorial defence? or, as they probably prefer, will they concentrate on the indo-pacific scenario, which they had already left before they had to turn their attention back to europe as a result of the invasion of ukraine? but we certainly cannot expect the deployment of us military forces in europe to make up for our shortcomings. and i think the united states is quite right to ask the europeans to share fairly the burden of our collective security. and so we are now talking about strengthening our military capabilities, which will inevitably come about by devoting greater resources to our defense capability. because europeans, since the end of the second world war, have been accustomed to living under the protective umbrella of the united states - which was the whole logic of the world during the cold war - but now, in a completely different scenario, despite the invasion of ukraine, we are asked for a greater responsibility.
dear high representative, while writing this compass, the world has changed around us. the russian attack on ukraine is right now killing civilians, hurting children with sexual violence and fuelling an extreme humanitarian crisis. new measures also beyond the current sanctions are urgently needed. what is now the action plan that you and the eu are prepared to do to bring justice to the victims in ukraine and stop dictators such as putin, not only in ukraine, but also in the future? and how do we prevent possible future attacks also against our member states because not all of them are currently nato members? during the implementation of this compass, what measures do you intend to take in order to clarify possible actions within the eu - for example, based on article 42(7)?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i hope that the russian invasion of ukraine will be a moment of awakening for the conscience of european citizens and that when we talk about strengthening our defensive capabilities, the old reflex of saying that military spending is something that should be reduced to zero if possible will not be awakened. we all prefer butter to cannon, as they used to say in the first world war. the problem is that today we face threats, and those threats have to make us feel the need to have the capacity to deal with them. this is what the strategic compass is all about. you ask me how i'm going to do it how are we going to do it, because i'm not going to do it alone. well, by putting into practice what that document proposes. we must start by having a military planning and conduct capacity here in brussels, to control military operations, and by making real investment in defence which will enable us to overcome this 1.5% limit. but this effort which the strategic compass wants to put into practice cannot be done in such a way that each member state increases its capacities in proportion to what it already has and that all do so by reproducing its present structure at a higher level. because then we would only be making the duplications we already have bigger and the deficiencies we already have bigger. this effort must be coordinated to avoid duplication and to eliminate shortcomings. that is what makes this programming exercise particularly difficult, because you have to tell some member states not to invest more in some of their capacities and to invest in others. and that can only be done in a voluntary way. we do not have the coercive capacity to say what everyone has to do, but we should have the programmatic capacity to point out how everyone should behave in order to achieve a global optimum, which is not the sum of local optimums. therein lies the difficulty of the exercise.
thank you so much, mr high representative. and also, i would like to thank europe for giving arms to ukraine on this situation and i hope we can continue that and even take that further because they need our support very much at the moment. however, i would like to also ask how we would deal about the arms export in future to other countries because currently the eu doesn’t have a common position that we would follow in terms of how arms are sold to dictators, terrorists and so on. how do we make sure that we do not now sell arms to rulers such as putin who might use them against us or europe in the future? thank you so much.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. we now realize the amount of military elements we have supplied to russia for many years. "i wish we hadn't", you can tell me. the policy on arms exports remains strictly a national policy. you know very well that it is the member states who decide, in accordance with their national legislation and under the control of their national authorities, what they export and to whom. we have tried to establish some sort of homogenising mechanism so that we could have a certain droit de regard from the european union, a certain capacity for analysis, i will not say the capacity to prohibit or authorise - because this is still national - but to see how each member state uses this capacity of its own. and i must tell you that there is no great enthusiasm for us to act, not as arbiters, but not even as vigilantes. the member states are very zealous about their own capacity and understand that they are using it properly. but it would be good in the future if we had some capacity, not to say control - because that far exceeds our ambition - but to know how each member state uses its national powers: who sells weapons to, what weapons it sells and, if possible, at what price.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. yes, madam member, rapid deployment capacity or rapid deployment of capacity is one of the flagship projects of the strategic compass. i would point out that this is perhaps not the most important aspect of the compass, but it has a great deal of appeal in the ability to deploy 5,000 troops on the ground ready to take part in combat missions, that is, in a hostile environment, equipped with the necessary weapons to cope with different types of missions. it is certainly a qualitative leap, because until now we had the eu combat groups - and we still have them - but they were not at all adapted to the possible mission they would have to carry out. and military doctrine says that it's the mission that determines strength and that different types of missions need different types of strength or capabilities. so from now on we will ask the member states to tell us what capability modules or what types of operational capabilities they put at our disposal so that, when the time comes, we can build a set of modules adapted to the mission for which the force is being mobilised. this has to be done over the next two years, so that it is fully operational by 2025. by 2025 we have to have the capability modules that the member states put at our disposal to be articulated and combined with each other and to build the force necessary to deal with a mission that can be of very different natures. and the first real exercise with those modules - with the first modules - should be done next year.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. yes, certainly the deployment in mali and earlier in the central african republic of wagner group companies will alter our presence on the ground. it has already done so in the central african republic, where we have suspended military training missions, and it will do so in mali, where we are in dialogue with the authorities of that country to find out what guarantees we could have to continue to exercise these training functions to ensure that those soldiers would not later be used as auxiliary forces for the wagner group companies: we are not prepared to train soldiers who are then put at the disposal of russian mercenaries. if we do not have sufficient guarantees, we will have to modulate our activity in that country - which we would not like to abandon, because we can always continue to carry out advisory and monitoring functions on respect for human rights in military operations, which i fear will be lacking - at non-operational levels. and i say that i fear that you will fail, because you are as well aware as i am of the reports coming from mali about the abuses committed or attributed to the malian armed forces and their russian accomplices; attributed, i cannot guarantee that this has been the case, but i can point out the suspicions that exist at this moment about the behaviour that has caused hundreds of deaths under the cover of the fight against terrorism, a fight that cannot be forgotten under the laws of war and that must be extremely careful not to cause civilian casualties, which would only fuel a spiral of social discontent and generate the seeds of new terrorist movements.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the eu-nato partnership is a partnership between two political institutions of very different natures. nato is a military alliance between sovereign states that mutually defend themselves with a commitment to unlimited solidarity. if one is attacked, the others will defend him as if they were defending themselves. that's what they have capability schematics for. each member state must, in accordance with its obligations arising from membership of the alliance, make available to it military capabilities which it must finance. there is a military program assigned to each nato member state that it has to comply with. the european union is not a military alliance and its member states remain the owners of their defence policies. the commission - of which i am vice-president - has no competence in defence matters. it has competence in defence industrial policy, because defence is an industry and as such is part of the productive fabric of a country, and it has competence in the civilian aspects of defence, such as defence against hybrid attacks, cyber security... but defence in the deepest sense of the word, that is to say, the mobilization of military capabilities in an armed confrontation, is the exclusive competence of the member states. so this dialogue between the european union and nato is a dialogue between two different strangers, a military alliance with a basically civilian union. we do not tell the member states what military capabilities they must have. there is an attempt to do this through the strategic compass when we talk about the modules to build the rapid intervention force. but not anymore. that ambivalent relationship is what the joint declaration between nato and the european union, which is being negotiated and, as i said in my answer to another previous question, we have not yet reached agreement on, is trying to achieve.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. in the context of its relationship with nato, we do not intend to do so. the european union is not going to give directives to the member states of the european union on how they are to manage their relationship with nato. i'm not at all. we will talk to nato as an organisation 'from organisation to organisation' to make cooperation and coordination possible in those areas where the european union has competence and can help develop or complement nato's. cybersecurity is a prime example. we have an eu agency for cybersecurity. in the european external action service, we have teams that respond quickly to cyber threats. the response to hybrid threats where the civilian and the military are combined is another example where the european union can cooperate with nato, but not through the member states, but institution to institution. and that is why it is important that we have just made this joint statement, which will have to answer your question, madam president. but it is not for us to tell our member states how they are to carry out their commitments to nato. they are already adults, they know what they have to do and they can be sure that nato will remember this. and if they don't live up to their capabilities, they're going to be asked to do so. they don't need us to do it. i understand that this institutional framework is sometimes difficult to understand, but let me make it clear: we are the european union, a civil union, whose objective is peace and which has defence components in aspects that do not involve actions that compromise the lives of our soldiers. these are non-executive assignments. the first executive mission we are going to have is this rapid reaction force, which will be designed to deal with situations in hostile environments that may involve combat missions, something which, moreover, is perfectly provided for in the union treaties.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i think your honor has a certain mental confusion. nobody here has thrown anything in the trash. there was a document, made in 2017, which was a strategic reflection on europe as a global actor, conceived in the circumstances of the moment. the strategic compass is not a document of this kind, it is an action plan for developing the common security and defence policy of the european union with concrete dates, deadlines and results. let me say that the european union is a whole made up of different institutions, and the commission is one of them, but it is not the only one. let me remind you that there is another called the council, which i am representing here. and, in case you have not heard, the strategic compass was adopted by the council, not the commission. we have had the support and cooperation of my colleagues in the commission, and i thank them for that, because thanks to them the document is more complete and incorporates richer points of view, but it is a council document, mr president. it has been approved by the ministers of defence and foreign affairs and endorsed by the european council. or do you not yet know that this european union has two pillars: the intergovernmental and the community pillar? and that i'm here representing the intergovernmental pillar? nobody threw anything in the trash. it was done by those who had to do it: all the member states, which are, according to the treaty, competent in matters of defence.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. no, your honor, the compass is not a moral document. he doesn't have that will. it's a military technical document. it is an action plan to strengthen and develop capacities in the areas of security and defence. it is not a moral document and certainly does not intend to deploy troops in ukraine to help ukraine deal with russian aggression. i think you will agree that the european union has never intended to intervene militarily in this war. we are helping ukraine and we are doing so with the resources of the member states and with the resources of the union budget, or rather of an intergovernmental fund attached to the union budget, but which, for example, you in this parliament do not approve. but without becoming a belligerent element. the compass was adopted after the russian attack on ukraine and it was not considered necessary to reconstruct its architecture or its proposals, because that possibility, that threat, was already considered among those threats to which the compass had to come to give a response. so we're not going to rewrite the text. we understand that it is sufficiently adapted to the present circumstances, but, as i said before, we are going to repeat the analysis of threats, threats and challenges earlier than planned, because russia's attitude certainly forces us to pay much more attention to the threats that we already knew could come from that country and that have now, unfortunately, materialized.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. thank you, mrs. loiseau, thank you very much. let me also thank you for the help you have given us during the long journey of the compass. you know very well, because you are very much involved in it, that it cannot be a document like any other. it is nevertheless a document. the compass contains an ambitious action plan to strengthen security and defence policy by 2030, eight years from now. it's a plan, but plans have to be implemented, otherwise it's just a document to keep on a shelf. that's why he's proposing a timetable. most of the actions we want to put into practice are envisaged in the next two or three years, so you will be able to assess before the end of your mandate what will have become of the compass. you cite and you do well to do so the strengthening of military planning and conduct capacity. some say it's a staff that hides its name, that we dare not name. yes, if you want. the mpcc will be a body capable of planning and conducting all military missions. one non-executive mandate plus two small executive mandates or one medium-sized executive mandate mission: that's how we scale it. it will have to conduct real exercises, starting next year. so i'm going to give you a meeting. if in a year's time we have not had a joint exercise of the european armies, you can say to me: 'you have not put your plans into practice'. these are the tasks of a real european operational staff. but these tasks will require commitments from the member states in terms of staff made available, investments, security systems in our communications, for example. and in the short term, national operational staff will have to pre-identify what capabilities they are making available to the mpcc. compared to the rapid deployment force - i see that my time is already past - the deadlines are even more concrete. i hope that in the coming months we will have operational scenarios, and the first real exercise will take place within a year. i'll save the rest of my answer for the second part of my time.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. you are right, madam deputy, i was surprised too and i reported it. i pointed out that the european council's request to the commission was simply a copy and paste of the page of the lisbon treaty which defines the tasks of the european defence agency. it was clearly a copy-paste. the writer did not have much imagination: he went to the treaty and took the exact same phrases and stuck them in the article which stated what the commission should do. i pointed out that this has already been done, with varying degrees of success, and that is why the council said that the commission, in coordination with the european defence agency, should put into practice a task for which, no doubt, technical expertise is rather the domain of the european defence agency. but we will cooperate with loyalty, we will combine our capacities, those of myself as president of the european defence agency and those of my colleague thierry breton as head of the european defence fund. but what does it mean? this means that the european defence agency is not well known. and it is my fault, or part of my fault, that the institution i preside over has not been able to break the communication barrier to let the heads of state and government know that it exists and what its role is. that means there is a communication problem, which i will try to solve, because the role of the european defence agency deserves at least to be known; because there are many people, many officers from all the european armies working here in brussels to make sure that we know what these so-called 'defence gaps' are, which we must first define. what is a "defense gap"? a gap is a difference. between what and what? between what we have and what we should have. we know what we have, we have to go and measure it. what we should have is harder to say. who says? nato, us, each state? there are at least three different "gaps". so we have to combine these "gaps" to find the right one, the one that measures what our combined operational capabilities should be.
high representative, i will ask you a simple question that i’ve been asking many times here. i congratulate you on strategic compass and the big achievement that has been done. but what are we going to do with the key point that we put on the western balkans and situation in bosnia and herzegovina, the electoral law? how are you going to resolve this issue? because the elections are coming and the leaders have not been brought to brussels to discuss this issue. i think it’s a peace and security issue and operation althea in bosnia and herzegovina is increasing. people are getting nervous, they are being scared, rumours are running around and we are behaving like business as usual. can i just ask you, what are you going to do about that as a conflict prevention issue?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – a difficult question. you know, we discussed the prolonged political crisis in bosnia and herzegovina at the last european council, and as you know, in the european council conclusions, it is said that the european union reiterates its commitment to the european perspective of bosnia and herzegovina and the western balkans and that the leaders of bosnia and herzegovina need to demonstrate a strong commitment to finalise swiftly the constitutional electoral reform vital for the stability and functionality of the country, and to support reforms set out to obtain candidate status. and that we as the european union stand ready to continue its high level engagement in this regard. this high level engagement is my team and me, together with the us team that we have been trying to put into practice – with not a lot of success. we have been trying to facilitate an intensive talk between political leaders of bosnia and herzegovina on a comprehensive package of constitutional and electoral reform at the senior official level in the past month. i went to sarajevo also last month. i strongly encouraged the political leaders to make the final steps towards finding an agreement. important progress was made on all elements of the reform, but the parties could not reach a consensus on which they would draft a legal amendment to the parliament discussion for a final vote. so the technical talks are exhausted. but we encourage the leaders to continue working in the bosnia and herzegovina parliament, notably on the amendments to the electoral law, which would allow to improve the framework to hold elections in october. because general elections have to be held this year, in line with the constitutional and legislative framework in place, to allow the citizens to decide their fundamental right to vote. and there are some issues related with the constitutional reform that we will have to keep for my second time.
the follow-up question regards operation althea. in compass, croatia insisted on putting three constituent people as a balance for bosnia and herzegovina’s future, on the basis of the dayton agreement. you know very well that althea has to be approved by the end of the year by the security council. what are you going to do in order to maintain this necessary balance in bosnia and herzegovina and the legitimate representation and also, to relax all the sides, to have the extension of operation althea going through the un security council?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – before going into operation althea, allow me to finish your first question because when it comes to the constitutional and electoral reform we need to remove discrimination in line with the judgments of the european court of human rights, improve the integrity of elections, and strengthen the functionality of institutions. our work has been, and will remain, to protect the spirit of dayton: one state, two entities and three constituent peoples, equally preserving the rights of all citizens of bosnia and herzegovina, and some of them could not belong to any of these three constituent peoples. and this is what the leaders have to continue working on. and i hope that we have a final agreement. operation althea. on the dire situation of bosnia and herzegovina, i decided to call the reserve and now there are 500 more effective in althea military capacities. i went to sarajevo to receive them, to welcome these 500 soldiers from different nationalities, from chile to turkey and several member states, certainly, that are there in order to ensure peace and stability and to prevent what may happen – may, let’s hope not – if there is not an agreement that could allow us to go ahead and to call for elections and to hold elections in a peaceful and positive manner. but althea is an operation that has to be granted and authorised by the united nations. and i hope that the security council will prolong the mandate to operation althea, but it is not in my hands. you know, how does it work. but i want to believe, i want to expect from the responsibility of all political actors that the security council will prolong the mandate of operation althea. because i cannot imagine the peace and stability in bosnia and herzegovina without the presence of our mission there.
dear high representative, first of all let me congratulate you and the whole eeas for having completed this unprecedented exercise that will give more coherence, ambition and renewed impetus to our approach to global politics. moving decisively towards the europeanisation of security and defence is something we cannot delay further, and the russian criminal invasion of ukraine represents yet another wake—up call. eventually we have a guiding light, well—intentioned, in the strategic compass. my question for you is the following: the russian criminal invasion forced us to react swiftly and in an unprecedented manner, and we could do it only thanks to the european peace facility. this instrument has proven to be an added value to our toolbox, allowing us to transfer military equipment to ukrainian armed forces. however, the resources allocated for 2022 are already over, while the challenges we are facing are definitely not. therefore, i would like to ask you whether there is an intention to frontload the resources in order to keep on supporting ukraine, while also providing sufficient funding to several other partners, especially the african union and its neighbours, to set up an effective continental security apparatus.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. yes, i understand that, in view of the extraordinary contribution of 1 000 million euros to finance defensive armaments for ukraine, there may be some fear about the resources that are still left to meet other needs, because this 1 000 million euros is not the first we have spent, we have allocated before them other amounts not so important, but other amounts nevertheless, different from our most important partners: we have allocated funds to moldova, we have allocated funds to various african countries (we had allocated funds to mali, which are now suspended, frozen waiting to see how the situation goes); we had allocated before also to ukraine, before this 1 000 million, we had previously allocated another 35 million, but i want to reassure your honourable friend: we have enough funds left for what remains of this seven-year period, and ukraine will remain a priority. if the war continues and we have to continue to finance and supply arms - because it is not just a question of financial capital: no one wages war with bank notes, war is not waged with money, it is waged with real materials which certainly have to be financed - we will have to be prepared to continue to support ukraine, but for the moment we still have sufficient funds, both in the part allocated to ukraine and in the rest of the european peace fund, to meet other needs which i hope are not as urgent, as pressing and as serious as those we are having to face in ukraine.
thank you very much. it’s certainly true that the most urgent issue to be addressed is the criminal invasion of ukraine. and i am convinced that we can be a decisive actor in the conflict with several means in our variegated toolbox. however, we must not forget also the threats that we are facing, that they are variegated and they come from all strategic directions. therefore, how will we ensure that sufficient attention and funding will be given also to the european southern neighbourhood? will we increase our capabilities for operating theatres that are different from those present in the east and will the renewed impetus for military mobility keep this need into account?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. yes, indeed, we are at the beginning of a budgetary period and we have to save funds for future needs. but i want to stress that, for the moment, i think we can do it. we still have enough resources. i'm not gonna tell you how many. but rest assured that at the moment, both to meet the increased needs of the ukrainian side and to keep reserves for other military problems, we have sufficient resources.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. in fact, we have allocated 6 billion euros in the budget to strengthen military mobility. military mobility means having transport infrastructure that can channel the movement of military assets. and certainly we have a lot of infrastructure, but not all of it can withstand the passage of a leopard tank, for example, which weighs its own. i mean, there are bridges in our transportation infrastructure in secondary networks that are not designed to facilitate the mobility of military assets, and we may find ourselves in situations where we have to use them for that, because we probably have to shift military capabilities from west to east. the large communication hubs certainly do, but sometimes military capabilities have to be brought to regions where communications are scarce and are certainly not designed to facilitate the transit of heavy media. that is what was proposed, and it was agreed that an amount of 6 000 million would be allocated, which was initially 10 000 but which, in the budgetary adjustments, the member states reduced to 6 000 in their proposal. but 6 billion is enough for their own needs. it is obvious that they will not be enough to rebuild the whole secondary network of european roads, but they will be enough to solve some critical points where the disproportion between the capacity of traffic and the vehicles that have to pass is very great. we are channelling the requests that the member states make to us. the military mobility program has a board where the ministries of defense and public works and transport of all states are represented, and they are the ones who decide which projects to allocate resources to. we still have resources, but we'll probably run out of them soon.
we have already exceeded the time allotted for this debate. we'll have to end our debate here. i would like to thank the vice-president of the european commission and high representative josep borrell for his cooperation and valuable presence. this question period is over. we move on to the next item on our agenda.
the s&d and ecr groups have notified the president of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees. those decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the day of this announcement.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice—president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in afghanistan, in particular the situation of women’s rights (2022/2571(rsp)). i remind you that free seating is applied, with the exception of the first two rows that are allocated to the political group leaders. you will be able to request catch—the—eye and blue cards via your voting machine after having inserted your voting card. i would also like to remind you that interventions in the chamber will continue to be made from the central rostrum except for catch—the—eye, blue cards and points of order.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, over the last five weeks, our attention has been largely focused on russia’s war against ukraine but, at the same time, the situation in afghanistan remains critical. the european union and its member states have provided a massive scale of humanitarian assistance to avoid famine. but saving lives, while necessary, is not sufficient. systematic violations of human rights are reported across the country and all afghans are suffering. however, i would like to dedicate my short speech today to the women and girls of afghanistan. over the past two weeks, we have witnessed heartbreaking images of girls full of hope turning up for school. they went to school and they were called to go back home, because they were not allowed to be there. they were not allowed to attend the schools and they had to turn away at the school gates, because the taliban reversed their promise to the afghan people of opening secondary schools for all. denying education to millions of girls goes against the commitment that afghanistan, as a state, has signed. it is against the commitments that the taliban themselves have made to the afghan people and to us, to the international community. several muslim countries and organisations have also condemned these actions, pointing out that within an islamic system, women are an integral part of the workforce, in government and in higher education. the taliban reversed these decisions and decided to deny education to girls. not for us, not for the sake of the international community, but for the sake of the future of the people of afghanistan, for themselves, for their people, we are delivering on our commitment to the people of afghanistan, and in particular to afghan women: 75% of the european union’s eur 250 million package for health, education and livelihoods now puts special attention on women and girls and their rights. we are supporting, for example, 23 000 small-scale entrepreneurs, many of whom are women. you know, we have systematically engaged with the taliban for the full inclusion of women in all humanitarian operations. in 2021, we deployed eur 222 million just for humanitarian intervention with a strong prioritisation of female-headed households. over 80% of our health and nutrition beneficiaries are woman and children. we also support trainings for young women to become primary and secondary school teachers. but for what, if in the end they are forbidden from putting their capacities into practice for the good of their people? afghan women must be given the opportunity to speak out and to represent themselves as equal partners in shaping the new afghan reality. this is why i facilitated, on 10 march, the establishment of the afghan women leaders forum, to provide women a forum for voicing their concerns on the international stage. i know that the only way to support the people of afghanistan is to continue raising this issue with the taliban, who are the ones who have the power and the administrative capacity in afghanistan. we make our voice heard by talking with the taliban de facto government, like it or not. we take note of their commitments and we assess them by their deeds. walking away or leaving the field to others is not an option. it is by being present also in kabul and by engaging on the basis of the european union’s benchmark that we can best defend europe’s interests and the values we share with the afghan people, and in particular with the afghan women, in this dire situation. i think this exchange, this debate, can help bring the attention of the world to this forgotten drama, to this forgotten tragedy; the drama and the tragedy of millions of girls whose future is being jeopardised by this cruel decision of not allowing them to be taught, to learn, to prepare for their future lives. i hope the voice of the european parliament will be heard on this.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear high representative, on 24 february, the day the russian war against ukraine started, we were returning from an afet mission to uzbekistan and tajikistan. the aim of the mission was to learn about security consequences of the chaotic departure of the international community from afghanistan. we were explained about the imminent danger of islamic state spreading further and the humanitarian catastrophe that will happen in the country. such events will create new migration waves and will increase the security challenge on our borders. we cannot allow this to happen and have to insist on the fulfilment of the region’s counter-terrorism commitments. in the meantime, the eu has to rethink its security and defence mechanism. in addition, women are suffering under the taliban rule. nowhere have women and girls’ rights been challenged as they have been in afghanistan. the ministry of women’s affairs has been dismantled. participation of women in leadership roles is restricted. women leaders, officials and activists are persecuted. female activists’ activities in public life have ceased to exist. i strongly condemn the recent decision by the taliban to bar secondary education for girls. women and girls are crucial contributors to a resilient and prosperous society, to a strong economy. without the right to education, women are pushed into poverty and submission. i welcome the eu support to the afghan women leaders forum and its aim to facilitate an inclusive dialogue for afghan women from various sectors. but finally, we cannot tolerate or cooperate with societies until they stop denying equal opportunities for women to thrive.
the s&d group. madam president, 44 years of conflict have made afghanistan one of the worst humanitarian disasters in the world. but the taliban's seizure of power on august 15, 2021, marked a return to the situation that characterized the country 20 years ago, reversing the few advances in human rights and especially women's rights. they have been systematically denied access to education. even access to healthcare is only open to women if they are accompanied by a guardian. the taliban have instituted a system that afghan women activists have called a gender apartheid regime. this debate is now all the more timely and necessary as, on the morning of 23 march, the taliban informed afghan female students over the age of 12 that their doors would remain closed. we have heard and spoken in this parliament to many extraordinary women such as shaharzad akbar and sima samar, both chairmen of the afghan independent human rights commission, and zarifa ghafari, mayor of maidan shar, and others. they expressed strong concern on several issues, such as fear of what they perceive as a dangerous normalisation of the relationship with the taliban, and the falseness of the taliban who have shown themselves open to dialogue and, at the same time, have shown their brutal ability to not respond to the democratic civic space. they told us about the destruction of the social fabric and the lack of accountability of this brutal regime. we reaffirm that the seizure of power by force and arms does not give the taliban legitimacy. whereas the european union's intervention in afghanistan will ensure that women are involved in the planning, monitoring and management of aid programmes; that we will ensure access to quality education; that we will show no tolerance for corruption or discrimination; we will ensure that civil society and the media are protected. we will commit to granting refugee status to afghan women. we will commit ourselves to finding appropriate approaches to help and support women who are in afghanistan because they have not been able or have not wanted to leave the country.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, while we’re sitting here women and girls in afghanistan are being erased from all parts of society. women and girls are effectively no longer able to receive an education, participate in public life, or no longer have full access to their bodies, their voice and their future. it is difficult to comprehend. seemingly overnight, the taliban has undone over 20 years of progress in the sphere of human rights and female empowerment. and today, women are once again second class citizens in afghanistan. i stand in solidarity with the afghan women who, in the face of state violence and arrest, protest and stand up to the de facto taliban authorities and continue to actively demand the freedom, democracy and equal representation that they rightly deserve. the taliban regime, which has forcibly taken control of afghanistan, must adhere to the five benchmarks set out by the council in order for future new engagement. and the west must present a united front and continue to push the de facto government into respecting the rule of law, human rights and, in particular, women’s rights. otherwise, we cannot trust them to act responsibly with the human aid that we provide. we have to continue to express our support for afghan women and girls. we have to give them the hope and we have to fight for their future. this is why, together with my colleagues, we put forward a proposal for the 2023 eu budget to provide funding to the afghan online university. we believe it is important that afghans in afghanistan and abroad in refugee camps continue with their education despite poverty and oppression.
on behalf of the the left group. – madam president, the war in afghanistan never stopped. it just changed its nature. economic sanctions are a weapon of war. they are not visible like aerial bombardment is, but they have the same murderous consequences. what is more, they kill women and children, the sick and the elderly, first and foremost. anyone who has ever voted to implement economic sanctions, that have blanket effects on a population, has the blood of the innocent and the vulnerable on their hands. this is not controversial. un agencies and multiple un special rapporteurs on human rights have been shouting from the hilltops for years now about the hundreds of thousands of avoidable deaths that are a direct result of western unilateral sanctions. venezuela, iran, syria, cuba, zimbabwe, yemen, and afghanistan. in afghanistan, us sanctions currently imposed on the country, and the theft of the us of more than usd 7 billion of the country’s assets, are on track to take the lives of more civilians in the coming year than the illegal nato war took in 20 years. over 25 million people, 55% of the afghan population, are facing high levels of acute food insecurity. 1 million children may starve. this is the choice made by the us government, and we talk about eu values while we are blind to all the innocent people that we are sanctioning to death, and we do nothing to stop biden killing millions of afghan civilians. it is criminal.
madam president, thank you vice president. thank you, high representative. eight months ago, as afghanistan quickly fell to the taliban and as european foreign ministers reacted to the situation, i implored them to consider the situation of women and girls. i knew, as we all did, that women and girls were at particular risk from the taliban, forced back into their homes, forced to dress more conservatively, denied education, crucially, denied all these basic human rights. this was, of course, all the crueller because we had promised this generation of afghan women, and indeed they had expected it. they expected to have a brighter future, a future of their own making. high representative, you referred to the heart-breaking images. yet again, women forced away, young girls forced away from education, from institutions of learning. why? because a woman with an education can build a brighter future not only for herself, but for her family and for her country. and that’s what the taliban, the all-male leadership are afraid of – because they don’t want a brighter future for afghanistan, its women and children. they want a subjugated people they can control. afghanistan will never be free until we let girls learn. so if the taliban don’t do it for us, we must help afghan women and girls build their country’s brighter future. high representative, you must take every action you can on behalf of the eu to ensure that this situation is changed, that every pressure is brought to bear internationally. we have levers we can use. let’s use every single one of them.
a uachtaráin, last august footage of tragic scenes in afghanistan caught the world’s attention, such as desperate crowds running alongside a us military plane as it prepared to depart kabul. our initial shock here in the eu at how rapidly the taliban seized control has passed. but this atmosphere of desperation and fear in afghanistan has not. the taliban made many empty promises after their takeover that they would offer full amnesty to afghans who worked for the western—backed government and uphold women’s rights. no sooner were these promises made than they were broken. i’m in contact with an afghan woman and her family who tell me of their precarious situation with their rights and freedoms severely restricted and living in isolation. on 23 march, a glimmer of hope was soon extinguished when the taliban ordered girls secondary schools to shut just hours after they had reopened for the first time. many students were crying as they were turned away from their classes. as a former teacher, i am horrified by this denial of education and, by extension, denial of a future. the international community must increase its pressure on the taliban to ensure that not only are girls allowed to return to school as soon as possible, but also that the curriculum will provide them with a genuine education. this will be hugely important step, and just one of the many steps needed to improve the situation of women and girls in afghanistan.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 march the taliban announced that girls would not be allowed to attend secondary schools and that women would not be allowed to leave the country without being accompanied by a male relative. the taliban, ladies and gentlemen, are proving themselves to be what they are, a fundamentalist movement, because women are denied the right to education and the right to independence. in fact, many commercial activities are banned in the name of sharia. segregation, misogyny, discrimination, racism are just some of the aspects that are contributing to making afghanistan a veritable prison. prison, yes, because it is no longer possible to leave that country! there is, as i recall, a ban on leaving the country without an escort. and so, commissioner, president, the union, all of us, the european institutions, must react firmly, by welcoming refugees and continuing to deny recognition to the taliban. there can be no compromise on the skin and lives of afghan women and girls.
madam president, madam commissioner, the zero level of politics is the order given by the leaders to their executioners to spread terror, to intimidate, to humiliate and to attack the weakest and above all women. the zero level of politics is this ruling caste that hides its barbarity behind a friendly smile. the zero level of politics is those leaders who, on the one hand, underestimate the human being and above all women to the point of cancelling it and, on the other, remain stuck to their seat on the un commission on human rights. the zero level of politics is the complacency of european leaders or their complicit silence with those who do not hesitate for a single moment to crush any manifestation of non-submission. this is for the friendly powers of afghanistan who do everything to support the taliban and do nothing to ease the plight of women and girls. the zero degree in afghanistan is this regressive phase, which not only practices the total exclusion of women and girls, but still fails to feed its population. the zero degree of our politics would be to remain indifferent to these crimes and injustices. so i say to the commissioner: tell us what you need and we will organise ourselves to mobilise the resources necessary to at least prevent a population suffering terribly from starvation, but not to finance the brainwashing of the afghans by the taliban.
madam president, i wish to thank the high representative, mr borrell, for being here. following years of us—led war and taliban repression, over 22 million afghans now face acute food insecurity. as the humanitarian crisis sweeps through afghanistan, we have seen un appeals for assistance fall on deaf ears and suffering brushed aside as the eyes of the world focuses now on the horrors in ukraine. the very worst affected in afghanistan are women and girls. and the taliban have added to that pain by refusing to allow them access to basic education. the eu must step up support for afghan women, girls and female—focused civil organisations on the ground which face alarming pressure from the taliban regime. many eu countries took part in the invasion of afghanistan or fuelled it on with weapons exports. are those same countries willing to spend as much on peace as they did on war? i surely hope so, because women and girls in afghanistan cannot write with bullets or take a tank to school.
madam president, (inaudible) proverb, if you educate a man, you educate an individual, but if you educate a woman, you educate a nation. now more than ever, we have to stand with the women and girls of afghanistan to ensure that their basic rights are vindicated at some stage in the future. we have to give them hope. the tragedy that is afghanistan has been unfolding before our eyes for the last 50 years of my life. but at no stage do i now think that there can be anything other than certainty brought about the issue of women’s rights. we have to make it contingent and very clear to the taliban that they must come to heel when it comes to their absolutist, fundamentalist views of women and girls. the idea that you can build a nation by destroying the hopes and the aspirations of women and girls is an outrage in itself. we will have an entire nation held hostage to the taliban. we will have famine and poverty. and in the years ahead, we will look back and say, did we do enough? i ask the european commission and world leaders in general to put pressure on the taliban through their contacts, to insist that any humanitarian aid goes directly to those that need it most, rather than the taliban itself, who certainly don’t deserve it.
mr president, the eu-china summit happened last week, and that’s probably the only good news. members of this house are still sanctioned for speaking out the truth about the evident human rights violations. however, it’s essential to talk, open up difficult questions and stand firm in defending our stances. russian aggression in ukraine is a medium to test our challenging – and in many ways problematic – relations with china. supporting russia or any form of resistance to the aggression should have clear economic and political consequences. having said that, we cannot let this decision overshadow a long list of open disputes we have with china. as we work on energy independence, we should at the same time work on our industry redeployment and industrial independence. moreover, we have to finally end the selling of forced labour products on our market. we can discuss with china the global challenges and negotiate the rules on how we trade with goods, but we should never trade with our values.
mr president, i would also like to express my disappointment with the outcome of this summit. in the face of this bloody conflict in ukraine, we may have expected more from china. on the other key priority, which was about our shared environmental commitments, i was skeptical earlier. it must be said that we don't see much of a shift in chinese attitudes, and that's a great pity. but what we're seeing is a significant amount of pressure being put by china on european countries that are expressing some concern about the human rights situation in china or are cooperating with, say, taiwan. and the kind of pressure that lithuania is now facing, the kind of pressure that the czech republic was facing because of the senate president's trip to taiwan, that's totally unacceptable. i think we should set a clear red line where we don't give in to chinese pressure. we need a clear strategy for cooperation, but also to show our values and red lines that are uncrossable for us.
mr president, i’m very disappointed with the outcome of the eu—china summit. i think it highlighted the fact that we can no longer trust china as an honest, independent broker in terms of being a partner in trade or in diplomacy. the fact that in the discussions around ukraine and how it exposed itself to be a supporter of an illegal invasion where there are catastrophic, humanitarian challenges now in the ukraine, war crimes being committed, and yet china fails to condemn the putin war machine. so, i am very disappointed but i am not surprised, mr borrell. but i do welcome the fact that you did engage, even though i’ve criticised you previously when you travelled to moscow that time knowing full well that moscow was only going to use it as a propaganda stunt. but i welcome the fact that at least engagement was made. but we have to put on the record the appalling abuse of the uyghur people, the human rights abuses in hong kong, the dismantling of the free press of a democracy. they are many instances of china’s bully tactics, and we have to now accept that it is no longer an honest player in international affairs. it is a pariah, unfortunately.
mr president, the chinese president made four proposals on the ukraine crisis during the summit. he insists on promoting peace talks, on measures to prevent a wider humanitarian crisis, that we must build lasting peace in europe and eurasia, and we must prevent regional conflicts from spreading. before the meeting, china’s foreign minister’s spokesperson said ‘china disapproves of solving problems through sanctions and we are even more opposed to unilateral sanctions and long-arms jurisdiction that have no basis in international law. beijing would not be forced to choose a side or adopt a simplistic friend or foe approach. we should in particular,’ he says, ‘resist cold war thinking and block confrontation.’ now, china hasn’t given arms to either side and is well placed to be a peace broker. i would appeal to them to be a peace broker. i appeal to france and germany to step up efforts to stop this terrible war and work for peace. and for the life of me, i don’t understand why the un secretary-general isn’t shuttling between minsk and moscow to bring about mediation. please, he should start.
mr president, this eu year of youth is an opportunity for us as policymakers to really connect to our younger citizens in shaping a respected and ambitious eu, and the provision of european citizenship education within schools is essential for empowering younger people and making them feel that the eu belongs to them. the european parliament ambassador school programme should be scaled up and further resourced to ensure that students and teachers alike from all corners of the eu have the benefit of undertaking the programme. in my constituency, from galway to donegal, mayo across to louth, i have seen and i’ve witnessed the success of the schools programme at the most western periphery of our european union. eu citizenship education must be inclusive to ensure that all young voices are heard, particularly rural voices. and this programme, the e-pass programme, does this in droves. we must also build on the successes of programmes such as erasmus+ and the european solidarity corps and continue to develop our young citizens’ knowledge about the opportunities of our europe and strengthen cross-cultural exchanges by fostering a better understanding of the organisation and structure of eu institutions. like this, along with the decision—making processes, we will ensure increased youth participation and engagement in our democratic life in our eu. and now, more than ever, we certainly need it.
mr president, i supported the vote at today’s plenary session as it was a reasonable proposition. however, last week i was actually willing to co-sign amendments tabled by my constituency colleague, mick wallace mep, highlighting the inequity of the current fishing quota allocations, especially following brexit. we have to accept now that brexit had a catastrophic effect on the irish fishing industry and over the next four years, it will reduce the value of the fish catch by about 21 million per annum up to 2026, where it will be 43 million. so, it is a significant loss and, therefore, we have to now accept the premise that in the common fisheries policy we do need to have a very open, transparent reassessment of the allocation of fishing quotas. ireland simply does not have enough fish quota. other countries have quota that they don’t fully use. yet we can’t swap because we have nothing to give and we need more. so, i would hope that the common fisheries policy would have a genuine review with a view to assessing the inequity of the fishing allocation quotas to the irish fishing fleets.
mr president, i was happy to support the final vote on the revision of the ten-e guidelines. it is a very significant proposal. many of the projects of common interest included are aimed at enhancing energy security across the eu. one of the very important ones on that particular list is the celtic interconnector, which is an essential piece of energy infrastructure needed to protect irish interests post—brexit. we have to ensure that we can move electricity from where it is generated to where it is needed at specific times. ireland, with his ambitious plans to roll out large amounts of wind energy generation off the west coast of ireland in the years ahead, will at times have surplus energy to export into the european grid. but equally, at times we will have to draw from that through the celtic interconnector. so i very much welcome the report and i do look forward to the implementation and the investment in energy infrastructure across the eu so that we can have real renewable energy transferred across the entire continent where it is needed from where it is generated.
madam president, so the eu solution to the war in ukraine is more war: pile in the weapons, splurge on militarism, threaten to engage in all out economic and financial war against russia. so the same things you were doing already and expecting a different result, the true definition of madness. how is not selling kerrygold butter to russia going to save any ukrainian lives? how is buying filthy fracked us gas going to stop the war? they won’t, of course, because nowhere have sanctions ever succeeded in ending a military assault or achieving regime change. but what they have done is unleash economic devastation this time round, which will be paid for by the people of russia, including those out protesting against the war, and increasingly being paid for by the citizens of europe, facing massive energy price hikes, inflation and a catastrophic decline in their living standards. talk about shooting ourselves in the foot. and of course this moral outrage at russia’s illegal war, which has sparked this lunacy, is in sharp contrast to the lack of any such scruples in terms of the illegal us wars in iraq or afghanistan, which we not only didn’t condemn, but we actually joined in and continued to do business with them all the way. no such scruples about saudi arabia’s genocide in yemen and, even as the victims of those conflicts in the last few weeks meet to desperately seek financial pledges for their humanitarian crisis, they’re being left short by billions, while we’re happy to spend billions prolonging the war in ukraine. it makes me absolutely sick. seven weeks ago, germany’s chancellor scholz correctly said that peace in europe cannot be won against russia. but that’s exactly what we’re doing. yes, russia bears responsibility for this conflict. of course it does. but we cannot ignore the role of nato and the eu, instead of promoting peace and acting in the interests of the people of europe, the ukrainians, the eu citizens, and yes, the russian citizens too, has become a tool of nato and a military industrial complex. what is needed is an end to the conflict, an end to militarism, a ceasefire and a negotiated settlement. we should restore our role as a diplomatic one of promoting peace. anything else makes us complicit. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question)
a question asked by raising a blue card. dear colleague delors, do i understand correctly that you support no sanctions against an aggressor who commits war crimes? am i to understand that your recipe for saving ukrainian children is to not give them weapons to defend themselves? do i understand you to be justifying a war crime by other wars that happened a long time ago? if that's the case, it's a disgrace. and in conclusion, we are not a tool of nato. we are nato and we must protect every ukrainian citizen.
blue-card answer. – i would love colleague dzhambazki to tell me any circumstance in which nato has played a productive role or delivered peace anywhere. history has taught us that sanctions do not end military conflicts. they do not bring peace. they make the people suffer. not the oligarchs, the people, the people of russia, the people of europe. and they’re not going to help save lives because the more arms you pump into ukraine, the more the war will be prolonged, the more ukrainians will die. it might sound radical, colleagues, but the answer to war is not more war, it’s peace, and peace isn’t delivered by the barrel of a gun. it’s delivered by diplomacy, by dialogue. you can wish away your continent’s history, but we share a continent with russia. we will sit down with russia. there will be a negotiated peace and this organisation should be promoting it earlier, rather than delaying it and making sure that more ukrainians die. your feigning of sympathy rings hollow. it makes me sick, to be honest with you.
madam president, how many more buchas? how many more mariupols? how many more refugees? how many more bombed-out maternity hospitals? how many more mass graves? how many more rapes and summary executions? how many more war crimes do we have to unearth before we realise and accept and declare putin as a war criminal? the only way to address this war criminal is by bringing his industrial-military complex to its knees. europe has to act. it has to be strong and united. i say to germany and my german colleagues: we have to ensure that we cut off the support that putin gets by the purchase of gas and oil. i call for a full embargo, a full sanction on gas and oil from russia. it is the only way that we can hurt the military-industrial complex that is funding the war crimes in ukraine. how many more millions of refugees have to pour across the european borders to seek sanctuary from the bombs and the bullets and the appalling atrocities of russian troops and russian forces? and, at the exact same time, we are sending cheques to russia for the purchase of oil and gas. it is shameful. there’s a moral obligation on every country in the european union and, specifically, germany has to accept that it has a moral obligation as well to cut the gas, to cut the oil and cut the funding of putin’s criminality and war machine that is slaughtering europeans in ukraine as i speak. it will be shameful for us to continue in that vein. mr borrell, i urge you, and i urge the commission, to bring forward those sanctions now. not next week or next month.
madam president, as europe rightly welcomes ukrainian refugees, the eu border agency frontex is engaged in a brutal and illegal push-back campaign in the aegean sea against asylum seekers from iraq, syria, afghanistan, yemen and much of africa. amir zahiri and akif razuli fled afghanistan – which was destroyed by the us and nato for 20 years. they travelled from turkey to greece in 2020 to claim asylum. but the greek coastguard punctured their boat, arrested them and sent them to pre-trial detention. both now face a 50-year jail sentence. the treatment of zahiri and razuli demonstrates a complete transgression of the rule of law in europe. they are denied the fundamental right to a fair trial, liberty and security and the prohibition of inhumane and degrading treatment or punishment. there is a systematic criminalisation of asylum seekers at play. when is the commission going to do something about it? and i call for the acquittal of amir zahiri and akif razuli, who are on trial tomorrow morning in lesbos.
mr president, just last week, the european committee of social rights determined that ireland was in breach of article 16 of the revised european social charter, a binding human rights treaty, for chronic failure to provide sufficient accommodation for travellers and maintain adequate conditions of existing sites. the committee found there were inadequate safeguards governing travellers’ evictions within the criminal justice act and the housing act. they further ruled that ireland was in breach of the charter, as a significant number of local authority tenants reside in inadequate and substandard housing conditions. the eu’s roma strategic framework is weak and ineffective. the targets in the framework are a joke. it aims just to halve anti—roma and traveller discrimination by 2030. why aren’t we getting rid of it? why aren’t we going for 100%? it’s just nuts that we’re aiming by 2030 to halve the discrimination. surely, this isn’t good enough. we need to be ambitious: legally binding objectives to promote roma and traveller inclusion and adequate targeted funding are absolutely vital.
mr president, this is a very important topic and i would like to compliment my colleague behind me, maria walsh, who has done tremendous work here in parliament and elsewhere on this whole topic. as has been said, covid-19 put a huge mental strain particularly on young people, who couldn’t go to school, who were not able to meet their friends, who couldn’t play, and of course, on elderly people, who were locked at home and couldn’t see their families for long periods. then, as the commissioner pointed out, along comes the ukraine war, caused by the war criminal putin, and refugees coming here under enormous mental strain. of course, we are very pleased that so many people in europe are welcoming them and making it easy for them, despite the fact that it leads to a rise in the cost of living. and of course, that’s putting strain, particularly on a lot of people who are close to energy poverty and other types of poverty. so it’s good we discuss it and that we do a european strategy.
mr president, i too welcome the opportunity to speak on this very important issue and i want to compliment all colleagues across all political parties that keep this very much to the fore in the european parliament. of course, there are significant challenges now because of the covid-19 pandemic, social isolation, individual isolation, the changes in economic circumstances of families and individuals and now, on top of that, the significant challenge that europe faces and its obligations to ensure that we put in place the necessary resources around child psychiatrists, psychotherapy and counsellors to address what will happen and is happening in the months and years ahead with regard to refugees coming into europe from across ukraine. we have an obligation to increase the capacity of our health services, to provide support for children who have been scarred and who have been damaged and potentially destroyed. if we don't step in in time and provide the necessary supports around child psychiatrists, psychotherapy and counselling, we owe that to the children of europe, be they ukrainian or be they french or irish. let's deal with mental health pan-european to ensure that every child has an opportunity.
mr president, ireland spends just 6% of its total health budget on mental health; germany spends 12%; norway 13.5% and france 15%. more than 3300 children are waiting for a consultant appointment with the children and adolescent mental health service in ireland. acute adult psychiatric units are operating at almost 90% occupancy, yet the safe occupancy level is at 85%. we have a medicalised mental health model that all stakeholders appear to agree is a massive problem. yet, still we have little or no public health talk therapy. in her statement last october, commissioner kyriakides said eur 7 million will be invested in projects to prevent depression and suicide and to support more person-centred, community-based mental health services. in 2019, the hsc in ireland admitted that it needed eur 189 million to fully implement the staffing requirements alone that were set out in a vision for change that was going to deal with our failure to supply mental health services. the commission’s eur 7 million is a drop in the ocean.
mr president, some six years ago, a total of 84 million people suffered from mental health. and since then, we've been challenged to no end with the new realities of a pandemic and now a war. balanced mental health is, of course, everything. without it, we struggle to cope, adapt, maintain a good quality of life. we are currently living in a silent pandemic and no one deserves to suffer in silence. i ask the commission and the council to dedicate 2023 to an eu year that looks at mental health and develop an eu-wide mental health strategy, now and for all. i particularly like to highlight our staff, our teams and our advisors that work tremendously hard in these institutions that are experiencing and facing burnout and mental health pressures at work and at home. as dragoș pîslaru, our empl chair, shared, this debate deserves to be on a time when parliament is full. we cannot continue to stigmatise mental health yet mourn the loss of it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted against this report for a very simple reason. the schengen issue is the complete, absolute proof of the duplicity, hypocrisy and double standards of the european commission. for years, the european parliament, the european union and the european commission have known full well that bulgaria, romania and croatia have met all the criteria for membership of the schengen area, but they are not allowing us in. it's damaging our transportation and it's damaging our economy. but these reasons are rooted only and solely in the domestic political dramas of the countries at the heart of the european union, such as the netherlands. because of their internal problems and reasons, bulgaria, hungary, romania and croatia have such border problems. because they're on the border of the schengen area. this is unacceptable and unacceptable, which is why we voted against it.
mr president, i strongly support this resolution on the right to repair and i am glad today that the house adopted this report and sent a strong message to the commission. we know, of course, that there are millions and millions of tons of electrical goods discarded every year across the european union. in ireland alone, there are over 5 million phones in drawers, on shelves and inside garages all over ireland. so we have a problem with regard to waste, and what we need to do now is to shift the focus from disposal to the right to repair and the obligations that will have to be placed on people, companies and entities to ensure that there is proper affordability in terms of accessing repair of electrical goods. it happens day in, day out, across the european union, where products that break down are simply discarded, a guarantee system in place, and a new product provided to the customer. while that’s very welcome for the customer, there is a hidden cost to the environment. there is a hidden cost to the supply chain right back to the original manufacturing and where all those raw materials came from. so the right to repair is not just about consumers’ rights. it’s about us protecting the environment for future generations as well. so i commend that resolution on the right to repair.
mr. president, i would like to mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of the right to repair electrical appliances is among the main legislative initiatives set out in the european commission's plan for this year. it aims to extend the life of appliances and to provide a longer guarantee of consumer rights by facilitating the longer use of the appliances in question by the people who are supposed to use them. that's a great idea, and i support it, but i insist that the same idea be applied in the same way to those who make, say, solar panels or electric cars. it's not bad to ask the european commission, to ask a question, and to ask electric car manufacturers, like tesla, what is the carbon footprint of their car from start to finish, or those who make solar cells, or those who make levers, because it's good to know if it's as environmentally friendly as it's claimed. because we think, we suspect and we are convinced that this is not exactly the case, that someone is lying to us and trying to make fools of us and trying to conduct politics through our way of life.
mr president, the commission’s right to repair legislative proposal this year should include unrestricted access to spare parts and software, comprehensive information and affordable repair services. the commission should support local, grassroots and community repair initiatives, cooperatives and social enterprises. this is all important to avoid monopolies in relation to repairs. however, the commission’s circular economy action plan fixates on gdp growth and consumer empowerment, repeating the problems of the commission’s formulation of the european green deal as a new growth strategy. i believe we need to radically alter our economic system in order to move away from gdp growth, which depends on perpetual extraction of finite resources to fuel infinite expansion. the aim of economies should be to satisfy the basic needs and well-being of all people within planetary boundaries, regardless if the economy grows or not. the circular economy should not be used to rebrand acts of consumption as climate action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my group and i voted against this report for a very simple reason. there's no man who wouldn't support support for every single man who's fleeing war. in this case, we have an aggressive, unprovoked war that causes a lot of suffering on the territory of a sovereign state. we all help people who are fleeing from ukraine. we all help, even in a personal and physical capacity. what made me vote "abstained" was the paragraph that requires children who flee ukraine to be treated as independent of their social, ethnic origin, gender, sexual orientation, talent, citizenship or status. this is another case that is just outrageously redundant and outrageous. these are runaway kids, they need help. why should these reports be fed propaganda that has no place in them? that's why i voted "abstention".
mr president, war is always brutal, particularly brutal for children. many ukrainian children fleeing the war will be very vulnerable. dealing with their needs will be a massive challenge for member states that have not prioritised the most vulnerable in their own countries to date. a new approach is required to prioritise the interests of the most vulnerable. speaking of vulnerable, i went to lesbos last month for the trial of amir zahiri and akif razuli, who fled afghanistan, which was destroyed by us and nato for 20 years. they travelled from turkey to greece in 2020 to claim asylum, but the greek coastguard punctured their boat, arrested them and sent them to pre-trial detention. we went for their court case. after two days, it was postponed to today. at today’s court case, the prosecution witness, a greek coastguard, didn’t turn up. so the prosecution asked for a postponement. a postponement. the last day he didn’t turn up either, but his written statement was accepted. this is absolutely shocking. these people have spent over two years in prison, and it is criminal what we’re doing to them. this is a war crime.
mr president, this war is empowering all the worst elements everywhere – in russia, in ukraine and in nato countries. the voices of barbarism are drowning out the voices for peace. the arms industry, the fossil fuel industry, the warmongers and war lending polluters are presented by the media as the same people, the reasonable ones. we have just had the publication of the ipcc’s sixth assessment report. it’s telling us that we’re looking at the last chance to act to save human life on earth. the window of opportunity is closing for good. and what are the reasonable people, the grown—ups, doing? they are funnelling weapons into a hot war like there’s no tomorrow, implementing sanctions that are cleaving the world into new shapes that will set back the possibility to achieve meaningful climate action by for decades, while basic supply chain disruptions are going to cause prolonged suffering and destabilisation all over eurasia and probably in europe. we are being led by people who are prepared to see the world destroyed. it is insufferable.
blue-card answer. – i recognise the efforts made by the rapporteur to address the issue: the concerns of smaller and medium-sized countries. but the real problem is that the mechanism proposed doesn’t solve the issue because inside even the group of medium-sized countries, of course there is a difference between those who have more population than the others. so the eligible seats will tend to go more to the countries with more population, even inside the group of the medium-sized countries. so, in the end, it remains unfair and it changes the representation of our population, of our citizens here in the european parliament.
mr president, first of all, it is a good debate, and i think we can be satisfied. the idea of transnational lists was welcomed at the conference on the future of europe and this parliament has committed itself to responding to the citizens' demands. the citizens are right, they see further than we do, i think, because european democracy can no longer be held captive by a strictly national logic and only by the 27 national debates. the lists do not take anything away from anyone, but they double the democratic choice power of citizens who will be able to vote on two lists: one national, the other transnational. they will also be able to choose the presidency of the commission. on this point, our position is clear: there can be no head of list for the presidency of the commission unless we can vote on the lists. no lists, no head of lists. this is elementary, my dear paulo rangel. as in 2019, the national lists are a necessary step, but they are also a test. when president metsola was elected, a mid-term agreement was signed and lists are a priority. the groups have committed themselves to respecting them: pacta sunt servanda. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by mr glinne)
the answer is 'blue card'. first of all, the age of sixteen is not an obligation, dear colleague, it is an option. in some member states the right to vote is attained at the age of 16 and in others at 18. if there are states which wish to take up the option of granting the right to vote to 16-year-olds for the european elections, they will be able to do so thanks to this electoral law. member states which do not wish to do so will be able to retain the right to vote at 18 or at another age. so, as long as we leave the choice up to you and as long as there are states where you can vote at 16, i really don't see what the problem is. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question on the blue card)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. mr president, first of all, i must say that i do not understand the interpretation of the conclusions of the conference. i was in the working group and i heard the citizens say that this was not the case. and in the conclusions it is very clear that there is a double vision because there is talk of the direct election of the president of the commission, it is in the written conclusions that we have approved here. only one question: what is the role of the council in this model? the council is an undemocratic body. would it not be more rational to change the treaty and say that parliament appoints the president and the council gives its consent? that would really be reform in favor of the front-runner.
the answer is 'blue card'. dear paulo, i'm sure that we are discussing this in good faith. and if we are having a debate in good faith, you might remind our colleagues that in the citizens' panels the citizens had asked for half the members of this plenary to be elected by voting directly for european political parties. you can't say otherwise because it's in the citizen panels, and you could be easily disproved. the second point is that the conclusions of the conference clearly indicate the wish of the citizens to elect some of the members of this parliament from transnational lists. so when i said and said that the citizens are asking us to do this, i was telling the truth and i believe that this parliament should respect its commitment and follow through. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question on the blue card)
blue-card answer. – thank you, colleague. no, colleague, i want to reassure you: i am italian, elected in france, but i don’t think i will be a candidate also in sweden. but let me say that we don’t take anything away from the swedish system. nothing will change for sweden. your voters will elect you, or others, exactly in the same way, only they will have an additional democratic choice, an additional democratic power. they will be able also to vote directly for the european people’s party. i don’t think that today your voters can directly elect your european party. so we only increase democracy, nothing else.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. democracy is again hotly debated. in ukraine, not only freedom but also democracy is being defended. why do we not defend democracy here in the european parliament? democracy is about participation. stable democracy means participation by all. our society has become more diverse. the handling of diversity has become a hallmark of a stable democracy. the federal constitutional court has ruled that a percentage threshold in european elections is unconstitutional because it is a serious interference with the principles of the right to vote and equal opportunities, and cannot be justified. it cannot be the task of this parliament to exclude the will of the electorate from the outset. new percentage barriers only serve to maintain the power of the big parties, from which the people are turning away. we do not need artificial exclusion of voters by means of percentage barriers, especially since this would de facto only apply to germany. this parliament should therefore vote unitedly for democracy and against the percentage barrier.
president. - the voters are not particularly enthusiastic about the european elections every five years. to change that, since 2014 we have been forced to use the spitzenkandidat system, in which pan-european list drawers travel across the eu and campaign. they debate among themselves and debate a little, but there is no real feeling with the citizen. the only interest is from the eu bubble, which has turned on itself. we often hear that the gap between citizens and politicians must be narrowed. your answer to that is: let's make the gap even wider. that is why we are now looking at transnational electoral lists, another desperate search for a european demo. we have presented the proposal to the dutch and published it today. i suggest you do the same. only 23 percent of the dutch are enthusiastic about this idea. since you can't figure it out for yourself, i'll tell you. people don't want this. people are not interested in euro-nationalist political action. if we want to establish a strong link between the electorate and the elected, we must reduce the distance between them as much as possible. this incomprehensible proposal does the opposite.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! thanks for the work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. many citizens want a democratic europe that is understandable to everyone and open to participation. the conference on the future has shown this in a very impressive way, mrs grapini, and has also provided an argument for today's debate. the introduction of eu-wide lists for the next european elections, the lowering of the voting age to 16, the establishment of 9 may as a single election day and the necessary establishment of gender equality are also seen by the left as crucial steps towards a uniform electoral law across the eu. but the fact that you, mr simon, have made the introduction of a 3.5% threshold for germany a de facto precondition for your approval of the now very controversial issue of the introduction of a european electoral district and transnational lists raises questions, above all, mr president, as to whether the electoral law will provide more active and passive political participation for all, especially those who have been excluded, critical and disappointed up to now. let us reject this point in the vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course we all want a progressive european electoral system. i do not yet see the added value of transnational lists for citizens. the future will provide us with answers. but i cannot imagine the 3.5% clause for small parties in germany. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. the free voters in particular were members of the european democratic party before being elected to the european parliament. all the parties represented here are doing a solid democratic job. i therefore ask you to support amendment no 26, which is to be included in addition to the package negotiated. otherwise, five million votes will be invalid in the future. this is neither democratic nor european, but only helps the big parties.
mr president, it is time to take the european parliament to the next level and, indeed, it is time to take the european project to the next level, and this could not have come at a better time. citizens were given the opportunity to speak directly in this chamber itself, and they told us the changes they want to see for the european union to be closer to them, closer to citizens. and what a stronger signal than this: the strengthening of democracy with parliament itself initiating this procedure now for the 2024 european elections. and with these changes, we are not only proposing a second ballot with a small transnational list, voting to give european political direction, with a lead candidate to preside over the european commission. but it also gives 16 year olds the right to vote. it works for gender equality in this chamber, and gives stronger rights to people with all abilities to participate in our elections. having the european demos strengthens each member state because we are so much stronger when we are together. let us make history together tomorrow in our vote!
mr president, transnational lists have only advantages. they do not take anything away from the member states, they only add to them and will bring fresh air to a parliament which they will help to prevent national debates from being reproduced here. we have also reached a compromise on this matter with the major groups in parliament. they also bring us closer to the citizens because europeans have proposed this reform at the conference on the future of europe because the people want to elect the president of the commission, the way he has to express his belief in a european 'demos'. i support this idea from the legitimacy of representing here a group committed to building the union from below, to ensuring that the basque country has a voice, recognition and the role it must play in a union of which we are founders. we did so because we were committed from the beginning to building it from all its diversity. that is why we are opposed to percentages which may leave out nations and cultures which are european. we also support transnational lists which strengthen our will to live together and cooperate. that means living together in diversity. so to speak of centralism, referring to the powers of the union, is a joke here. the centralists are those who oppose upwards more europe and downwards deny their own diversity.
mr president, there’s no doubt about it, there’s a huge disconnect between the citizens of europe and the eu institutions. we see growing inequality, tiny numbers voting, even a country leaving. and what we have here is actually a technical fix to something that isn’t a technical problem, because the reasons people aren’t voting isn’t because of shenanigans around the allocation or the breakdown of the way in which you divided the spoils or anything like that. the reason is that there is a disconnect from the citizens because this is a neoliberal project which furthers the interests of big business ahead of the interests of citizens. and the citizens of europe know that the parliament isn’t a real parliament. its powers are very limited. it’s a consensus factory really, a sideshow to the real power, which is wielded by the council and where neoliberal governments can crush economies if it suits them. we in ireland remember the eurozone crisis and the iron rod of austerity. so until we address that, any voting arrangements you like isn’t going to change that.
i support some of the elements of this amendment to this legislation in that part where we talk about younger people having access to the vote. i also support making it easier for people with disabilities to access. i am certainly very reserved and i am opposed to transnational lists. we're all elected in the states. we have our constituencies, we appeal to our constituents, and then we answer to those constituents. i am very much in the public on fridays and no one has ever asked me or said that this democracy in europe would be better if - i don't know - slovenia was represented by someone from finland or from somewhere else. we are united in political groups and there we can also represent the political interests of our groups. but certainly what was said in the debate that this is now an approximation of this leading candidate and that this is a marriage, that the leading candidate will also be the chairman of the committee, is simply not true and is misleading. - thank you. - thank you.
the debate this evening shows that there is still a great deal to be clarified and i think that it is, from my point of view, more unclear now than it was at the beginning of the debate. and i'm going to say a few things. there have been some very big arguments here: some are technical, some are political. first, you have to answer and maybe the commissioner will give you the answer. what about article 14 of the treaty? i mean, are we breaking it or not? we need to know what to do with this. second: i'm from a country of 20 million. citizens of an even smaller country, for example croatia or another smaller country, do not have the opportunity to know the 27 places. and there are many candidates for the 28 seats in all the states. how do we explain this to the public? it has been argued here that, well, the citizens' conference would have opted for this. my question is how many of the citizens participated in this debate? aren't we more representative because we have millions of votes behind us, because now, when we speak, an entire country is voting for us? and there's one more answer that should be given. i am part of a small party that is not part of a european family. are small parties excluded or not? yes, i support people with disabilities, i support equality. (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, mr verhofstadt was right when he said that this proposal would not abolish the national lists. however, he did not mention the fact that this would weaken the national lists. the commission has already decided to open the procedure for the appointment of the members of the european parliament. so, simply saying that the national lists will lose nothing is simply logically mathematically incorrect and don't say that. secondly, the rhetoric clearly shows that some european standards are being imposed, for example that people under 18 can vote, from 16 onwards, which is not the interference of the european union. and thirdly, when we talk about what is good for democracy, it is good that the voter knows who he is voting for and i can say responsibly in croatia that people do not know these people who will lead these lists, and therefore simply us, if what is democratic is to vote for national lists.
mr president, the people advocating for this initiative claim they want more engagement from the citizens across europe with the eu. but, i mean, how in god’s name is this going to fix us? many people are asking, what is democracy? democracy is where the people have a say in how their society is organised. there isn’t much of it around. in member states, it’s been watered down dramatically by the weakening of local government – one of the best vehicles that the people had for connecting with those that were ruling them. everything has been centralised and it’s even worse at eu level. who runs this place? we have three institutions – we’ve the european parliament, we’ve the council and we’ve the commission. we are the only ones directly elected but we can’t initiate legislation. if it’s really a question of democracy, why aren’t we the ones that are initiating legislation? the council is more powerful and so is the commission than us. the council meetings are held in secret and the commission are not elected by the people. how can you talk about this place having democracy? that’s a myth.
madam president, today we are facing another important challenge, and this is how to practically align the persistent organic pollutants regulation with the stockholm convention and with the overall aim to protect human health and the environment. what we need to keep in mind is that in each and every step we have to set the basis for sustainable chemicals by design, maintaining the precautionary approach and also setting the standards for pops in waste. we therefore need to take actions to prohibit, while implementing legal and regulatory measures necessary to eliminate both the production and use of chemicals listed in annex a and the import and export of these chemicals. we have to guarantee that the transition to a high—quality, toxic—free materials cycle cannot coexist with an approach that allows the recycling of pops—containing waste based on weak pops limit values. in this regard, we should be able to establish a framework, but it is about creating a global level playing field, leveraging, at the same time, the eu position on the chemical markets. i am fully in line with the limits that the rapporteur proposed to the respective annexes. adoption of high limits leads to contamination of recycling of pops, which re-enter the economy instead of being disposed of. and needless to say that the market players will have a strong role in the implementation of the pops regulation. they will be able, according to the market knowledge, a condition to adapt for a toxic-free environment and a truly circular economy.
madam president, people living in ireland produce more than 40 million tonnes of waste every year. most of our hazardous products are exported to other european countries, and much of this waste contains toxic organic compounds that we call pops. during the process, as colleagues have said, whether ingested or inhaled, these pose a severe risk to human health and to the environment. and shockingly, now, we find that pops can be found worldwide, in all major climate zones and geographic areas, including deserts, where there are no significant sources of pops. this is the reality of an insane economic system which generates pollution without a sense of responsibility for future generations. while we talk about exporting our waste and improving our recycling processes, this won't protect the entire biosphere from toxic properties. so while i welcome the tightening of limits and so on, we mustn't forget that we must concentrate on achieving non-toxic material change and a new approach to human activity.
madam president, the transition to high-quality and toxic—free material cycles cannot be achieved while allowing persistent organic pollutants to be recycled in materials. the weak limits on the presence of persistent organic pollutants proposed by the commission would undermine the stockholm convention and the european green deal. weak limits would do more harm than good. weak limits would undermine the credibility of recycling. i’m fairly happy with the text of the regulation before us, as amended by the environment committee. the limits and the presence of persistent organic pollutants that are agreed are all stricter than the current limits and most of them go beyond the commission’s proposal. this should lead to an enhanced protection of the environment and human health. the elimination of toxic legacy substances from waste is vital to ensure a safe and clean circular economy and this amending regulation can certainly help to achieve that.
mr president, we have spoken in this parliament about the persecution of religious minorities in many human rights reports. today we are doing so in a specific report which deals with the persecution of all minorities on grounds of belief or religion, but also the persecution suffered by those who have none. we have tried in this report not to give a hierarchy of suffering and also to denounce the use of beliefs or religion to impose discriminatory policies and laws that violate human rights: in the name of religion, women's rights are prohibited in afghanistan; in the name of religion, lgbt communities are criminalized in uganda; and religion is used to prohibit the ratification of the istanbul convention, the only international instrument for the defence and fight against violence against women. i therefore believe that this is a complete report and i thank the rapporteur for his work.
mr president, from nigeria to china, the state of religious freedom continues to deteriorate. from genocide to legal restrictions, hundreds of millions of believers – be they christians, muslims, buddhists, or other groups – are facing terrible suffering every day. while i welcome the ep’s report on the persecution of religious freedom, i cannot help but express my dismay at the way this report has been hijacked to stigmatise religion itself. today, religious persecution is one of the key drivers of many of the challenges the world faces. and that’s why not ideological anti—religious stands, but firm support for the persecuted around the world, together with the appointment of a new special envoy for freedom of religion, supported with the right instruments, must be the priority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the intergroup on religious freedom and i have been waiting for this report for a long time, and i would like to thank mr karski very much for the hard work he has put into this report and the negotiations that have followed. i am sorry to say, however, that despite the extraordinary efforts made, this negotiation has proved problematic. all the references that should and could denounce the situation in which millions of believers live, primarily christians, more than 80 percent, but also baha'is, uighurs, rohingya and many others who daily risk their lives for their beliefs have been eliminated. references to regimes guilty of these persecutions, from china to nigeria to pakistan, have also been removed. i mean, the world is full of people risking their lives for their faith, but we don't write about whose fault it is. in return, we have a text full of references to the abortion issue, because, as always, they are now trying to use an important resolution to assert their own ideological agenda. that is why - and i conclude, mr president - we have tabled a number of amendments and have asked for a separate vote, because we want to be free to defend those who suffer because of their beliefs, without having to adhere to the single line of the left.
mr president, i too join my colleagues in calling for freedom of religion and, of course, freedom of expression to be included among the fundamental human rights and violations of these rights are unacceptable. it is equally unacceptable that action be taken against believers in a way that restricts their human rights or even directly interferes with their freedom and life. all these crimes must be prosecuted. of course, unfortunately, a lot of these crimes go unreported and go unpunished. it is truly striking that even in this century, in this decade, we still have countries where religious laws, such as blasphemy laws, take precedence over national law. this is truly unacceptable. and i think we should focus on our two tools that we have mentioned in this report as well. it's development aid and trade agreements. we should use these tools to make sure that this year on august 22, which is the international day of remembrance for the victims of religious persecution, we can say that we have actually done something for these victims.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, the european union defends the right of every individual to freedom of religion and belief. marginalisation and scapegoating of persons belonging to religious minorities and atheists can be an early warning or already a sign of more severe persecution that, in turn, can drive to conflict and even a wider crackdown on the whole of society. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr karol karski and all members of the european parliament who have contributed to this timely report on the persecution of minorities on the grounds of belief or religion, which provides clearer recommendations on how the european union should continue to spearhead the protection and promotion of freedom of religion or belief. we take good note of some key recommendations, such as the need to increase public diplomacy on freedom of religion or belief, to work on the situation of minorities in conflict situations and the protection of religious cities, as well as the strong call to the european union to continue its firm action at multilateral level. in line with the european union action plan on human rights and democracy, freedom of religion or belief remains an essential priority of our external human rights policy. accordingly, many eu delegations have enshrined it as a priority in their human rights country strategies. let me assure you that the eu stands in solidarity with the victims. the line with all our partners across the world is clear: the european union consistently and unequivocally condemns discrimination, intolerance, persecution and violence against, or by, any person based on grounds of religion or belief. we call on countries to protect the right for everybody to have or not have a religion or belief, to manifest or to change their religion or belief, while condemning the criminalisation of apostasy and the abuse of blasphemy laws. over the past year, we carried out key actions to promote and protect freedom of religion or belief, such as raising our concerns of violations in around 20 human rights dialogues, issuing high-level statements such as an eu declaration on the occasion of the international day commemorating the victims of religious persecution and through our work in multilateral fora. the latest resolution on freedom of religion or belief, adopted by consensus during the last human rights council session, renewed the mandate of the un special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief. in addition, we also closely exchanged on freedom of religion or belief with regional organisations, in particular the organisation of islamic cooperation, through regular senior official meetings or the istanbul process. we look forward to continue cooperating closely with the european parliament in identifying and addressing the most serious violations of freedom of religion or belief around the world.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. this report could have been an important opportunity to draw attention to the fact that christianity is the most persecuted religion in the world today. in contrast, the rapporteur's text, through amendments by the left-liberal majority, no longer mentions the serious problem of christian persecution. instead, it deals with issues of gender, lgbtq, or abortion under the umbrella of freedom of belief and religion. now numbering over 360 million, the number of christians who are victims of severe persecution or discrimination continues to rise. whereas a year ago, 1 in 8 christians suffered discrimination, now 1 in 7 christians suffer discrimination because of their faith. the forms of persecution can vary from general discrimination to restrictions on freedom of expression and religion to physical attacks. the latter is already exhausting the un definition of genocide. one reason for the increase in persecution is the lack of protection for christians. that's why the hungary helps program has an even bigger role internationally, helping christian communities survive, stay at home and stay, now bringing help to where it's needed worldwide. the five-year-old programme has launched support programmes in more than 40 countries, helping half a million people. for example, it has enabled christians in the middle east to choose to remain in their homeland rather than emigrate, or to return after the war has eased.
the next item is the briefing by mr david lega on the eu strategy to promote children's education in the world (2021/2209 (ini)) (a9-0058/2022).
mr president, dear colleagues, education is fundamental for future global development, and also for the strengthening of human dignity itself. that is why it is crucial that in our development aid, the eu and its member states redouble efforts to support education around the world. at the same time, we must ensure that the standards are in line with our values and carefully monitor any attempts to abuse education, undermine peace, call to violence or spread hate, including anti—semitism. for this reason, i believe it is necessary to ensure that our funding, including to the palestinian authorities, as well as unrwa, is conditional on ensuring compliance with our values. we must have a mechanism in place to guarantee transparency and to respond to any abuse of our funding. by failing to do so, we risk undermining the aims and objectives of our development aid and the very values on which our union has been founded.
member of the commission. – mr president, this debate is a timely opportunity to discuss the impact the covid—19 pandemic has had on children worldwide, and their chance to obtain quality and safe education. lockdowns, school closures and the resulting disruption to children’s lives and that of their families and communication have negatively affected a generation. this debate is also timely also because of, as the rapporteur, mr lega, said, the tragedy in ukraine and the tragedy of children with schools under attack and millions of children forced to leave their home, their school, their country. thank you also very much to countries and member states organising education, including for child refugees. i’d therefore to thank the rapporteur, mr lega, and all the members of the european parliament who have contributed to this report. we welcome the report and its recommendations. honourable members, the pandemic overturned, within weeks, the global education landscape, affecting over 1.8 billion children around the world. it made us aware of how vital the availability of digital technologies, equipment and internet access is. our approach, as published in the digital education action plan, is that proper support for a resilient and inclusive digital education must be holistic and cannot replace the wider social and community functions a school education provides for children. e-learning was not a solution for the youngest, pre-school children or those without connectivity. children and youth in the most vulnerable situations in every country are paying the heaviest price: children living in poverty, children in countries in conflict, children from ethnic minority groups, children with disabilities or displaced children. this further compounds the already significant negative socioeconomic consequences, with a long—term impact on children’s learning, well-being and mental health, and with their development and protection. the european union has been working with partner countries since the beginning of the crisis to minimise the impact of the pandemic on learning and the well-being of children, to facilitate a safe return to school and to prioritise school reopening. in this regard, the european union supports education in approximately 100 countries worldwide. we are working with partner countries to develop covid—19 response plans and to adopt education cooperation programmes to ensure delivery of education services, distance learning, curriculum adaptation and support to teachers. the european union is a leading voice in the area of education in emergencies and protracted crises. we have set a target of 10% of our humanitarian aid earmarked for education in emergencies. we are also strongly committed to increasing eu external funding for education. at least 20% of the funds from the global europe instrument should be devoted to human development. our support in education focuses on quality by investing in teachers’ equity and by promoting girls’ education, and on matching skills with emerging labour market needs. the european union is also fully engaged in the preparation of the un transforming education summit to be held in september 2022 – because we will only achieve our goals if we place education at the forefront of the international debate on sustainable development.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. 40% of the african population is under 15 years old. this makes africa the youngest continent on earth, with 10 million new people entering the labour market every year. this presents both a huge challenge to curb migration and an opportunity to revive the african economy. african countries can only fulfil the potential of their youth if the rising generations are provided with adequate education and training. education, security and job creation are among the most important tools we have to help people stay in their country, and the eu's external policy should support them with all the means at its disposal. as we pointed out in the report, local churches and religious organisations have experience in this area, which the eu cannot ignore in the future if it is to achieve real results. but investing in education alone does not bring lasting results! as we have said in the report before us, education and training must be adapted to the needs and opportunities of the labour market and the economy. the eu's involvement in supporting education can bring real results, but real change can only be achieved if the eu uses available resources much more effectively and purposefully than before, in partnership with local organisations and taking into account real local needs and economic conditions.
in writing. investing in education is a prerequisite for building a sustainable future. however, the lack of appropriate national regulations and strategies, as well as the lack of qualified professionals, the necessary infrastructure and the appropriate equipment and facilities, hamper access to quality education for all at all levels in many developing countries. income loss and school dropouts have become more common in recent years due to the covid-19 pandemic, which has significantly increased the risk of child marriage, radicalization, and illegal migration. acquiring the skills and competences of teaching and learning that meet the needs of local economies and life in the 21st century is essential. the explosion of africa's young population requires, in particular, support for quality education and the promotion of vocational training to increase mobility and access to markets and rights. efforts should be made to provide children with inclusive, local education instead of remote schools and to invest in well-qualified teachers to enable children to acquire skills relevant to the labour market. it is particularly important to support girls in accessing quality education and to address the problem of early school leaving for girls. therefore, projects should focus on the social empowerment of girls, the education of displaced or disadvantaged children and the development of education in both overcrowded slums and isolated rural communities.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague pernille weiss for her report, which touches on a number of issues. of course, equality between women and men is a fundamental value for us, but i would also like to highlight the points made by the honourable member. women's entrepreneurship supports their empowerment, of course, their economic status, and it's the oecd countries that have a better average than the european union. and that's really striking. only less than one third of start-ups are women. this is not a good business card for the european space, for our countries. and of course, if more women have left the business than started it, that really calls for our attention. the pay differentials, that's what we've been talking about. we in the czech republic have a 20% difference and we're not going to get any better. i thank the rapporteur for pointing this out in her report. we need entrepreneurship programs, education, and especially capacity building, digital skills, no doubt, and also access to capital. i am glad that this report will be put to the vote and i am happy to support it.
mr president, entrepreneurship and enterprise are very important elements for a society to move forward. in order for a society to achieve its competitiveness index, as in the european union, it is essential that this impetus be given. it is also for job creation. but here we see again how there is no gender equality: there is a huge gap and a huge difference between male and female entrepreneurship. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. there is also very little representation in the business associations. in short, i think mrs weiss's report is a great one to echo, to spread the word that we have a serious problem here: that there is no gender equality and that there is a gap that we have to close for the good of european society and for job creation.
mr president, i very much welcome this report. looking forward, it’s very important that these two issues are addressed to ensure that women have independence and access to entrepreneurship and then self—employment. there are two key issues. that is, first, education, and also childcare. those two key components are very often a bar to women advancing themselves and their communities. and the other significant challenge, of course, is microcredit. and that is a key issue that has been identified in many reports for many years for women to access independence and entrepreneurship. so i would urge the commission and particularly member states in general to ensure that any policies that are being pursued are inclusive, are dynamic, and try to reach out to equality. that being: access to education and childcare as one component, but ensuring that there’s also access to credit and microfinance for the establishment of enterprises by women. so, while i commend the report, we have a lot of work to do in this house and in member states throughout the union.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank rapporteur weiss and the femm committee for this own-initiative report. it confirms the parliament’s relentless dedication to women’s economic empowerment, and its crucial insight on what remains to be done. the european commission is well aware that the gender gap in entrepreneurship has been lessening way too slowly over the past years. it is also known that woman entrepreneurs are more likely to operate smaller businesses or on a part-time basis, to have fewer employees and lower levels of financial literacy. clearly, gender stereotypes still pose significant barriers to women’s entrepreneurship. further, in order to encourage women to access the labour market or to be self-employed, we need to ensure the implementation of the work-life balance directive; accessible and quality childcare needs to be available in all member states. through its entrepreneurship policy, driven by the green deal, the sme strategy, the new skills agenda and the digital education action plan, the european commission is doing its utmost to accelerate and deepen the shift towards a more balanced world for entrepreneurship. in accordance with the commission’s gender equality strategy 2020-2025, the sme strategy emphasises that educational and upskilling activities are essential for all sme managers and employees, with a particular focus on empowering women and girls to become founders. several projects on entrepreneurship education founded by the eu programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium—sized enterprises and the single market programme are being implemented on the ground with the aim, for example, to promote competencies, role models, improve access to network and mentoring. regarding access to funding, the commission is currently negotiating with the european investment bank group a gender-smart financing initiative under the investeu programme. the goal here is to provide financial incentives to female businesses, business angels and support gender investment strategies. in terms of learning opportunities, there is a clear deficit of women in information and communication technologies and in science, technologies, engineering and mathematics. according to the oecd programmes for international student assessment, boys and girls are almost equally likely to work in a science-related field. however, with age and at higher levels of education, girls tend to steer away from the stem and ict subjects and are more likely to choose careers in the social and environmental sciences, as they perceive the former to be less people-oriented and to add less value to society. to address this complex reality, the commission has put in place a series of stem festivals, a project that is supporting girls and women to enhance their digital and entrepreneurial competencies to create value and solve social challenges in different economic sectors. last but not least, with the support of the european parliament pilot project, the commission is putting in place learning support for entrepreneurs facing the challenges for going green and digital. the e-learning platform will give entrepreneurs and would-be entrepreneurs the opportunity to learn and acquire entrepreneurial digital and sustainable competencies. here also a special section will be dedicated to the needs of women entrepreneurs. the latest project is a token of the commission and parliament’s shared willingness to work alongside to help women overcome all these barriers. your own-initiative report clearly paves the way for the european union, where women’s entrepreneurship will finally be perceived as what it truly is: a catalyst for a more prosperous and fairer society.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. according to the commission communication an equality union: a strategy for gender equality 2020-2025, women and men in all their diversity should have equal opportunities for advancement and be economically independent, receive equal pay for work of equal value, have equal access to finance and receive fair pensions. ensuring equality would mean unlocking the full potential and talents of all eu citizens, which would make a significant contribution to europe's economic recovery, job creation, growth and enhancing the eu's competitiveness. it's been more than 25 years since the beijing declaration, a powerful un-sponsored declaration on equality between men and women. it is time for the eu to take responsibility for its history, its culture, its principles and values and to move forward in respect of its treaties, fully implementing gender equality. i believe that now is the time for the eu to take a leading role in gender equality, and to do so it must lead by example and fully implement gender equality itself.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's fisheries policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's fisheries policy.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as rapporteur for this own-initiative report, i would first of all like to welcome the commission's proposal on the new strategy for a sustainable blue economy in the european union. i should also like to say that i regret the absence of specific targets for the various sectors, in particular fisheries and aquaculture. fisheries and aquaculture are key to providing europe with healthy food with high nutritional value and a low carbon footprint. but there is still a long way to go towards its greater economic and environmental sustainability. in this context, our fishermen must be able to be at the forefront of the most committed to reversing the loss of marine biodiversity, due to the major socioeconomic impact that such losses can have on the european union's fishing industry. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european union agency for fundamental rights' activities in the field of the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons, in particular the prevention of torture and ill-treatment, and the financing of the european union agency for fundamental rights' activities in the field of human rights, in particular the prevention of torture and ill-treatment, and the financing of the european union agency for fundamental rights' activities in the field of human rights. and let us not forget that effective marine protected areas can be extremely beneficial for fisheries and for the sustainability of fisheries resources. that is why properly science-based investments must be made to create marine protected areas that are not only protected on paper, but that can ensure the long-term sustainability of resources and, with it, the economic sustainability of all fishermen, not just some. another message i would like to highlight concerns the scope of the blue economy. this broad segment of our economy encompasses all industries and sectors related to the oceans, the seas, coastal areas and even land-based aquaculture and seaweed production. but this also creates an added challenge, because we are talking about sectors that often have different, sometimes even antagonistic, objectives and visions, which, in the absence of strategic planning of maritime space, causes damage, and is particularly worrying for the most fragile sectors, such as small-scale fishing. the european union and the member states must therefore seriously address this reality which represents yet another socioeconomic strain on the shoulders of our fishermen. a sustainable blue economy should also include the balanced development of emerging activities such as blue biotechnology, ocean energy production or tourism, but always alongside more traditional activities such as shipping, fisheries and aquaculture, which should be equally supported in the demand for their sustainability. as regards international ocean governance, it should address environmental issues on a cross-sectoral basis, ensuring a level playing field and equal treatment of all maritime economic activities. and in this context, i would like to welcome the role of regional marine conventions and regional fisheries management organisations in strengthening governance based on the best available scientific knowledge. i cannot help but emphasize the role of women. they are key throughout the sustainable fisheries value chain, particularly in coastal communities, and they should also have access to decent working conditions and incomes, as well as greater visibility and representation in decision-making structures and processes. i would like to conclude by recalling that, in order to increase the competitiveness and economic performance of the fisheries and aquaculture sectors, special attention must also be paid to vocational training, lifelong learning and the dissemination of scientific, technical and innovative knowledge and practices, and this implies, among other measures, stronger and wider cooperation between schools, universities, public authorities and industry, in order to promote actions based on the best available scientific knowledge, capable of ensuring economic competitiveness, ensuring environmental sustainability and the social inclusion of these sectors which are so important for our food security and for the future of our food autonomy.
mr president, it is time for some common sense in ocean protection and not the bare minimum proposed by some of my colleagues here today. protected means protected. and we must protect our marine protected areas. let’s face it – most marine protected areas in the eu are nothing but lines on a map. in almost every mpa today, you find gas exploration, marine traffic, and yes, intensive industrial fishing. only 10% of eu waters are so-called marine protected areas and 86% of these mpas are bottom trawled, while trawling is actually 1.4 times more intensive inside mpas in northern europe. and this, to my mind, is a complete contradiction. so i call on meps tomorrow to use their vote to support concrete measures for all marine protected areas. as i said, protected must mean protected.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for her work. i think in an irish context, there’s no doubt about it, fishermen have been sold out; from the beginning of the european union, sold out to the bigger interests of the bigger countries, and sacrificed and unsupported by successive governments. so it’s understandable then, when an important proposal – the end of bottom trawling in marine protected areas – comes on the table that they feel threatened by that. and i understand that. but as my colleague has just said, a marine protected area must be a protected area. and the truth is that bottom trawling threatens our ecosystems, disturbs habitats, releases carbons and is a practice that we cannot have continuing. in an irish context, our oceans are 2% marine protected areas. i understand the fishermen believe that these will get bigger and this will impact on their livelihoods. but the – i suppose – future of humanity is also at stake and the obligation is on the eu and our government to support our fishermen, which they have never done before now.
mr president, the commission will report in december of this year to the council and the parliament with regard to the review of the common fisheries policy. and certainly we need to take into account many voices in this particular debate. but the one thing for sure is, there are competing interests out there in our oceans across the globe. when you look at the context of huge industrial ships, factory ships scooping up entire areas of the sea, coupled with now the concerns of local coastal communities around the issue of offshore wind – the fact that that could be impacting on the ability to fish in shallow waters in the offshores. so the common fisheries policy, i believe, has an obligation not just to look at the dividing up of the quota allocations between member states – and ireland must have its voice heard in that – but equally, we have to assess the impact that the factory ships are having on fishing communities across the european union, and also to ensure that irish fishers and those in shallow waters have access to their fishing grounds, even in the event of offshore wind becoming very prevalent in those areas.
mr president, i’d like to thank the rapporteur for her report. she talks about the impact of the loss of marine biodiversity, protected marine areas and the need for balanced development, the role of international governance and she talks about coastal communities. we’re in a strange place in ireland because, as my colleague has already pointed out, fishermen in ireland have been shafted for years. we sold out our fishing rights in return for subsidies for dairy and beef a long time ago. and the fishermen have never got a fair deal ever since. when we’re introducing rules and regulations for fishermen across europe, we need to take on board the unique position of irish fishing, which has not been given a fair deal. and, going forward, whatever way we’re going to tackle this, the fishermen have to be part of the solution and you can’t just regard them as part of the problem.
mr president, after a strong campaign under the city’s first female chief executive, ann doherty, i’m delighted that cork is set to become one of the eu’s climate neutral cities by 2030 under the eu’s mission programme. this will mean transforming transport systems, making cork a global centre for offshore renewable energy, fostering urban diversity as well as a strong retrofit campaign for warm, sustainable housing. cork is known as the ‘rebel county’. well, this is a chance to rebel for a sustainable future, and against an economy dependent on fossil fuels and against cold houses and fuel poverty, but to rebel against climate change – the greatest threat facing humanity. so i say, ‘up the rebel county.’
mr president, the food and agricultural organization, a part of the united nations, has identified the fertiliser issue as a stand-out difference between previous crises in agriculture, in 2007 and 2011. the price of fertiliser is not just an agricultural issue; it concerns the security of global food supplies. and if the european union, as a global leader, does not take immediate action, we are going to have a profound impact on the cost of food for the poorest in the globe. so i would call on the commission and particularly other major food-producing countries to collectively come together to see how they can address the issue of the price of fertiliser to ensure that fertiliser is identified initially in particular for the countries that need it most in terms of planting season and the cyclical nature of crop production. otherwise, we will have a profound crisis for humanity in the next number of months in north africa and across tracts of the middle east as well. so we do need to take immediate action to drive down the price of fertiliser and increase food supply.
mr president, i think there is a terrible irony that as europe focuses on the war in ukraine, almost without notice the journalist who more than anyone else exposed war crimes by the us military in iraq and afghanistan, julian assange, has had his extradition case dealt with quietly, without comment, without fanfare, paving the way for him to be extradited to the united states to face espionage case, which could see him in jail for 175 years, for having had the audacity to expose war crimes. and the criminals walk free while his life is in danger. his crime: shining the light. now, the british supreme court has refused to hear an appeal against the magistrate’s decision to extradite him. now he can be extradited. the case is with priti patel; it could also be overturned by biden. tomorrow is world press freedom day, if the commission and every single one of the political groups here do not raise the call for the release of julian assange, it makes a mockery of that day.
mr president, the great strike by the workers of the cosco monopoly in greece, on the dock of the port of piraeus, for health and safety measures and collective agreements, is a just and heroic one. the workers are fighting, who a few months ago mourned a colleague who fell from a crane bridge that was not maintained, and now another colleague has been crippled by a 12 meter high fall, while their employer has offered them a three euro raise. workers who don't know if they'll return to their families after work, and with their struggle they face savage repression, government swat teams, employer terrorism, threats, courts, attempts at organized strike. they are in conflict with the european union's, the greek governments' and the port services directive's miserable labour relations system, which was voted by all parties except the kke, and provides for wages and rights in charters for port workers, and for undue profits for the groups that operate them. the fight continues and solidarity is burning to win the workers of cosco, to win those who produce the wealth.
mr president, dear colleagues, more than half a million people have now been forcibly deported from ukraine to russia, including over 120 000 children. moreover, from russia-occupied territories, some 2 300 children have been kidnapped in order to be adopted by russian families. these forced deportations and moving of people to transitory camps, where they are vulnerable and live in appalling conditions, smack of the worst stalinist excesses. we are witnesses of a tragedy that we thought we will never see again and to which we said, ‘never again’. it is our moral duty to stand up to those seeking to suppress human freedom and dignity. we must ensure that these crimes are thoroughly documented, investigated and that those responsible are one day brought to justice under nuremberg-style trials.
mr president, in april, sipri reported that total global military expenditure increased in 2021 to reach usd 2.1 trillion – the highest global annual spend on record. a clear year—on—year drop in global arms sales in the post—cold war years has been reversed, principally by the us following september 9/11. it’s been a bonanza for the global arms industry ever since. we know that global warming and climate systems breakdown are resulting in mass displacement, food shortages, starvation and instability. in response, our leaders have ignored mitigating global warming and instead spend resources primarily on militarism, stoking conflicts, further threatening life on earth. it’s never been so obvious that there is no genuine democracy under monopoly capitalism. only the consolidation of power by the oligarchs, the barbarians. and these people are prepared to sacrifice the whole world in their wars to maintain western dominance. anti—war voices have rarely been so systematically attacked and yet have never been so more needed. the militarisation of europe is not serving the interests of its citizens and support for the data war machine in europe must end before it causes more destruction.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. artificial intelligence can be a great asset to our society and to our economy. today, we are already seeing ai being used in a wide range of everyday applications: for example, ai is used in music streaming platforms, ai is used in online language translators. but if you look at medicine, what advances are there in diagnostics through the use of artificial intelligence and big data. imaging data is analyzed, patterns of disease are detected earlier. there are also a variety of ways in which geodata can be used for climate protection. agriculture can use ai systems to work more efficiently in this area, and also in the household: the efficiency gains can be enormous. it's very, very important that we deal with the subject of "artificial intelligence". artificial intelligence is the future and has enormous potential. but where there are opportunities, there are usually also great risks. i always say, "blessing and cursing at the same time". for example, the topic of "social scoring" has been raised, the fear that ai systems are also used to carry out surveillance across the board, whether in the workplace or elsewhere. i think that we must therefore think carefully about how we will continue to regulate in this area. i think it's important for us as europeans that in everything we think about in terms of regulation now - and the proposals are on the table - digital technologies must always be at the service of the people. so we must put the human being at the centre of the question of how we regulate here. that is the most important thing to prevent discrimination and so on. i would like to thank my colleague, mr axel voss, for his excellent report and all the colleagues who have really been working on the various issues relating to the use of ai for many months in this special committee. i am also looking forward to the further discussions and debates on the specific regulatory proposals. i believe that we europeans can really put another stamp on this and create regulation in this digital environment that ultimately serves our citizens across europe.
i have to say, madam president, colleagues, lieutenant! what comes to mind when you hear the term "artificial intelligence"? robots taking over the world? a dystopia of orwellian proportions? or maybe an app that can diagnose skin cancer as accurately as experts? or the bluedot machine that predicted the covid-19 pandemic before the who did? artificial intelligence, like everything else, has at least two sides. if used responsibly, it can benefit all of us. but if misused, it can have disastrous consequences. that is why it is important that we in the eu lead the way in the development of artificial intelligence, because we have a unique approach to technological development. we're human-centric, and we insist that technology be reliable. this goes hand in hand with high levels of innovation, economic growth and greater competitiveness. but right now, the united states and china are leading the way, and if we don't catch up with them, they're going to set the standard for how artificial intelligence should be and how it should be used. it's not like that! the european union really needs to do this. the challenges facing artificial intelligence today must not be reduced to machine-gunning. they must not be used as an excuse to oppose progress and technological development. it is crucial that we make some demands on artificial intelligence. it shall be developed and used in a transparent, ethical and responsible manner. that is the european way. this is our chance to take back the driver's jersey. i think the aida report is very good because it strikes that balance. we are increasing investment in artificial intelligence, we are ensuring that european legislation is harmonised, and we are addressing the risks inherent in the use of artificial intelligence. i hope that in the future we will be able to use artificial intelligence more in europe. but that requires that it be human-centred and that we have legislation that ensures reliability in the way we use artificial intelligence. i therefore warmly welcome the report.
madam president, madam vice-president, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr axel voss, and the other rapporteurs, and also the chairman, who has played a key role in the development of this special committee. artificial intelligence has become a key driver for any economy that wants to be globally competitive and therefore of decisive strategic importance. its impact is economic and also social and, of course, geopolitical. the report we are discussing today therefore offers us an all-embracing view of the potential, the needs and the risks of artificial intelligence. it looks at issues central to its development, ethical principles and in particular the centrality of people, the need to increase our investment in r & d, cybersecurity, the ability to train and retain talent in europe or the future of employment. i shall refer specifically to two conditions which are sine qua non for its development: data and infrastructure. it is essential to eliminate legislative fragmentation in data and to promote equal access to data. safe data, reliable data, data that can be shared. in this sense, we have recently adopted the regulation on european data governance and in this sense we are now also starting to discuss the data act, which focuses on the internet of things and industrial data. but we also need to put an end to our digital infrastructure shortfalls in the european union. we are still dependent not only on third country processors, but also the cloud infrastructure market is dominated by five non-european providers. finally, the development of artificial intelligence in europe will have a major impact on the competitiveness of our economy and on the progress of society in all areas: education, health, transport, energy, etc. it is an opportunity which we must take advantage of and in this respect we have a huge responsibility in the european union.
madam president, the report of the aida special committee set out the direction of the eu’s approach to artificial intelligence. on an unparalleled scale, europe can establish its own leadership in the area of ai by creating a regulatory environment that gives both private and business users the most appropriate and complete rights and the widest possible protection. this report can be – and confidentially will be – used as a compass during the ai-related process ahead. faced with the rapid technological development of ai and a global policy context where more and more countries are investing heavily in ai, the eu must act to harness the many opportunities and address the challenges of ai in a future-proof manner. we have to set the appropriate standards – neither more nor less than is necessary to achieve our goals. we can pave the way to ethical technology worldwide and ensure that the eu remains competitive all along the way. on artificial intelligence, trust is not an option but a must. that is what human-centred artificial intelligence is all about. the primary purpose of the development and the use of algorithms, sensors and robots is not to produce technology or create scientific knowledge, but to support the quality of human life, the preservation of health and the organisation of social relations. ai should be used at the service of people, families and businesses, and not the other way around. i would like to thank mr axel voss for his excellent work and congratulate him on this very good report.
madam president, after a year and a half of work, the special committee on artificial intelligence has produced this document which is being examined today by the european parliament and which affects all the subjects and legal bases on which the european parliament legislates, with regard to industry, energy, trade and, of course, employment. this document must also respect the european standard of protection of fundamental rights, which happens to be the highest in the world, set not only in the data protection regulation but also in the directive for the agencies investigating crimes, the law enforcement agencies. that standard needs to be very much present in legislation, which should put the european union at the head of the reference in artificial intelligence regulation. when we talk about predictive policing, we need to know what it does to the presumption of innocence. when we talk about biometric recognition we have to know that it impacts on the principle of non-discrimination enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. and when we talk about content that is potentially so abusive to fundamental rights as that which concerns the handling of personal data, the european standard of data protection must be respected. so that is the commitment: to put the european union at the forefront of artificial intelligence legislation, but not to give in to the siren song of those who claim that this would be in contradiction with the maintenance of the european standard of protection of personal data and respect for fundamental rights. so congratulations to the rapporteurs. but above all, be alert to european legislation on artificial intelligence so that it maintains respect for the fundamental rights protected by the charter.
madam president, i think there’s no doubt about it that ai has the potential to positively transform the situation for humankind. we see this particularly in the fields of medicine and scientific research, but if maintained in the hands of private companies for private profit, then that societal gain is very much limited. these are the circumstances which give rise to the undermining of workers’ rights outlined by colleagues or the massive invasion of privacy which we have already experienced. i think we have to proceed with caution. the report, in fairness, i think, is very unhelpfully dramatic in its tone. i mean, to label the tech race as the fight for the survival of the eu and its battles against china, to be honest i think undermines it. human survival is not at risk in europe. calling ai the fifth element after water, earth, fire and air actually delegitimises the report a little bit, in my opinion. i think we could have put a lot more stronger message if we dealt more with the environmental impact of the uncontrolled and unlimited development of ai, which it has on raw materials, and which does impact on our fight for survival. i think one of the key weaknesses is the area of dealing with the threat of emerging great powers, so-called, such as china and russia, where there’s supposedly little oversight for the deployment of lethal offensive weaponry. the response of the report to that is to hand it over to nato, to align more closely with nato and to have nato execute counter strikes against those performing cyberattacks – so, if you like, an eye for an eye ... and suddenly the world is blind. in this report there should be a very strong call for no place for ai in autonomous weapons, a very strong guarding influence in terms of facial recognition, and so on. we live in a global world and these issues should be dealt with multilaterally in the global field, and not geo—politicised.
mr president, mr vice-president schinas, the dizzying event of putin's war against ukraine has changed everything from the local to the global. we read a lot these days and we hear a lot about the conduct of war on the military plane, therefore, on the war plane, but there are other wars of putin where a battle is fought in which russia is a superpower as in nuclear, mainly in disinformation and manipulation. because putin autocratically controls the public and private media, without counterbalance, and of course, he gives the battle of the story, as we saw in the commission we set up on russian manipulation and interference in democratic and electoral processes in the european union, which yielded some conclusive lessons: the need for legislation at the european level, the need to protect european citizens from fake news and deep fakes, also transparency in algorithms, effective and dissuasive sanctions, but above all, sufficient investment in cybersecurity that protects european values and security from attacks on its critical infrastructure and democratic processes.
mr president, i think if we are worried about cybersecurity, then it’s a mistake to think of it solely in terms of cyber defence. not all cybersecurity threats are state actors. some are purely engineering problems. some are problems with how our economy works. and we’re approaching everything as a defence issue. we may overlook this and undermine our actual cybersecurity. we have allowed a thriving private sector to enrich itself on cyber—surveillance technology. we’ve seen an offence of hacking software proliferating. this has led us to pegasus and so on. we’ve seen western intelligence agencies tasked with cyber defence who, instead of reporting bugs in software, stockpiled them and they are then released afterwards to criminal gangs. and this is a good example because vladimir putin is no more responsible for the hack on the irish health service than the irish prime minister is for the criminal actions of the kinahan crime gang. this was an attack on a weak system, with basic it security practices, no updating of systems, no updating of software. if we allowed the depletion of this vital infrastructure, devoid of public infrastructure, it would be open to public attack by criminal gangs and we must protect ourselves better.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i want to pay tribute to the transport workers who risk their lives to keep transport in ukraine running, without which millions of refugees would not have been able to flee putin’s aggression, without which goods and supplies would not be able to go to where they are needed most, without which countless more lives would have been lost. putin’s armed forces have cruelly targeted transport vehicles and infrastructure, with tragic loss of human life. almost one third of ukraine’s infrastructure has been damaged or destroyed, at a cost of eur 100 billion. bridges, highways, railways, airports and ports have been devastated. and that is why the european union must provide a new marshall plan to rebuild ukraine and boost renewables. we can help keep the ukrainian transport sector intact and operating, but we need to help it rebuild from the damage caused and maintain open links with the european union. these vital arteries are needed to help keep people alive. so i repeat: the european commission and member states need to come forward with a new marshall plan to rebuild ukraine, to boost renewables, to wean us off oil and gas, and specifically putin’s oil and gas, now and forever to protect ukraine and the planet. glory to ukraine.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the war in ukraine has put additional pressure on tourism and transport, which have been severely affected by the pandemic, and we need to find solutions. in my country, romania, which borders ukraine, there have been significant costs in these two areas. we've seen a decline in international tourism, with foreign tourists being scared of what's happening in the region. that is why we need new european support instruments and have asked for a dedicated budget line. as regards transport, romania had to take over from what was transported in ukraine. after the war, the freight traffic in the port of constanta increased by 8%, from 33 ships per day to 50. the romanian ministry of transport has allocated additional funds for these new needs in the transport area, but european support is needed. it's not just the merchandise that's important. we also need solutions for ukrainian seamen or carriers who have nowhere to go back to. we need more flexibility from the european commission and additional resources to ensure the transport flows needed by both ukraine and the eastern european countries on which the resilience and trade stability of the entire union depends.
mr president, we acknowledge the devastation of the horrible illegal war, but what i found shocking is that there’s not a single sentence in this motion designed to assist in ending it. instead, we see this transport sector subordinated to the war effort and nothing for the 11 million transport workers who are already reeling under the impact of covid. we see in this new eu war fever that the commission has selected 22 projects which will receive eur 339 million to ensure the transport sector is acceptable for military use, but no transparency around it whatsoever. i couldn’t even get answers to it. we see the celebration of more sanctions, but not a single word about how workers will be assisted in dealing with the impact of those sanctions: the platform workers dealing with the cost of food; the seafarers stuck on ships; the air crew seeing their working hours lengthened, and so on. i applaud the efforts of the workers who have tried to halt the action in the war. that’s a far better contribution than anything we’re doing.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, i can honestly say that it was an absolute pleasure to work with our incredibly capable rapporteur. he is inclusive, diligent and i have no hesitation in saying that the legislation has been improved under his stewardship and it has the stamp of the european parliament on it for sure, and we can take some pride in that. but for us, the legislation, unfortunately, has a number of shortcomings which won’t enable us to support it. it empowers europol to gather unlimited and uncontrolled amounts of data, including from private parties such as social media and content from hacked phones and computers. and as we all know, data is power. whoever holds it has control over our identities, our movements, our freedoms. and for one, opaque policing service to harvest large quantities of it in the name of enhanced security is, frankly, for us, terrifying. greater security can’t align with the degradation of our right to personal privacy or the violation of human rights. and europol intends to use this newly acquired big data to feed into research projects on ai and data driven policing. the parliament has been clear on this before that practices such as mass data harvesting, automated surveillance, predictive identification entails high risks for discriminatory policing, which would be targeted against the most vulnerable – migrants, refugees and so on who’ve already been at the receiving end. so, we have to be careful once we set something in motion, the technologies are here for good.
mr president, we know that criminal networks extend across borders. in ireland, in recent weeks, we have seen the effectiveness of cross—border cooperation in tackling international gangland crime and ensuring that no lawbreaker is untouchable. europe must take the same approach to cross—border crime. the security of our citizens should be our number one priority. i know from experience as minister for justice the tireless work done by europol and by our police forces, and i want to pay tribute to them. it is vital that they are fully supported by the political systems in their work. this is why today’s debate on europol is so important because europol exists to tackle cross—border crime in europe by working with national justice systems. we must ensure it has the resources and the technologies, as the commissioner has said, to do its job effectively. today’s proposal will make it easier for europol to process complex data, as they must, to initiate effective investigations, as they must, use information to tackle online terrorist content, and cooperate on cases more effectively with non—eu countries. i also welcome the creation of a fundamental rights officer within europol to ensure that data is not misused. it is very important that innocent people’s rights are protected and that citizens can have confidence in the administration of justice. critical for our democracies, it is not only important that people are safe, but that they feel safe. there should be no safe haven for lawbreakers.
mr president, the social and economic consequences for the eu of the russian war in ukraine are immense. ukraine, the eu and the global south are the biggest losers in this war. the impact on fuel, oil, energy and agriculture prices, the tightening supplies of food mean that many countries will be unable to pay their foreign debts. the euro has been undermined and we’re risking an eu-wide recession. but the us sees big opportunities. us treasury secretary janet yellen was crystal clear on this in her 13 april speech. she detailed how the us will use the imf to provide conditional assistance to struggling states friendly to us geostrategic interests, while threatening sanctions against any countries thinking of continuing to do any business with russia. pope francis has come out and apportioned blame on nato for the war and questioned the wisdom of supplying arms to ukraine. nato says they are ready to fuel the war for years. the us needs the war to reinforce their unipolar power, while ukraine, the people of europe and hundreds of millions in the global south will pay the price.
madam president, unfortunately, since 2015 china announced that it would end a legal practice of organ harvesting from political prisoners, we know and have evidence and indications that this heinous and intolerable violation of the right to life and human rights continues to exist. we must also be aware that to end impunity in china, we must end this crime which entails the demand by third countries. over a billion a year generates illicit trafficking in organs worldwide, especially, it has been said here, in the gulf region, where the demand for these organs has led china to create a halal organ market for uighurs and muslim minorities. we must therefore strengthen our human rights dialogue with china, which should not be an end in itself but should have concrete and specific objectives, it should be monitored and, in the event of no progress, we should be able to establish firm sanctions to put an end to this criminal and cruel trade in human organs.
madam president, most claims around organ harvesting in china originate from front groups run by the far—right anti—china cult, falun gong. a cult, let me remind you, that believes science was passed down by aliens to control humans and that donald trump was sent to destroy communism. the recent unscientific paper claiming to expose deaths by organ extraction in china between 1980 and 2015, was funded by google, the australian government and a washington dc—based right—wing lobby group, the victims of communism memorial foundation – a group founded by ukrainian nationalists and nazi german collaborators. the same fanatics were also behind the uyghur genocide claims that we have yet to see any evidence of. even the w.h.o. asserts that china is engaging in best practices in this area. surely urgencies like this don’t bring any credit on this institution. it’s plain racism and is feeding into the new cold war.
member of the commission. – madam president, human rights is one of the most divisive issues in eu—china relations. let me just refer to the sanctions imposed under the eu global human rights sanction regime last year, and china’s countermeasures targeting members of this parliament, and to our efforts, so far in vain, to hold an eu—china human rights dialogue, which has not met since april 2019. the eu continues, nevertheless, to seize every opportunity, including at the highest political level, to raise its serious concerns about the human rights situation in china. doing so is becoming even more important, as multiple reports continue to provide very credible evidence of organ harvesting in china. the eu condemns in the strongest possible terms the criminal, inhuman and unethical practice of forced organ harvesting, often from persons belonging to ethnic, linguistic or religious minorities and other persons in vulnerable situations. respect for human rights is not an option, but a requirement in all areas, including in the challenging medical and ethical area of organ donation and transplantation. we have repeatedly expressed our concerns over the secrecy that surrounds both death penalty and organ transplant statistics in china. we have highlighted numerous disturbing reports on continuing organ harvesting from executed prisoners. looking ahead, the human rights situation in china will continue to be a key part of eu action in multilateral fora, notably the united nations human rights council and the general assembly’s third committee. in our bilateral diplomacy, we will continue to call on china to operate in compliance with its international human rights obligations. so let me assure you that in pursuing our relations with china we will not be silent nor compromise on human rights.
author. – madam president, firstly, i’d like to thank my fellow authors for the excellent cooperation in framing this resolution. ahead of the commune elections in june and next year’s national elections in cambodia, the human rights situation has deteriorated, with the government carrying out an intensified crackdown on the political opposition, independent media and civil society under the guise of covid—19 measures. cambodian dictator hun sen, who has maintained his tight grip on power for 37 years, continues his crackdown on opposition figures, squashing any dissent. the government is harassing opposition parties aiming to run in the upcoming elections, and the authorities have stepped up online surveillance laws that threaten free expression and the right to privacy. i strongly condemn the intimidation and the continued oppression of the cambodia national rescue party leaders and members, whom we met last week. as cambodia’s main opposition party, the cambodia national rescue party was arbitrarily dissolved in 2017. now, a relatively old party founded in 1998, the candlelight party, is gaining momentum as an opposition. it must not suffer the same fate as the cnrp. i strongly condemn the intimidation of the candlelight party candidates, now the only credible party of opposition, which is considered as legal under the repressive laws currently in place. it is imperative that the candlelight party is not dissolved under such ludicrous terms as the cnrp. of course, we must not focus only on the upcoming local elections, but also look ahead to next year’s legislative elections. at the european union we need to do our utmost to support democrats all over the world. i call for the immediate release of all political prisoners, not only politicians, but also journalists, and for the rehabilitation of politicians who have been banned from holding public office. i call on the cambodian authorities to restore freedom of expression and the media and also tell them and remind them strongly that we will be watching very closely the conduct of the upcoming elections.
author. – madam president, the dictator of cambodia has been nearly 37 years in power, and almost uninterrupted. what we see is a total crackdown of political opposition, imprisoning of political opposition leaders, many murders of trade unionists, criminalisation of environmental activists who defend land and national resources in the country. the situation should quickly improve. if not, then the european union should consider new measures to influence the situation. this is why the european parliament will call for targeted sanctions, and urges the council to adopt restrictive measures, which include travel bans and asset freezes against those who are complicit and in charge of these very severe restrictions and human rights violations. the european union, the commission partially suspended the everything but arms benefits (eba) last year, and it is not excluded that the commission should consider a complete suspension of those trade benefits. i would like very much to emphasise that any european companies dealing with cambodia, doing business there, should do their due diligence with utmost care because the situation is extremely difficult, and the risks of conducting business in that country are extremely big for being complicit in the human rights violations, but also for the reputation of companies.
for the ppe group. madam president, allow me to also support the motion for a resolution which our colleagues have prepared. i think we cannot remain passive as the situation in cambodia escalates and deteriorates. opposition has always been suppressed there, that's the unfortunate reality. it is a country where the current ruler has been in power for over 37 years, but in recent months the situation has become even more dramatic as leading opposition figures are being sentenced in staged trials. cambodia is a beautiful country, it's a country that wants to work with europe. it has ties not only to the european union, but also to my country, as the king of cambodia studied in what was then czechoslovakia. and i am very sorry that the situation is unfortunately becoming so complicated, but we cannot turn a blind eye to this and we need to make sure that this resolution, and especially the commission's attitude towards this country, takes a turn that if the situation does not improve, it will have repercussions on mutual relations.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, cambodia, as the current chair of asean, has recently called on the leaders of myanmar’s military junta to let a special southeast asian envoy meet with ousted leader aung san suu kyi in an effort to promote peace in the region. against this background, i’m wondering why the cambodian prime minister is not applying the same logic of fairness to his own country’s political situation. indeed, under the false pretext of shielding the population from the covid-19 pandemic, the cambodian government has been drastically limiting civil society and human rights, from harassing political opposition and criminalising free speech to forbidding peaceful assembly throughout the country. in this context, i call on the cambodian authorities to take action to restore political freedoms in the country and to work towards strengthening democracy and the respect of fundamental freedoms.
madam president, a year ago, i stood at this very same spot and noted with regret that a strong european union response to the political prosecution and human rights violations in cambodia was long overdue. i called for an immediate review of our relations with cambodia. if you don’t trust me, ask the cambodian opposition representatives seated in this hall and observing our discussion. ask those who feel with their own lives the real business line of the cambodian regime. can representatives of the council, the commission and the eu delegation to cambodia present the results of their work to this parliament? to what extent have the recommendations made in our previous resolutions been implemented? i do not see any improvement in the human rights situation in cambodia. let’s be clear: the opposition parties will not participate on an equal footing in the communal elections in june, the number of political prisoners will only increase, and the voice of the cambodian people will not be taken into account. the eu must use all its tools at its disposal, such as preferential trade agreements and the eu magnitsky act, to send a clear message to the ruling cambodian so—called people’s party. our solidarity and support is for the cambodian people and should be directed accordingly.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the parliament, the european union has always maintained a clear stance on the crackdown against the opposition in cambodia. since the dissolution of the main opposition party, the cambodia national rescue party, we have worked with all relevant stakeholders, including politicians, civil society and the authorities, to encourage the reopening of the country’s political and civil space. due to the lack of progress, despite our enhanced engagement, the european commission decided in 2020 to withdraw some tariff preferences granted to cambodia under the everything but arms arrangement. we have continued to raise our voice against the shrinking of the democratic space, including at the human rights council, where the eu has also co—sponsored resolutions on this issue. the european union has made clear that the cambodian authorities must respect the rule of law and due process. at the end of 2021, several human rights defenders and activists were released from prison under court supervision, and some new opposition parties have been allowed to register for the local elections next month. the eu has never stopped engaging with the government to discuss the political and economic aspects of our bilateral relations, asean and regional issues. in march, we held the first joint committee after the withdrawal of eba preferences. the eu confirmed its openness to re—engage in cambodia and to discuss the eba regime, if there is a substantial improvement on the issues of concern. in view of the upcoming elections, cambodia should take immediate action to reopen the political space in the country and allow the participation of a credible opposition. in particular, cambodia should provide a resolution of the judicial case against kem sokha while he continues to be denied justice and political rights. the eu reiterates its call on the cambodian authorities to take all measures to ensure democratic elections and initiate a process of national reconciliation through inclusive dialogue. we strongly believe that democratic inclusion and dialogue, including with civil society, is key to lasting peace and stability.
in writing. during this and the previous european parliament's term of office, we have addressed the situation in cambodia seven times so far in the context of the debate on human rights emergencies. this is the eighth. the reasons are usually the same: persecution of the opposition, suppression of the media, restrictions on civil rights and ngos. we are now approaching the local government elections scheduled for june 5 this year, and then the national elections in 2023. in the last month, many members of opposition groups who were supposed to run for the opposition party have been arrested. the accusations were heard by at least 150 people, some of whom were forced to flee abroad. kem sokha, leader of the dissolved cnrp, has been in prison since 2017 on charges of treason. we should condemn in the strongest possible terms the actions of the cambodian authorities although judging by the number of resolutions adopted so far, it seems that words alone are not enough. even the eu's withdrawal of part of its tariff preferences for cambodia in february 2020 under the everything but arms (eba) initiative was not a strong enough signal for change. i would therefore like to call on the external action service and the commission to draw up a list of those responsible for the persecution of opposition members and the violation of their fundamental rights and to consider the imposition of individual sanctions by the eu on those persons.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, this debate is particularly timely given the challenges that west africa, which i visited last month, is currently facing. several countries in the region are characterised by structural fragility and political instability, as illustrated by the coups d’état that have occurred in recent years – mali, guinea, burkina faso – as well as the attempted coups in guinea bissau and niger. meanwhile, the terrorist threat is constantly growing in the central sahel, the lake chad region, and even now more and more in some coastal countries in africa. as president moussa faki recently said, the scourge of terrorism on the african continent has reached an unprecedented scale. this instability has many causes, at the forefront of which are terrorist armed groups and their supporters, but also organised crime and trafficking. however, the insecurity is also based, particularly in certain regions, on the lack of governance, lack of development or even prospects for the very young population. the sahel is and remains a priority for the european union, as we recalled at the last foreign affairs council. i would like to reaffirm our will to support the people of these countries, who are facing political instability, insecurity, and a catastrophic humanitarian situation and growing food insecurity, also due to the war in ukraine. in early april we co-organised with commissioner lenarčič, a pledging conference to address the rising food insecurity. team europe pledged close to eur 1 billion. however, we can only work with those who want to work with us, by being more demanding on the need for enhanced political engagement and accountability. in particular, when we see the emergence of actors in the field of security who don’t comply with any of our principles. and that is why we have recently taken decisions to restructure our defence and security missions in mali to align with our objectives and values. but let me be clear: we will not abandon mali or the sahel. that was my main message in niger, but also in cote d’ivoire and ghana, who are impacted by the spillover of security threats. we will remain engaged, in line with our integrated strategy for the sahel, around five pillars: political dialogue, security and stabilisation, development assistance, international and regional coordination, and strategy communication. we are also ready to strengthen our support to the countries of the gulf of guinea, cote d’ivoire, ghana, togo and benin, or senegal in particular. in all these countries, the eu has been active for many years. we will build upon that experience and we will work with existing regional frameworks, such as the accra initiative and ecowas. the response must go well beyond the fight against terrorism, namely through an integrated approach on border areas. countering transnational organised crime, strengthening the presence of the state, implementing the coordinated maritime presence in the gulf of guinea and working with local communities to contain the rise of radicalisation will all be important. peace will not be won by arms alone. as i have always said, peace and development are two sides of the same coin. our military and security commitments must go hand in hand with a civil and political awakening and with finding ways to involve the vibrant sahelian youth.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear commissioner, well, yes, this is a timely debate, but for quite a while now, i would say. your description, your analysis, i have nothing to criticise about, it’s correct – but timely, as i said. i have been here for quite a while in this parliament, dealing also with development issues. i recall, for instance, a 2011 sahel strategy that was written by the commission. so we have had it already more than ten years ago. the structural deficits, the fragility of states, political instability and – i would go so far as to say – the lack of statehood, perhaps, behind the shield of the capital city in many countries, that is indeed a situation that we have been faced with for quite a while. so, i dare to doubt when you say yes, the sahel remains a priority. it should have been allegedly so for quite long. so i support all pillars that you have enumerated: political dialogue, security stabilisation, development assistance, international regional cooperation – all that. i wonder, in the current very urgent situation, when it is about the food shortage, when we address it and you referred to this pledging conference, which is welcome: are we clear enough to the countries concerned whose fault it is, that it is russia that is, in the current circumstances, the one that is to be blamed. are we making it clear that anybody, certainly mali, that accepts wagner or other troops of this kind, adds to the plight of their own people? and are we conditioning sufficiently our support to those who behave in a way that they can deliver to their people and that they can actually, in a proper way, accept and deal with the support that we are giving. i hope that that is the case and that we are in a position really to differentiate between those who deliver well and those who really do the opposite. that contributes to stability.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i commend the commissioner’s very accurate analysis of this situation. unfortunately, since the announcement of the integrated eu—africa strategy, all characteristics that are there and all pillars show even the deterioration of the situation, and we have to surely step up our efforts in all areas using all instruments available in order to face this challenge. we can name all areas, but let me focus on one issue. in order to maintain the possibility to remain a global player, we have to increase efforts to combat the possibility of further hunger. in the region, we have over 20 million people in need of humanitarian assistance. it gives further leverage to players like russia, in particular after the aggression on ukraine, with providing stolen grain to africa, already that we know from our ukrainian sources, and to china. that gives both players an additional hand in their political operation in the multilateral arena. in particular, in the un that was visible in important voting in terms of africa. so we need a further step—up of our actions vis—à—vis africa.
madam president, the situation in the sahel is very worrying. the commissioner said that the country was suffering from serious structural imbalances: political instability and democratic setbacks in recent months, a precarious economic situation in the context of a food crisis, vast territories lacking the most basic state structures, the rise of various terrorist groups, explosive population growth... in recent times, only mauritania has been spared the deep-seated governmental turmoil that has shaken the sahel countries with the return of military junta. the situation in mali is very worrying in this respect. i understand that in the present circumstances, including the presence of russia and the wagner group, some of our activities in the field of security and defence have had to be suspended. but the reassessment of our presence in mali must be accompanied by pragmatism and flexibility. we cannot completely abandon this key country and create a vacuum that would be filled by other actors, such as russia. it is also important to continue to help the g5 sahel and to continue to coordinate with ecowas. the expansion of instability and jihadism to the south and west, affecting the countries of the gulf of guinea, is of great concern. in addition, many illegal traffic and piracy cross its waters. the latter, fortunately, is declining thanks to the european union's coordinated maritime presence and its deterrent effect. we must continue to pay attention in a holistic way to the countries bordering the gulf of guinea, which must be more involved in the fight against piracy. in this respect, greater involvement of nigeria, a key country in the region, is needed. i also welcome the appointment of a european union senior coordinator for maritime safety in the gulf of guinea. africa is a very relevant neighbouring continent for the union. yesterday, in this very house, prime minister draghi told us that the war in ukraine and the energy crisis are moving the european union's strategic axis southwards, towards africa. within this vast continent, the sahel and the gulf of guinea countries are very important countries and very close to the european union. we can't leave them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before i turn to the destabilisation of the sahel, i would like to pay tribute to the 58 french soldiers who died in the line of duty and to express my thoughts to their families. as a former foreign service officer, i assure them of my full solidarity. i also want to remind you that it was the outbreak of the war in libya and the coup d'état in côte d'ivoire in 2011 by nicolas sarkozy that mainly disorganized the region. the destruction of libya spread unrest throughout the sahel, unrest exploited by islamists, reinforced by the emergence of daesh in syria and threatening to sweep across central africa and the gulf of guinea. however, there was a wall that maintained stability and security in the area. that wall was france. france intervened in 2013 at the request of mali, fighting islamists and preventing the sahel from collapsing. it acted almost alone, as the european union, including angela merkel's germany, stubbornly refused to support it, with only a few national contingents joining the takuba force. it has had no european strategic and diplomatic support and has stood alone in defence of the stability and democracy which the european union praises in words but ignores in deeds, both inside and outside europe. today, after the central african republic, france must leave mali, which yesterday announced that it was breaking all its defence agreements with our country. it is therefore a diplomatic humiliation that ends this mission, where french action has proved effective, but where france has been too often isolated. it is time for france to regain its diplomatic place in this part of the world where its influence has been totally extinguished.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think the migration crisis since 2015 has shown us that we can't be indifferent to what happens in other parts of the world, that it affects us directly. i think the pandemic is showing us that the world is a village, where we are all directly dependent on each other. yes, and the war against ukraine shows us that freedom and peace, if we do not defend them, will be attacked and destroyed. and all of this should give us pause when we think of west africa and the sahel, because the region - and mali in particular - is marked by incredible tension and people are suffering incredibly. i am critical of our gradual withdrawal from our eu mission in mali. i understand the reasons. i understand that we're not as welcome as we used to be on the government side. i understand that the wagner group - which is in fact a kremlin group, which therefore threatens freedom and peace in this world - is also pushing us away. but that's why i ask the question: is it wise to let ourselves be pushed around like this? the lessons of the three crises mentioned and, indeed, of much, much earlier developments, as well as reason and insight into the prospects for the future, should not lead us to be more involved and present in the sense of democracy, the rule of law, human dignity and the rights to freedom? that's something to consider. i have great respect for the 72 austrian soldiers who are there, and for the approximately 1000 soldiers from 22 member states who are there to provide training. if there is a famine in the autumn, in the winter, as is forecast, then this region will be particularly affected and our presence will be particularly important.
mr president, commissioner, yesterday mali announced that it was breaking off its defence and military cooperation agreements with france and the european union. this is a very worrying sign, in a context where the succession of coups d'état between 2000 and 2022 in chad, guinea, burkina faso, twice in mali, reflects a growing crisis of democracy and the legitimacy of the political systems of the region. continued dialogue is crucial for a swift return to civilian rule and ensuring the organisation of transparent and inclusive elections. we must ensure access to humanitarian aid and the right of the citizens of the region to live in peace and to have their human rights respected within the framework of the rule of law, and we cannot fail to denounce, on the one hand, the increasing presence of various terrorist groups in the region and, on the other hand, the presence of the wagner group, knowing that the russian ministry of defence is involved in the financing, recruitment, training and protection of its agents. the security, stability and prosperity of the region is a prerequisite for global security, while respecting international law. the european union must work with the african union, ecowas and the countries of the region in this regard, respecting the principles and values of multilateral cooperation.
mr president, we are currently witnessing a deterioration in our relations with many african partners. mali seems more inclined to cooperate with forces close to the russian invader in ukraine. if some people are recommending that we should not break off relations with countries which have been important partners in the past, we must be aware that the way in which the european union is being humiliated cannot remain untouched in our future relations with certain sahel states. the european union's strategy, at least as we had hoped, was to become a facilitator in our cooperation with third countries, a better instrument. however, it is not likely to produce satisfactory results unless there is real political will, particularly on the part of mali. mali and many others do not have or no longer have this will, and this should be of the utmost concern to us. i therefore support those who, in this debate, propose to rethink our strategy for the sahel region.
mr president, madam commissioner, despite the ingratitude of the malian junta towards the 59 french soldiers who fell in the sahel, our total withdrawal from that region is not conceivable. on the one hand, because other actors soon replaced the westerners. turkey is already showing its military and diplomatic presence, if not playing the religious card. secondly, because any advance by islamist terrorists would inevitably affect europe in terms of security and migration, this is all the more true at a time when the conflict in ukraine raises the spectre of famine in an africa dependent on its wheat imports. the day after the end of operation barkhane and its european counterpart, takuba, the deterioration of the balance of forces on the ground is evident. this is evidenced by the chilling admission by the nigerian president in december that the jihadists are superior to some african national armies. the long-promised advance of terrorism towards the gulf of guinea has now been confirmed. with its new facility for peace, it is to be hoped that the european union will finally be able to approach military cooperation with africa in a realistic and lucid manner. at the same time, europeans are likely to remain the main providers of development aid. but our considerable commitment must finally be paid back: it is intolerable that the sacrifice of french soldiers is met by an obsessive hatred of our country.
mr president, madam commissioner, in recent years, the security and humanitarian situation in the sahel and western africa has declined sharply. terrorist groups have increased their presence. democratic principles are being further undermined. people are suffering from food insecurity and inter—community violence, and over land and resources, is rising. the severity of the situation was highlighted by the departure of french troops two months ago. after years of active involvement to restore stability in the region, the relations between paris and the authorities in mali reached its deepest point. the eu has also announced that it will halt military training missions in mali. these developments are extremely worrisome. security in europe and africa are closely interlinked. it is of utmost importance for us to remain active on the ground and to help our partners to foster institution building and deliver on a good governance. therefore, i welcome the reaffirmed commitment of the council for a solid and long—term partnership between the eu and the sahel. together with our partners such as the g5, the african union and ecowas, the european union has the power to make a difference in the region, to protect and defend democracy and stability, and to take significant steps towards sustainable peace, because that’s our security as well.
mr president, commissioner, the g5 sahel, as you said, mauritania, burkina faso, mali, chad, niger, but to which we can add nigeria or côte d'ivoire or other countries, have of course common realities but also their specificities. in my opinion, it is probably not enough to sum up the policy we must pursue in the sahel in terms of the fight against jihadism. and as we have seen, our nine-year presence in the region has shown its limits in terms of fighting jihadism. the common realities of these countries are important and require common responses. for example, the sahel regions are affected by climate change and severe droughts which increase pressure on resources - less land for farmers, less pastures for herders, less water for everyone - all of which leads to inter-communal conflicts. if they are not handled properly, they lead to intercommunal massacres, thanks also to the weapons that have arrived, especially from libya. better management of these phenomena also leads to a reduction in the violence that is currently taking place in the region. i believe that it is through development and your action, madam commissioner, that we can solve the problem of the sahel.
mr president, commissioner, if you are still wondering about the relevance of this parliament debating instability and insecurity in the sahel and west africa, you will only need to listen to the corollary arguments on this point of our agenda. because the motivation is inescapable: africa is experiencing a population explosion unprecedented in human history. it has doubled its population in the last 50 years and will double again in the next 30. and, particularly in the sahel and west africa, the violence, the food crisis and the deaths caused in their fight against jihadism by the criminal mercenaries of the wagner group sponsored by putin result in a constant flow of human beings fleeing and who, in their desperation, give themselves up to illicit trafficking, leading to outermost regions like the canary islands, that is, the european union. it is essential that the european union understands that this is the scale of the response and that only the european union can respond with maritime rescue, with solidarity, with shared responsibility. if we have done so in ukraine, with the intelligence of solidarity, it is essential that europe should do so in the sahel and in west africa.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is certainly a truism that politics is not black and white. there are many shades of gray, and i've seen shades of gray. but we have to consider everything. this is why it is of course important that we look more closely at mali and the sahel and not jump to conclusions, even though the engagement has been going on for some time and - as the commissioner has indicated - there is a very high level of complexity in this region. but abandoning european involvement is certainly not the solution. and i say this at a time when the global security architecture is being redefined. the absence of europe would certainly be a very, very wrong signal. the sahel is on our doorstep, and the stability of the sahel has direct implications for europe. we must be aware of this, and that is why we must also take account of the very specific conditions in the sahel. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that commitment is definitely worth continuing.
mr president, the foundation of the situation in sahel is european colonialism. in sahel, this primarily means french colonialism. today, the principle aggravating feature is financial imperialism – the economic straightjacket of the french colonial franc, sanctions and the structural economic violence of the imf and other western development banks. the other aggravating feature is the endless militarisation of the region. hillary clinton’s emails showed us that france wanted gaddafi gone when they saw him as a threat to the colonial franc. and in the process of bombing libya back to the stone age, nato-empowered military extremist forces have gone on to contribute to the problem we’re discussing here today. the eu’s short-sighted response has been to go to war all over the sahel and to set up dubious training missions whose graduates keep overthrowing civilian governments and committing more war crimes than the supposed enemy. until france gives up leeching from its former colonies, until the sahel stands together against the imperialists, the security situation will continue to deteriorate.
mr president, dear commissioner, from regulatory instruments to state aid, from data to risk, this report presents a comprehensive overview of the state of competition policy in the eu today. the real focus, of course, in the report is about small businesses and jobs, ensuring that they can grow, thrive and be competitive in our globalised economy. this report is backing small business, and rightly so. small businesses are the lifeblood of our economies. in ireland, small businesses employ over half a million people and indirectly support thousands more jobs on top of that. they are at the heart of our communities. they sustain families. they ensure the indigenous economies can thrive. it has been a tough few years for business and entrepreneurs. covid-19 caused much hardship. many were forced to suspend trading. many closed their doors altogether. but the eu also supported so many to continue and to thrive. the russian invasion of ukraine has had severe economic impacts, disrupting supply chains and fuelling inflation. the climate emergency, of course, calls on businesses to adapt and to change. i am pleased that this report recognises those challenges and calls on the commission and member states to make sure that appropriate supports are in place where needed. it recognises that flexibility is required to keep our business environment competitive and dynamic and to protect jobs. it emphasises, of course, the importance of the digital and green transition process and the kind of supports that will be needed for our businesses to manage that. as a representative from an outward-looking, dynamic and business-friendly city, i will always back small and medium businesses, and i am glad that the eu will continue to do so as well. it is so important that the commission is there for business when needed. but, of course, we have to recognise the huge innovation that comes from our entrepreneurs. the huge potential for europe. and we have to try and keep innovation in europe and support our entrepreneurs and startups.
mr president, competition is the heartbeat of the european single market and competition, i think, showed that we have a dynamic economy that was able to go through the most difficult periods in terms of the financial crisis, the pandemic and now the ukrainian war. of course, it also shows that we must have flexibility, commissioner, in our policies around competition. and certainly the temporary crisis framework and the suspension of the state-aid rules was a significant issue to ensure that member states could support entities in the countries that were most under pressure. there are two significant groups that are going to find the challenge in the next number of months and years very difficult. those are people on low and middle incomes because of the huge inflationary pressures, and also small and medium-sized businesses. so i would urge that when we are unwinding any of the policies around the temporary crisis framework, that we do take into account the vulnerability of many small and medium-sized businesses, bearing in mind they are also the heartbeat of many economies across the european union. but i do commend the commission on what it did over the last number of years in terms of addressing the emergency that small and medium-sized businesses face.
mr president, i very much welcome the temporary protection directive that was introduced because of the unfolding humanitarian crisis in ukraine, which allowed ukrainian citizens to come into the european union and for the european union to do what it’s good at in terms of supporting them initially and then trying to find accommodation and providing other services. but we do have a major problem with regard to frontex and also our basic administration in terms of how we deal with people who come into the european union. (the president cut off the speaker)
(start of speech off mic) mr president, i voted in favour of the discharge earlier today. however, i want to raise a few concerns with regard to ireland. we have a common fisheries policy, but that is about the end of it in terms of being common, because many people in ireland have major concerns, not only about how we allocate quota, how we use quota, how we burden-share, how we support coastal communities. there is no doubt that since brexit, the irish fishing industry has been placed at a huge disadvantage because of the cuts of quota. so, in the context of the common fisheries review, we have to accept that ireland has to be supported. there has to be additional burden-sharing. and on top of that, with regard to the common fisheries policy, we have to also police based on a common set of rules. our national control authorities must operate and must enforce on a level playing pitch across the entire union. we can’t have à la carte. so i call for a review of national control authorities, how they implement the rules and how they police. we do not want to make criminals out of fishing and coastal communities. we want to support them. and that is not what we are doing at the moment, in many instances.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president. commissioner, thank you for your work and for those initiatives. they are appreciated and very important. colleagues, the brutality of this war has shocked us all. a thousand people in the basement of a steel plant in mariupol feeling the net tightening around them as russian forces advance. a thousand people in mass graves across the suburbs of kyiv, and millions of people with the scars that will be carried with them and their families for generations. some of the worst atrocities in this barbaric war have been carried out targeting women. perhaps the gravest of them all – rape and sexual violence – as a weapon of war. we all know the brutality. a woman gang-raped to death in front of her children. children, both boys and girls, brutally raped while a screaming mother is forced to look on. a pregnant 14-year-old, who decides to keep the child because the brutality of the attack against her means she is unlikely to have children again. unimaginable horrors. when we say ‘never again’, i have to ask, do we truly mean it? i think many people feel helpless, yet emboldened to take whatever action can be taken to stop these horrendous crimes against women. this cannot continue to happen. every russian soldier who commits rape in ukraine must end up in the hague at the international criminal court, and justice must be seen to be done. there can be no impunity for those who commit rape in the name of war. in the meantime, as the commissioner has said, we must offer the very best support to victims of sexual violence, including healthcare, both physical and mental. we know that, for example, our ngos across europe are uniquely skilled to provide the kind of specialist help that many of these women need. i’ve seen it in rape crisis centres in dublin, which worked in bosnia after the war. we must fund these organisations so they can do this work. women are victims of this war, as are the people of ukraine as a whole and its diaspora around the world. yes, we applaud, as the commissioner has done, the strength of ukrainian women and we stand with them. slava ukraini!
madam president, during the first months of the russian invasion of ukraine, the polish government opened its borders to two million ukrainian refugees. for this generosity and openness, they should be commended. yet 100 kilometres to the north, the same government is building a wall made of steel, concrete and razor wire, 186 kilometres long, more than five metres high, all to stop refugees from crossing the polish border with belarus. these people are also fleeing war zones – from syria, afghanistan, iraq, yemen, ethiopia. what’s the difference between these and the tens of thousands of ukrainians coming to poland every day? according to the polish government, these refugees pose a threat to national and eu security. more than 20 of them have died of cold, starvation or whatever, in this polish forest. instead of helping these people, president van der leyen wants to send them back to the war zones from which they have fled. where’s our care about human rights when it comes to other nationalities? what’s wrong with us?
madam president, commissioner, it is hard to find a more ridiculous debate in this situation. a situation where europe is in a war, provoked by the kremlin, an invasion provoked by the kremlin. at the same time, we are seeing a hybrid operation, run by both the kremlin and lukashenko, where people are being smuggled, forcibly brought into belarus and then thrown into europe. and at this moment, when there should be a unification and protection of the european interest, of all of you, there is a conversation here about protecting the interests of the hippo, the green eagle, various grasshoppers and the like, whose rights have been violated. there are many uses of the term "useful idiot" throughout history. please check what it means and who used it and why they used it. i am very sorry to hear putin's propaganda in this room directed against poland's efforts to protect european citizens. poland, which is now hosting tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of refugees, which is really helping. and you condemn her because you support the kremlin's propaganda. it couldn't be more schizophrenic. or maybe you do. come on, surprise us with a surprise. obviously, you can think of more. you should be thanking poland, spain, bulgaria, all those who guard the external borders, and not trying to deal with putin's propaganda.
madam president, i think it’s absolutely crazy that we now have the racism of the polish government being the responsibility of the kremlin. for god’s sake, there is something very sick at the heart of the european union, where we constantly talk about values and we correctly have outrage at the construction of a border wall and the damage that this will do to nature and the forest in that area, but what greater damage it will do to the integrity of the european union that claims to stand for international law, for the right to asylum and to be absolutely against racism. because this wall is just a physical manifestation of the racism that has existed in the polish government’s policies towards migrants, and this is an insult to the wonderful polish people, who have extended their hearts with generosity to ukrainian refugees. some of those very same people who drove night and day to bring ukrainians into poland were penalised by the polish government for having the audacity to give humanitarian aid to a family of afghans who are freezing and starving in the forest. they rescued them with their transport and they were brought to court for that. what disgusting racism. the commission has to act.
the next item is the explanations of votes.
a uachtaráin, i voted for this report as it condemns russia’s unprovoked and unjustified aggression against ukraine and welcomes the extraordinary measures that the eu is putting in place to help the ukrainian people. it further supports measures directed at ngos and businesses helping refugees flee to the union from countries affected by war. the report highlights the development of an effective system of well-adjusted and complementing regulatory and enforcement instruments to facilitate the digital and green transition and continue to apply rigorously, and impartially enforce, competition policy. the report also calls on the commission to closely monitor the flexibility of the eu state aid framework to enable member states to provide support to the companies and sectors most severely affected by the ongoing russian military aggression against ukraine. i welcome the report and i compliment the rapporteur and the shadows.
madam president, i voted with 'abstention' on this report for a very simple reason. this report should report on the european commission's activities in parliament with regard to competition in the period 2021-2026. we cannot support a report that does not say and show all the bad decisions taken by the european commission against competition in the european union, and against the free market, and against free enterprise. i remind you that this chamber, against the rules of the european union, against the idea of a free market, against the idea of free competition, has imposed the harmful and destructive mobility package, which has caused and continues to cause serious damage to the transport sector in all the peripheral countries: bulgaria, romania, greece, the baltic republics, spain, italy, etc. i remind you that the committee, which has left and not heard the questions, has not yet answered the question: are there any countries in the european union that have an agreement with russia to buy their gas in rubles? what kind of competition are we talking about here? for this reason, i voted with an abstention.
madam president, i voted against this motion because stability, security and democracy in west africa and the sahel will never be achieved by military efforts, even less so when it’s motivated by european – and especially french – interests. last year, it was estimated that france is spending eur 1 billion every year, but actually the true figure is probably eur 2 billion. four times the average amount on humanitarian aid is being spent on militarism. security spending accounts for one fifth of its national budget, often to the detriment of social projects. the outcome of that was that, in 2020, we had the deadliest year for civilians: nearly two and a half thousand deaths in burkina faso, mali, niger and, across the three countries, more civilians and suspects were killed by the military, which is supposed to protect them, than by the jihadist groups they are supposed to be fighting. we need to urgently change tack in this area.
madam speaker, i voted categorically, convincingly and without any doubt against this resolution. this resolution is unwieldy, clumsy, unnecessary and i would even call it stupid at a time like this. poland is currently the country that provides the greatest assistance to ukraine in the war against the occupier and against the invader on its territory. not just by taking in hundreds of thousands of refugees, but by providing humanitarian and military aid. and at this very moment, when it should really be defending europe, the european way of life and what you call european values, a resolution comes forward that wants to punish and fine poland because someone here was unhappy with the results of the elections in poland, with the results that the polish people and the polish nation have chosen to make in free elections. i remind you again that the elections in hungary and poland were free. you all work against orban, and orban punishes you with a huge result. all of you, all the political forces here are working against this and you've seen the result. and now the european parliament in its suicidal madness votes a resolution against those who protect europe. i don't know what you call it, but it's not normal, it's not right.
madam president, there’s no doubt about it, the conditionality mechanism is an important tool, and it could be effective in pressurising member states to rectify any misuse of funds, corruption or other rule of law issues. in the cases of poland and hungary, though, it’s too little, too late. and, on the other side, those countries have a point that they are being singled out for special treatment when whole numbers of other member states flagrantly violate the rule of law and we say nothing. we say nothing about the situation in greece, where humanitarian aid workers and migrants are criminalised. we say nothing about the fact that four police officers yesterday were acquitted in greece of the brutal death of an lgbt activist, zak kostopoulos, who was brutally beaten to death in 2018. those people walked free. endemic homophobia in greece, islamophobia in france, problems against the catalans in spain, and we say nothing. rule of law conditionality should apply to all member states.
madam president, poland and hungary, of course, have some massive rule of law problems. it’s very easy to throw rocks at poland and hungary, but people who live in glass houses shouldn’t throw rocks. rule of law problems proliferate all over the eu, and hypocrisy is widespread. you lecture certain countries about human rights and the rule of law when it suits the geopolitical agenda. but where was the outcry when the protesters in barcelona – the catalans – were being brutally suppressed by spanish police and the government? where’s the outrage over the treatment of the yellow vests in paris? we’ve been to the court twice in lithuania, where algirdas paleckis is facing several years in prison. he is accused of being a russian spy, and the only evidence that they’re supposed to have against him, even the judges can’t see it! so no evidence has been presented against him because they’re saying it’s a state secret. mother of god, is this the rule of law of a member state of the european union? the algirdas paleckis case puts shame on the european union.
madam president, look, there’s a lot of good stuff in this motion, but i abstained on it because, while i’m in favour of european cooperation to support many of moldova’s challenges, such as relocating refugees, supporting the moldovan economy in terms of export and import of goods, assisting their government to prevent risks of arms smuggling, what i don’t like is us bullying them into neoliberal reforms. i’d like to say that moldova has been a constitutionally neutral state since 1994. no government has ever attempted to change its constitutional status. neutrality is very popular amongst its people. cooperation between the european union and moldova should bear this in mind. in the current context, the moldovan foreign minister made it clear that he’s not asking partners to supply him with weapons. he rightly stressed that his method is diplomatic dialogue with partners, thus contributing to strengthening peace in the area, and i salute that. as a member from another neutral state, i welcome cooperation with moldova on the basis of recognising their national sovereign foreign policy.
madam president, the republic of moldova's place is alongside romania and the other member states in the european union. that's why i voted for and will support any action that supports the integration of moldova and this hard-pressed people. moldova is fully deserving of all european aid. when we take care of our neighbors, we're actually taking care of ourselves. we are stronger if we have prosperous countries around us, with us, with solid, independent democracies. moldovans, like all europeans, must see the union not in conferences or speeches, but in improving their daily lives. we need to invest more in education and infrastructure, to fund and protect a free press, to support the economy and civil society. we can't pretend to be leaders and now hesitate. europe cannot allow moldova or other european states to be blackmailed with russian gas. europe cannot pay in rubles. europe cannot be intimidated or threatened. now is the time to show that we are united, that europe matters, not the interests, profit or friendships of one state or another.
madam president, moldova has made it clear that while it wants to join the eu and, therefore, is politically west-facing, it wants to remain militarily neutral. neutrality is enshrined in moldova’s constitution. the prime minister recently reaffirmed moldova’s neutrality. he said in an interview with euronews in relation to the russian-backed separatist area transnistria, ‘we are a neutral country and we expect all international partners to act in line with a principle of neutrality.’ moldova has asked the world to respect this neutrality. it doesn’t want to be a pawn in anyone’s proxy war. it doesn’t want to be interfered with. it seeks security through a policy of neutrality. now, that might be an alien concept to some people around here, but it’s the only true path to peace. all sides should respect moldova’s request – russia and the west. nato has nothing to offer the people of europe, and it certainly has nothing to offer the people of moldova. it’s just an instrument for war, not for peace.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report and i strongly urge the commission, european colleagues across europe to ensure that there’s enough supports and services put in place to accommodate the five million plus refugees that have now entered the european union, 90% of which are women and children. we have to accept that we have not enough support in some countries to accommodate them, both in terms of physical accommodation, but clearly in the areas of sexual reproductive health and other healthcare areas, we simply must resource those member states that have a lot of refugees coming into their country. so the report highlights the deficiencies. it also highlights the fear and the anxiety among many women that they may be abused. and that is something that we have to ensure is not only objected to, but recorded as well. and in ukraine itself, we have evidence and testimony of rape of women and young girls by russian soldiers. we need to ensure that all of this is recorded so that the supports are put in place immediately, but thereafter people can be brought and prosecuted for these crimes.
madam president, i voted with an abstention on this report with great regret. why would you do that? because first of all, the report is necessary. the problem is real, it's huge, it's disgusting, and it needs to be solved. but on the other hand, it's completely inexplicable and completely irrelevant and completely out of place. in this report, the colleagues on the left, following their political left-wing, radical marxist line of the agenda, have inserted texts that have nothing to do with the subject under discussion. they've put propaganda in, they've put their narrative of changing societies in, they've put themes in, part of their propaganda, that have no place in this report whatsoever and that in no way help the people that this report is aimed at, namely the women and girls who have suffered from the war in ukraine. for this reason, i regret to say that i abstained.
madam president, many aspects of this report are commendable. it comprehensively captures the extent of the challenges faced by women and children either trapped in or fleeing a war zone. in every war both sides engage in some kind of brutality and horror against women and children. so it is all the more necessary that we do everything in our power to achieve peace now. we must question, as the pope has done, the wisdom of sending arms to ukraine. we must stop executing the war on yemen. we must stop the use of sanctions as a weapon of war in syria, afghanistan, iran, venezuela, yemen and elsewhere. these medieval weapons are killing women and children, the sick, the old and the vulnerable the most. we must end fortress europe and extend the compassion we rightly have for the ukrainian women and children to all refugees and internally displaced people. selective humanity is not humanity at all.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i say to the dear leftists, it’s been seven years of your criticism and attacks on poland, and obviously the rule of law is one of the excuses. look at the chamber, where these seven years of your criticism led you to: there’s more people watching us from the gallery than meps taking a part in this discussion. well done. well done. that is the symbol of how many people care about your false accusations – and use of excuses and the rule of law to attack poland. so i’ll tell you what the real reason, what the real pain for you is, to criticise us. look at that: poland is a leader – it’s here in red – with our gdp after covid. that’s data. unemployment in poland – one of the lowest in the european union. it’s your data – eurostat’s – not ours. if you want to feel free, if you want to feel safe, come to poland – also your data. poland is here. germany is here. one of the safest places in the european union. these are data. these are official documents. and that’s how it is in poland. it’s your data, not ours. this is eurostat. so if you want to feel safe, be like poland. if you are looking for low unemployment, be like poland. if you love freedom, be like poland.
we're gonna have a security team check if it's okay to put a sign like that in the camera. i've been doing some digging, but we'll have to check.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i don’t know how to respond to our last speaker. methinks he doth protest too much. but in any case, i want to thank our rapporteur, terry reintke, for articulating a really strong position here. the truth is the commission’s annual rule of law report is an inadequate mechanism. it’s uneven, selective in its coverage, not independent, and it avoids specific cases. but even if it were to address our criticisms, it wouldn’t do much to stop an existential threat to the rule of law in europe that doesn’t come from within, but which comes from without, from a foreign government. and that is the danger posed by the us prosecution of julian assange. i have to say that the time for fence—sitting has run out. some people avoid this case because they think it’s complicated. it isn’t. it’s very simple. in 2010, a journalist in europe published evidence of war crimes and foreign interference by the united states. nine years later, donald trump had him prosecuted for espionage. he faces 175 years. he’s been in prison already for three, facing extradition, and a final decision is due today. if the united states can criminalise european journalists, put them in prison, snatch them from our shores, then efforts to enforce article 2 values are meaningless. colleagues, this is our last chance for a say on this case. if assange is surrendered, he’s gone. how can we talk about rule of law and not resoundingly condemn this criminal prosecution and demand his release?
mr president, colleagues, commissioner, the war in ukraine is a stark reminder that peace is a fragile thing. in the 1990s, the western balkans provided us with this grim reminder. we must never forget that only through cooperation and dialogue do we overcome hatred, competition and violence between nations. the european union is a forum for member states to reach compromise through words, not arms. by invading ukraine, russia challenges these core values. the western balkans aspire to join the eu because they share these values, but the spectre of war still hangs over the region. by continuing to stall on the aspiration of eu membership of balkan states, the eu and member states are threatening a fragile peace, breaking promises and presenting themselves as unreliable partners. i recently visited albania, as you can see, and saw first—hand the growing disillusionment with the eu integration process. albania has made great strides. so we need an immediate start to accession negotiations. if we stall further, not only do we fail to live up to our responsibility, but we risk strengthening the hands of those who undermine the values at the heart of the european union.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i very much welcome this agreement – an oecd pillar two agreement on minimum taxation. and bear in mind, it’s not just a european agreement: this is a global agreement. and i urge everybody now to come together to ensure that it is implemented and that there is no further deviation or prevarication. it was very difficult. my country had major concerns and reservations, but we came to the table in good faith and eventually, like another 137 countries, we signed up to it. so now i would urge the plenary session to send a very strong message to the council and the broader global community that this taxation of corporates at 15% is fair, is equitable, and it is the right thing to do. and bear in mind this suits large countries, small countries, developed countries and developing countries. and i think to have certainty and consensus around a global taxation system on corporates, i believe, is a very welcome step in the right direction. and i would urge that we now take this particular decision and implement it quickly. the lalucq report recommends that, and a strong, broad signal of consensus in this house, both from left and right, would, i believe, send a strong message to the broader global community. but more important, we now need certainty. we need certainty for business to ensure that they can plan ahead to create opportunities and investment; but more importantly, that europe remains competitive, that we create employment for our citizens across the entire continent. so i commend the report and i look forward to voting tomorrow to recommend this to the world.
madam president, i support this agreement. thank you, commissioner, for your work on this deal. i think that in the area of taxation, we have always been cautious, cautious in my political group, but we appreciate this compromise. we must avoid that activities and taxation escape outside the european area. and i think this agreement, with its global impact, is a step in the right direction. we also have to avoid the excesses of the past, luxleaks, which actually pointed to tax dumping. there must be tax competition, i am for it, but we must also avoid the unfair actions of some states. so doing everything to minimize tax evasion and to maintain the drive for fair taxation - that, i think, after many years of talk, is very good progress.
madam president, madam commissioner, i think that the debate on this subject is going in one direction, namely that we must hurry up and apply this minimum tax rate for multinationals, because it is something expected not only by us, the members of the european parliament who have spoken here, but also by citizens, by micro, small and mediumsized enterprises. we need to get to a tax ethic in the european space, in the european union space, and yes, as a former entrepreneur in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises, i can tell you that they are under pressure from multinationals, because the best workers are taken by multinationals, the investment power, the capitalization power. and here i am, going to the lowest tax areas. that's why i think you should make every effort so that we can apply as soon as possible. it's a first step, maybe we should have had a lower rate, maybe we should have had a higher percentage in taxation, but i think we should not be stuck and we should start now this system proposed by you and voted by us, certainly, tomorrow.
madam president, the proposal for a directive on a minimum level of taxation for multinational groups, following the g20 agreement to set a global minimum rate of 15%, defines, of course, what does not exist today. but let's see, 15 percent. a figure which shows a lack of will to reverse the low taxation of large capital and which constitutes a real risk that a minimum rate may be regarded as a maximum taxation reference. if it were 25%, the tax revenue of the states would triple. a directive which risks excluding 85 to 90% of multinational groups, which lays down exceptions and exemptions, in particular excluding investment funds and the so-called vulture funds, responsible for speculation in the real estate sector, and which some may wish to take as a step in the assault on matters in the domain of national sovereignty, such as taxation. well, you could say that we're looking at a rate where something changes so that essentially everything stays the same.
a uachtaráin, i really welcome the adoption of a minimum level of 15% of taxation for multinational groups. this has been a bone of contention for many years and indeed it wasn’t always member states’ fault because there was competition to get investment. but now that we are putting a floor under it, it establishes a level playing field. i am also very pleased that the european union did not act unilaterally and waited for the oecd because the more countries that adopt the minimum level, the less opportunity there is for multinationals to play one off against the other. the other point i would make is that many citizens probably are paying far greater than 15% tax in their take-home pay. but we look forward to the day, and particularly when we revise this in five years’ time, of maybe increasing the minimum level to 20% and reducing the threshold from eur 750 to 500 billion.
madam president, our irish commissioner, mairead mcguinness, will be well aware of the fact that the corporate tax rate in ireland has been 12.5% for a good while. but sadly, some companies get away with paying 2% and some actually get away with paying less. so if it’s increasing from 12.5% to 15%, will the likes of google be paying 4.5% or will they be paying 15%? because if we don’t do away with the loopholes, then it makes a laughing stock of this legislation. i’m amused to hear people talk about fair taxation for companies: ‘oh, will it inhibit their potential to employ workers?’ listen: we’re not talking about taxing their turnover, we’re talking about taxing their profits. it’s outrageous that they wouldn’t be paying as much tax as your average worker, and workers are paying 25%, 30%, 35% and 40%. why aren’t companies who are making too much money not prepared to pay the same money as individuals do? that’s beyond me!
madam president, sadly, a great propaganda campaign was launched in my country, latvia, to advocate for the demolition of memorial sites and beautiful places of soldiers of the world war ii, accompanied by numerous acts of vandalism. last friday, the riga city council decided to demolish the biggest memorial monument to the liberators of riga and latvia from nazi occupation. the protest action against this decision was forbidden, and two organisers and myself were detained by the police. the latvian authorities, in their decisions, hide behind the events in ukraine, while in kyiv itself, on the day of 9 may, an official ceremony was held at the eternal flame in memory of those killed during world war ii. in riga thousands of residents brought flowers to our monument on 9 may, but the city authorities defiantly destroyed the flower carpet by tractor on the same night. it is unacceptable.
a uachtaráin, as a rapporteur for the energy performance of buildings, i am concerned that we may not reach our targets due to funding issues. some 72% of renovations at the moment are self-funded, yet only 18% of consumers are taking loans to renovate their homes, as they are too expensive. so there is a funding gap of eur 214 billion a year for green financing for residential buildings. these numbers do not seem to add up to the successful harnessing of the renovation wave. the commission has already asked the european banking authority to develop standards for green loans and green mortgages. the energy performance of buildings directive, under article 15, increases the toolbox for member states in relation to financial incentives and market barriers, including energy-efficiency loans and mortgages for building renovations. both would greatly facilitate future efforts by the ecb in this direction. i am calling on the ecb to provide additional incentives for banks to set energy efficiency as a criterion for low interest rates and green mortgages for households so that we can bridge the gap, reduce emissions, make houses more comfortable and healthy, and decrease electricity bills.
madam president, the stigma around breaking the law has been significantly eroded by the uk government. it’s not just the personal behaviour of the prime minister himself or his very loose grasp of the truth, and it’s not just the breach of so many constitutional norms – like the prorogation of parliament and the multiple events being dragged through court – it is, of course, the way that they have tried to disapply the very agreement that they negotiated, signed and ratified: through triggering article 16, through threatening to do that, through unilateral extensions of the grace periods and, of course, the internal market bill. so how long can we continue to make concessions? how long can we continue to make concessions that are trousered by the uk government, and then they come back for more? but we still have to focus on solutions. i believe the us has a key role to play here. it’s always been an honest broker in northern ireland and it has something that the uk wants, which is a trade deal. so it needs to provide a pathway to the uk to a trade deal that is contingent on implementing the withdrawal agreement and the protocol.
madam president, the fatal shooting of journalist shireen abu aqla in jenin in the west bank just one week ago is deeply shocking, as were the horrifying scenes of brutality at her funeral. shireen was shot and her producer and colleague also injured in the course of their work as journalists and while clearly identifiable as press. the critical work of journalists, particularly in places of conflict, underpins human rights and democracy and must be protected. only two weeks ago, we marked world press freedom day, which pays tribute to all journalists who have risked or lost their lives in the course of their work. that day also serves as a reminder that accurate information is of vital public good. it is incumbent on us all to ensure that courageous and independent journalists continue to expose injustices without fear or threat of grave violence. i join the calls from a growing number of organisations for an immediate, independent and transparent investigation into shireen abu aqla’s death. those responsible must be held accountable.
madam president, the killing of shireen abu aqla on 11 may in jenin refugee camp was reprehensible. it was an attack not just on the individual, but on the ability for journalists and the press to go about their business to inform the world. i have to say at the outset that we have to have an independent investigation, and the european union must insist, or else we have to recalibrate our relationship with the israeli state. what was done on that day was reprehensible, but the israeli state was not just content with killing shireen; it then had to take her dignity in her death by attacking her funeral cortege. it was an outrageous attack on an individual and on their family and what she stood for. commissioner, there’s no doubt in this house: the palestinian state is being systematically dismantled by the israeli state. the two-state solution no longer exists, and if we continue to allow israel not just to occupy, but to annex and dismantle, the two-state peace strategy will be dead.
madam president, last week, hong kong police arrested the brave and peace—loving cardinal joseph zen and three other trustees of the 612 humanitarian relief fund. the fact that the four trustees have been arrested for collusion with foreign forces under the so-called ‘national security law’, just days after the election of john lee as the new chief executive, shows without any doubt that beijing intends to intensify its crackdown on basic rights and freedoms in hong kong. european leaders must condemn these arrests and finally adopt targeted sanctions under the eu magnitsky act against individuals and entities responsible for actions undermining international agreements and for oppressing the people of hong kong. today’s global struggle between the free world and non-democratic regimes requires bold leadership. because if we are not willing to speak up for freedom everywhere, we cannot expect to enjoy freedom anywhere.
madam president, the murder of shireen abu akleh by israeli forces is not an isolated case. in 2021, in the occupied palestinian territories, there were hundreds of cases of abuse against journalists by israeli forces, responsible already this year in the escalation of israeli aggression against the palestinian people for about 50 dead, hundreds of injured and arrests of palestinians. the unspeakable images of the attack on the shireen funeral procession are not only reprehensible, they are an expression of israel's impunity and brutal policy of aggression, occupation and colonization of palestine and repression of its people, which began 74 years ago with the nakba. commissioner, where is the suspension clause in the eu-israel association agreement? the european union, by its connivance and complicity, is contributing by its omission to the aggravation of the israeli policy which aims to prevent the realization of the inalienable rights of the palestinian people, as enshrined in un resolutions, namely to establish a sovereign, viable and independent state of palestine within the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital. all solidarity with the struggle of the palestinian people!
madam president, i would like to draw attention to the risk of famine due to the conflict in ukraine. we see hundreds, even thousands of crimes in ukraine bucha, kramatorsk, irpin and others. of course, ukraine has our full support, military, financial, resource and moral. what is frightening are the consequences, which are also reflected in the skyrocketing prices of food in particular. this increase in prices could have a significant impact in the third world. it could be a huge price shock and there could be a real famine. what should we do? of course, to help ukraine win this conflict, provoked by russia, by clear aggression. secondly, to ensure planting, harvesting and care for ukrainian farmers. thirdly, the removal of ukraine's crop failures and, of course, targeted aid to vulnerable countries, especially those in the third world. the best news will be if ukraine wins. no doubt we can avoid starvation.
madam president, people in the north of ireland recently voted to elect sinn féin as the largest party to an assembly where everyone bar the dup wants the protocol and the assembly to work. the british government loudly proclaim that they are defending the good friday agreement, but the reality is, is that they constantly attack and undermine it. they claim to uphold international law while unilaterally breaching it – not just on the protocol, but by amnesties for british state forces guilty of human rights abuses. the dup’s jeffrey donaldson proclaims that the protocol goes against the good friday agreement, when neither he nor his party have ever supported it. let me be clear: the good friday agreement is under threat from a toxic alliance of the british government and the dup, and the european parliament needs to make it clear that this behaviour is not acceptable.
madam president, sweden and finland making moves to join the most aggressive military bloc on earth is a sign of how rotten and corrupted the political class in europe has become. we all know exactly what nato is: a post—war mechanism designed to maintain us dominance and control over western europe, advance us geostrategic interests and violently suppress socialism. to pursue these aims, nato has partnered with right—wing terrorists and fascists to conduct long campaigns of bloody terror and destabilisation, both in and outside western europe. everywhere it conducts operations, it leaves a trail of destruction and destabilisation behind it, and persists often for decades after the initial act of aggression. as the pope has recognised, nato sowed the seeds of conflict in ukraine. who will pay for its facilitation and the prolonging of the war? the us calls the shots, but it’s the eu and targeted states that have to deal with the fallout and the instability. nato will do nothing for a peaceful europe. it never has and it never will.
mr president, the future of education lies in an integrated european education area, where fundamental values, automatic recognition of degrees and qualifications, and effective student representation on all levels are practised. we must ensure that in creating this european education area, the eu promotes minimum standards on investments in education, in areas of mental—health support services and outreach for those and our most vulnerable students, in line with the european pillar of social rights. it is essential that ukrainian students and its institutions can easily interact with the programme and partake in it. and we look to the best example, like the erasmus+ programme, which is currently proving to be a powerful tool to support ukrainian students. finally, the covid—19 pandemic, the climate crisis and the rise of authoritarianism make the role of education and exercising our engagement more important than ever.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we naturally reaffirm our solidarity with the ukrainian people, the victims of violence which we thought belonged to a dark past. war, food shortages, rising commodity prices and inflation are bringing our businesses and families to their knees. the repowereu plan, presented yesterday by the commission, is a first positive step forward, but more courage is needed. the energy transition is a priority which must also be supported through nuclear energy, as the commission has rightly said. but we have to be realistic. and to do all of that, it takes hundreds of billions. using the unspent funds from the next generation eu may not be enough to meet the many challenges of these years. in fact, the plan does not provide any new financial resources. we also believe that a new common issue of debt securities is needed to finance a common energy policy. the common purchasing platform is a good thing, provided that it does not remain a vague thing and that, as with vaccines, we come to have a true single european price for energy. that is why a european gas price ceiling is essential. i mean, we can do more, but we're moving in the right direction.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner simson, thank you very much for the proposal that has been made. i'm very pleased. it is high time that we started to do the unfinished business in the european union. the one unfinished task is a lack of diversification of energy supply. believe me, as a german, i know what i'm talking about. the second is to take measures to counter price developments. we must act urgently here if we are not to lose the support of the people for the eu's political course both in the green deal and in the policy of sanctions against russia. another homework to be done is to urgently point out the lack of critical infrastructure and here too - and this would be an additional request to the commission - to come up with a list of priorities of what critical infrastructure needs to be urgently addressed now so that we can support each other. the best example of this is still the interconnector between france and spain. but they also have to be hydrogen-carrying, so h2-ready. otherwise, they're the wrong investment. i think this is the ultimate test of european solidarity. we must not allow ourselves to be divided, because then russia will win. we must be able to help each other, and do so effectively.
mr president, a quick glance at a map of central europe 150 years ago shows that the area was totally dominated by four empires: the habsburg, the german, the ottoman and the russian. on the map, you don’t see the polish, the czechs, the estonians, the slovaks, the hungarians, the latvians, the romanians, the bulgarians, the lithuanians, the croatians, the serbs, the bosniaks, the austrians, you don’t see the jews, you don’t see the roma, and you don’t even see the finns. then change started to happen, and we thought that the era of suppressing empires with their spheres of interest would be over. but when we look at the new map from 1848, for instance, you see something very peculiar. the three empires have vanished, but one is bigger and more influential than ever before. the russian empire was still there, although another name, and it’s still there trying to enlarge their spheres of influence by energy resources and by the army. but we earlier oppressed peoples of europe have one message: the era of empires is over. in the same manner, the era of fossil empires is over, and the politically fossilised empires are over. and we are going to do our part by decarbonising our enemy and economy, and by joining nato.
mr president, the repowereu initiative announced yesterday contained some good elements, but these must be followed up by concrete actions. i welcome the raising of the binding renewable target to 45% and the mandatory national energy savings target from 9% to 13%. and these moves will inject some ambition into the renewable energy directive, contribute to greater energy security, as well as lowering our carbon emissions and our energy bills. and this will be a crucial tool to reduce our dependence on russian energy imports. more insulated homes means less funding for putin and his murderous war. however, on the day when the commission could have solidified our break from dirty fossil fuels, they regrettably chose to provide further funding for lng and oil infrastructure, and diverting these funds towards renewables would have offered more protection against the kind of volatility we’re seeing in oil and gas prices. so let’s make sure that the repowereu brings about real changes and makes the break with fossil fuels. more wind and more solar means more peace in europe and the world.
a uachtaráin, i would like to welcome the repowereu plan, especially plans to tackle massive problems in licensing and permits as well as increased renewable energy targets. however, to reduce our dependency on russian energy and fossil fuels, we must address the building sector much more readily and give it the priority it deserves. the residential sector alone accounts for 40% of eu gas demand, mainly for heating and cooling. reducing residential energy consumption will greatly reduce the need to increase the eu’s energy generation capacity, especially for peak hours. not only are we in a pivotal decade for the climate, but we are also in an energy crisis. it already has caused severe economic hardship for many businesses and households. we need a coherent and realistic energy policy that takes into account the new geopolitical situation. we have committed to 2050 as a goal to reach climate neutrality. however, it is not helpful having members speak in this chamber as if we can simply switch to 100% renewable energy at the flick of a switch. we need to be realistic about transition. we have the end destination. now we have to decide how to run the race.
(the president declared the minutes closed) i 'm not ... less energy from russia, more production in the european union. the aim is probably one we can all agree on. but when i look at the repowereu proposal, i still have some questions: the commission has also proposed to allocate eur 7.5 billion from the second pillar of the common agricultural policy to build new biogas plants. i wonder where the raw materials come from. is it appropriate, at a time when we are experiencing painful shortages in the food market, to create incentives for food to be gassed in biogas plants? if so, then we need a clear cascade principle, food for the table and for the trough and waste and manure for the biogas plant. but why do they want to withdraw money from the common agricultural policy? we can finance these investments in exactly the same way under the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we put this money into repowereu, it is clear that it is not our farms that will benefit, but the big energy companies. we then take the money from the farmers and create incentives for large companies like engie, e.on, enel to invest in businesses that were previously in the hands of farmers. i don't necessarily want to support that.
mr president, madam commissioner, i do support and warmly welcome the efforts of the european commission to find a way to stop our dependence on russian gas and oil. i do support the efforts of the commission to find different ways to supply those crucial energy resources to our continent. however, welcoming the repowereu initiative, i would like to express my concerns and saying that requiring additional eur 30 billion coming from the cohesion policy and about 8 billion coming from agriculture policy, it puts to a danger the development of those policies who already funded a lot of initiatives. let me just briefly go through all of them: care, care+, crii 1, crii 2, react-eu and now repowereu. in the cohesion policy, we already have 100 billion who are at disposal for decarbonisation, transition and different ways to find resources to our own continent. let’s use them and not create another one. and as a conclusion i would like to say yes, we have to find a way to import energy resources to our continent, but we should develop our own and use the existing one as well.
mr president, commissioner, energy independence is a key objective of the european union. it is unacceptable that we are buying energy from russia for a billion euros a day. we're basically funding the purchase of weapons for mr. putin. but this goal is not new. we have been talking for a long time about interconnections and, for example, energy interconnections between portugal, spain and france. the commission should have included this repowereu in the multiannual financial framework. it has not done so, and it must now include it in a review which is urgent, just as it is urgent, if we are to meet the expectations of the citizens, if we are to have new revenue for the union budget, new own resources. we cannot be funding repowereu by cutting amounts from poorer regions, cutting amounts from rural development. this initiative is welcome, but funding cannot be at the expense of the poorest.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. - i'm not sure. i am not going to go into detail. reducing our dependence on russian exports is the order of the day. i welcome the proposal that the commission has now put forward in the context of repowereu. the commission's proposal is a welcome one, as it contains good ideas for financing the ambitious plans. the aim is to exploit synergies and flexibility between the existing eu funding packages and the eu reconstruction fund. i think it is right that we should use the funds that are available here and have not been used, and not take on new debt for the projects. our priority must be to ensure affordability and security of supply. our citizens must continue to be able to pay their energy bills. only then will the accelerated change have a chance of widespread acceptance. we must not allow bureaucratic restrictions to take the breath away from small and mediumsized enterprises. i also say clearly: we must look at why the accelerated change is taking place too slowly, for example in photovoltaic systems. the problem is not that there is no money, but that there is a lack of materials and a lack of skilled workers to build the photovoltaic systems. so please, in the further discussions on fit for 55 and repowereu, take the given realities into account!
the commission is trying to do its best, mr president, and i congratulate the commissioner. and in the european parliament i think we are almost all trying together. but the key is the energy policy of governments. take the example of the greek government: in march, following the russian invasion of ukraine, the value of imports from russia increased by 69% to eur 532 million. this is mainly natural gas imports. the tragic comedy is that in greece we have no serious exports to russia. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the non-compliance of the measures. there is no bilateral trade, just energy dependence on russia, which the greek government is not doing its job to deal with. we can't go on like this. the institutions are showing the way forward, but many governments, unfortunately, are not following.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: when will putin cut off supplies to other eu countries? i think it's just a matter of time. and he'll do it when he's at his worst. we must therefore show solidarity and act together, for example by reviewing programmes and changing the funding of both the cohesion and the common agricultural policies. we have to take into account the level of development of the countries. we must take account of the level of direct payments so that it is not the case that some countries suffer little and others suffer very much. and can we live without energy? of course not. but can we use it less? i did. can we make it ourselves, independently? of course, yeah. and those countries that already had problems with russia, they made a big profit. we urge everyone to act quickly.
mr president, the european union was formed with the concern of avoiding new clashes over raw materials and energy. however, our obsession with renewable energy has led us to the inconsistency of creating a dependence on third countries with totalitarian regimes, such as russia, which have robbed us of peace. but no, they cannot admit that it was a wrong strategy, that the targets were too demanding, that the plan was not well designed, and they continue to insist on accelerating the green transition. we have been crying out for an energy mix that would allow us to be self-sufficient. do you not see that environmental policies are fuelling instability, insecurity and poverty in the union and in our countries?
mr president, the repower eu plan in march set an additional 50 billion cubic metre lng import target, but that’s just 28% of the existing total import capacity. during the 2021 calendar year, only 42% of the eu’s total annual lng import capacity was used. europe does not need a new lng infrastructure. yet yesterday, president von der leyen committed eur 10 billion to gas, lng and oil infrastructure to stop shipments from russia. some 70% of global energy lng supply is already under long-term contract. there will be very little extra coming online before 2025. so the eu will only be able to import more by drawing supplies away from other markets at sky—high prices. the real issue is global supply and price, not infrastructure. new lng infrastructure will be built too late to address the current energy crisis. lng will delay the just transition. lng does not serve the energy poor and it will not fix europe’s fossil fuel dependency.
mr president, i was a shop steward and a trade unionist all my working life. i stand against the repression of trade unionists everywhere. and this resolution could have done that in relation to belarus, where the scale and nature of the arrests of trade union leaders is clearly a violation of the right to organise, and something which i utterly condemn. but yet again, what we have is an urgent social issue being contorted beyond recognition for geopolitical point scoring. we’ve a motion welcoming further sanctions on belarus, which, contrary to the statements of solidarity, is going to inflict further economic hardship on belarusian citizens. it talks about belarus having to maintain its neutrality, while at the same time ordering direct support to the belarussian opposition, not to mind forcing other countries who are neutral to abandon that and join nato. could we ever have a day in here – just one, maybe – when this parliament didn’t instrumentalise human rights? it’s an absolute joke, which is why i abstained.
mr president, the resolution on the detention of trade union leaders in belarus welcomes the commission proposal for a six—sanctions package on russia and belarus, and calls on the council to ensure its comprehensive and swift implementation. the resolution also calls for a strict mirroring of the sanctions issued against russia to belarus and their appropriate application also in the case of all future rounds of sanctions. well, so much for solidarity with belarusian workers! sanctions don’t work. us sanctions on cuba have failed to deliver regime change after 62 years. 400 000—plus people died in iraq because of sanctions, and all for nothing. the sanctions achieved nothing, only death and destruction. sanctions hurt ordinary people, they hurt the poorest people. discrimination against trade union membership and the imprisonment of trade unionists should, of course, be condemned in belarus and everywhere else. but calling for crushing sanctions is not an expression of solidarity with the working people and working class of belarus.
mr president, there’s no doubt about it: the images and stories of the atrocities emerging from ukraine are truly horrific. they join similar images and stories from the likes of palestine, from yemen, from afghanistan – all a testament to the depths of human cruelty, the enormity of human suffering, and to the evils of war. yet the truth is that accountability for war crimes is the exception, not the rule, especially for powerful states. because the only truly international system for holding war criminals accountable has been systematically undermined since the day it was created. we even had the obscenity in 2018 of the united states threatening to arrest and sanction icc judges if they pursued americans for war crimes in afghanistan. the result is that the icc has a shamefully limited jurisdiction. it has only indicted 46 people in its 20 year history, all of them african. it might suit some people in here to condemn russian war crimes while ignoring american and israeli ones. i condemn them all. but unless the law applies equally for all countries, we will never have an international system of justice for the victims of war crimes.
mr president, war is a crime and wars create war crimes. the parliament rightly condemns war crimes in ukraine, but does very little to stop the war. the parliament condemns the illegal invasion and occupation of ukraine by russia, but says nothing about the illegal occupation of palestine by the israelis or the illegal occupation of syria by israel, the us and turkey. the parliament condemns the indiscriminate shelling of ukrainian towns and cities, and rightly so, but does not want to talk about the 400 000 that have been killed in yemen by the targeted destruction of food, water and health infrastructure by us and eu—made bombs – bombs that are dropping as we speak. while we are investigating russian war crimes in ukraine, can we also investigate french war crimes in mali, saudi, the uae and french, us, uk war crimes in yemen, israeli war crimes in palestine, us war crimes in iraq and syria and nato war crimes in afghanistan and libya. international law selectively applied makes a mockery of international law.
mr. president, i was in bucea and irpin, i saw the hell that putin's troops are doing. i've smelled death, i've seen mass graves with my own eyes, i've walked through cities that have been literally wiped off the face of the earth. i've been in customs with romania and the republic of moldova. i saw mothers with children running on foot from the bombs. i've seen orphans, the elderly, people with disabilities, who have nowhere to turn or nowhere to turn. their families were killed, their homes were destroyed. for almost three months, the group i created in romania, "united for ukraine", volunteers have been helping tireless people who have not only seen hell, but have also lived it. i voted "yes" without blinking. not only history, but our own children will judge us if we allow these crimes against humanity and those who committed them to go unpunished. criminals must pay in all the forms that exist on this earth.
mr president, i drove through switzerland last weekend and diesel was 2.29 a litre. the swiss franc and the euro are at parity at the moment. the us dollar is almost at parity with the euro. the impact of the war on european citizens is going to be dramatic. we know that the sanctions are not stopping the war and they’re not going to stop it. diplomacy and dialogue will eventually stop the war, the sanctions won’t. but the sanctions are hurting european citizens themselves to a terrible degree in time. we are in for a very tough time. we’re introducing sanctions that are not bothering putin, but are designed to obviously punish russia, but we’re also punishing our own. instead of buying off russia now, we’re going to buy off the americans and we’re going to pay through the nose for it. they will take advantage of our position. ′ tis little wonder that nato and the us are happy to escalate the war rather than to try and stop it.
mr president, for me, the aim of this resolution really is to put in place measures to offset the costs of continuing the war when in actual fact what we should be doing is working to end it. this lunacy is anchored in the knowledge that sanctions are hurting the people of the european union and not, i would say, enhancing european security, but rather actually undermining it. i see now in every meeting and every committee, people in here slobbering over vast sums of money being ring—fenced for increased militarisation and securitisation, when these were the policies that contributed to the start of the war in the first place. these are resources, which could be dealt with to help the problems of ordinary people: health, housing, good public services and so on. but they’re not, and it’s ordinary people who are continuing to pay the price of this war. the measures that we’ve put in place today – while there’s some nice sounding words about environmental conditionality, rule of law conditionality, helping the ordinary people – are pretty weak in terms of those calls, and to me it smacks of a corporate handout.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the anti-democratic backwardness, historical revisionism and the aggressiveness of the erdoğan leadership towards greece and cyprus are increasingly distancing it from democracy, international law and the european union. they are turning it into a destabilizing factor and an unreliable and dangerous partner. we can see this in the way he has dealt with the russian invasion of ukraine and the demands of finland and sweden. ladies and gentlemen, if we want peace and stability in the region and democracy in turkey, we need a tougher attitude towards the turkish leadership, more pressure, not a logic of equal distances, not tea and sympathy. the european parliament is clear and unequivocal. but we expect the same attitude from you in the commission. no comments from the commission representative following the challenge to the sovereignty of the greek islands. and we are waiting for the council and the governments to finally adopt the european parliament's request for an arms embargo against the erdoğan leadership.
president, there is no place in europe for this turkey where journalists are attacked, opposition members are suppressed and violence against women seems to be accepted, and that overrides binding judgments of the european court of human rights. not a membership, but a partnership. turkey is an important strategic partner. this has become even more apparent during the war in ukraine. but this does not mean that europe should abandon its values. i sometimes wonder why erdoğan still wants to join the european union. he is fooling europe every day. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to achieve their goals. can a person be called a partner? i am therefore very pleased that parliament is taking a very clear position today: turkey cannot join.
mr president, it is only in recent months that mr erdogan has been calling for the demilitarisation of the greek islands in the eastern aegean, directly challenging the sovereignty of greece. it continues its provocations in the eastern mediterranean and its illegal activities in the enclosed area of varosha, without regard for the decisions of the un. he blackmails europe over finland and sweden joining nato, and he's the only country that hasn't imposed sanctions on russia. he continues to violate human rights inside turkey, with anyone who questions his authority being turned directly into an enemy of the state or a terrorist, as seen in the case of kavala and demirtaş. he is also trying to outlaw the pro-kurdish hdp party. the european union must not make the same mistakes with erdogan as it did with putin. anyone who questions international law, anyone who is a reviewer, should be treated the same. the european union has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the fight against terrorism in the past. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, we must give priority to the defence of the rights of the kurds. erdogan is attacking or has occupied kurdish areas in syria and iraq. it is not respecting international law and it can be trained for adventures to the detriment of greece and cyprus. erdogan labels the kurds, like many of his political opponents, "terrorists". it is using this arbitrary characterization to object to the accession of finland and sweden to nato, and even to threaten greece. with a mixture of persecution and regulation, he is trying to get the peoples' democratic party (hdp) out of parliament. the mistreatment of the kurds by erdoğan and the turkish system of power must play a key role in our assessment of turkey and the prospects for euro-turkish relations. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately there is a strategic partner called turkey, which is identified with the sanctions against russia, does not welcome the russian oligarchs and does not continue the oriental bargaining. fortunately, turkey does not blackmail with immigration and does not exploit refugees. it is good that turkey respects the human rights of its citizens and does not imprison anyone who disagrees. she has good relations with her neighbors and doesn't cause tensions every once in a while. it's not seizing european territory by force, it's not provoking in the aegean, and it's not attempting a new invasion of syria as we speak. unfortunately for us, this is a fairy tale that we would very much like to be true, but it has an end, like all fairy tales. but there are those within the european family who want to believe that this fairy tale is true. for one thing, to serve the economic interests of their countries. and this fairy tale will not have a happy ending for europe itself, but a tragic one. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, i am firmly convinced and i demand that the european parliament's report on turkey should begin and end with the strongest, clearest and most rigorous statement possible: that the european union does not tolerate any aggressor, that the european union cannot and must not have any relation whatsoever with any aggressor, and in fact with the aggressor of the aggressors, who for 48 years has occupied the european territory of a member state of the european union, cyprus, in flagrant violation of human rights and the rule of law, continues to threaten and violate the sovereign rights of the countries of the european union, cyprus and greece, and has not respected and does not respect any principle or value of the european union. the european union must be firm on these issues. for those of us who have been subjected for 48 years to turkish barbarity and criminality, invasion and occupation, for me who, together with my family and 200,000 greek cypriot refugees, bear the martyr's cross of refuge, the european union cannot consider the invader a strategic partner. since when is the invader, tell me, a strategic partner? since when is the invader part of the european union? we must take this step, the strong step of the european parliament, to send a strong message to everyone. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. no to the new achievements of erdogan and his henchmen in the occupation regime of famagusta and at the expense of its legal residents, the greek cypriots! (applause)
mr president, turkey's revisionist attitude, president erdogan's threats and blackmail have crossed all bounds. finally, the deliberate escalation of tension, erdogan's insulting reference to the greek prime minister, the blackmailing dilemmas and the disregard for international law call for us to rise to the occasion. the daily violations and overflights of greek territory are being followed by president erdogan's rant, just yesterday, against those who, if possible, left the islands to greece and allowed cyprus to join the european union. it has gone so far as to threaten a new invasion of the aegean and a repeat of 1922. ladies and gentlemen, the criticisms of erdogan's tactics so far have failed, we have failed. the debt is forcing us to react with a vigour comparable to that of the overnight decision to impose sanctions on russia for its illegal aggression against ukraine. the european union is not a two-tiered union, it would be unfair to our historic responsibility towards the european citizens and the democratic moral values of the union. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on his report. the neo-ottoman expansionism has brought us here, with security issues for the states of the eastern mediterranean, and particularly greece and cyprus, but also for other states such as syria, libya, even the caucasus, for one reason: we have followed the policy of appeasement, which unfortunately feeds the beast. human rights and international law, both of which the turkish regime is brutally violating. we are counting days since russia's brutal invasion of ukraine, but in the case of cyprus, which is a territory of the european union, we are counting years. forty-eight, since 1974, of the invasion and continued occupation of european union territory. with one contradiction, though. we have rightly imposed six sanctions packages on russia - not one on turkey. and i'll close with three sentences. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to take action against the united states. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, i wish this report could read differently, but it does indicate how turkey has backslid in the fundamental principles of democracy. the report calls on turkey to fully implement all judgments of the european court of human rights, in line with article 46 of the european convention on human rights. it reiterates the strong condemnation and regret over turkey’s withdrawal, by presidential decree, from the council of europe’s convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. it asserts that the continued prosecution, censorship and harassment of journalists and independent media, an issue of concern in turkey, needs to be addressed without delay. the report goes on and goes on. it does highlight, unfortunately, and expresses deep concern about the state—sponsored deterioration in human rights situation for the lgbtqi people, in particular with regard to physical attacks and hate crimes, especially against transgender persons and protective bans on pride marches across the country. i would love to see a different turkey, but we have a long way to go before it is acceptable to the norms and principles which we prescribe in this particular parliament.
mr president, year on year, we hear the same rhetoric about turkey’s inability to live up to european values and standards. and yet, at the same time, we’re really happy to give them billions on a filthy deal designed to ensure that those fleeing what were often western-provoked wars in afghanistan, iraq and syria and so on are prevented from exercising their legal right to seek asylum in europe and kept in turkey. and people here have criticised erdogan for instrumentalising migrants. of course he can, because we fail to live up to our international responsibility. and we have the misnamed minister for european values, schinas, telling us that he has a clear conscience about pushbacks from greece into turkey, denying the irrefutable evidence that the greek coast guard are involved in what amounts to murder. well, you know what? with values like that, i’d say turkey fits in pretty well. and when you add their incursions again into syrian sovereignty and undermining syrian sovereign territory without a word from the european union, is it any wonder that they don’t take seriously anything that the eu says?
mr president, turkey is a nato member and is a partner of many eu member states. so why does the eu actually tolerate what turkey gets up to? turkey has been breaking international law on a regular basis for a long time and we put up with it. now we complain, and rightly so, about their illegality with cyprus and greece. but you know what? i actually think turkey must be confused because we never said bugger all to them about their illegal occupation of iraq or their stealing oil, their illegal occupation of syria, along with the americans and the israelis, where oil and food has been stolen. the inconsistencies of this place makes a mockery of our notion of the rule of law, of fundamental values and european values. come on, why don't you apply the same rule every day? are you okay with turkey continuing to illegally occupy syria? and now they're threatening to move further into it and take more of it, and you’re saying nothing to them. is it because you basically prefer erdogan to assad? bring in some consistency and you shall have some credibility. until then, you shall have no credibility.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, the climate change and defence roadmap calls for increased spending in research, technologies and capabilities that would supposedly allow the armed forces to reduce their carbon footprint. yet the text allows for the voluntary setting of carbon emissions reductions targets – a weaker position than that contained in the original roadmap. the language in the text centres on efficiency gains rather than absolute reductions that would be achieved by less activity on behalf of the armed forces. the report repeatedly maintains that these reductions efforts should not affect the performance of the armed forces. in effect, the report is advocating for a massive transfer of public wealth to private arms manufacturing companies to supply innovations and equipment that would not guarantee overall reductions in carbon emissions from the activities of the armed forces. to achieve these reductions, the eu must scale down military operations. we need to break our link with nato, we need to look for debt cancellation in affected countries and we should go back to the path of diplomacy to avoid so much military activity.
mr. president, today climate change is not only a gigantic environmental problem, it is also one of the greatest threats to our global security because it acts as a threat multiplier and because it has enormous security implications because there are four factors behind it that are aggravating it: one, it is deepening poverty; two, it is going to multiply forced displacement; three, it is going to increase competition for resources; and four, it is going to increase conflict on the planet. that is why we are voting in favour of this report here today, which we are debating in response to the defence and climate change strategy presented by the european external action service. three important messages: to incorporate the climate dimension into our security and defence policy, to achieve the decarbonisation of our instruments in terms of foreign and security policy and, at the same time, to adapt our missions to environments affected by climate change. we welcome the fact that the european parliament is today incorporating the climate dimension into its foreign and security policy and we also congratulate the strategic compass for doing the same in this dimension.
mr president, it’s interesting that we’re having this discussion at the same plenary when we’re voting on the fit for 55 package, because the truth is that military activity does emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases and pollutants in its production and in its operation. yes, we continue to spend billions in a secret manner surrounding its share of emissions. any attempts that we’ve made, for example, to try to get the military industry to register and meet its ghg emission reduction standards, or at least to disclose them, have been regularly voted down in this plenary. we continue to pour billions into military mobility, adapting infrastructure for military use without any heed been paid to the environmental footprint of the same. i have a certain sympathy for some of the comments from colleagues who are aghast at this idea of a kind of green euro-militarism. i agree, but for the complete opposite reason that they put forward, because actually climate change is the biggest challenge facing our planet and militarism in any form undermines that. so we can’t really dress it up. as long as we continue to promote rivalry and division rather than cooperation, then we will fail in our duty.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, what is the role of eu in and with the indo-pacific region? i believe that the eu has to participate not only in the economic but also in the political arena, helping to contribute to the stability, development and security of the whole region. we need to have strong cooperation between democracies, aspiring democracies and those who want to protect the rules-based international order. we need to strengthen and diversify our partners in this region. the growing economic and military role of china in the indo-pacific must be balanced by others, and we need to secure the stability and the security of the region. and it is welcome that the eu is now increasing presence also in the area of security and defence. with this report, we need better assets and coordination. climate change has to be central in our security agenda. it threatens this region and the whole world. on some other security issues, the eu has to be quite selective with its partners. but preventing climate crisis must be inclusive and multilateral because it is the challenge of everyone. the indo-pacific should have been better incorporated also in the strategic compass, and i hope that will be fixed in the future. we have to recognise the eu's initiatives such as the global gateway as playing an important role in our security policies.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, much has changed in our approach to the indo-pacific since the famous negotiations of the cai in december 2020. the report being discussed today is probably the best example of this change. yet when we see the recommendation of [inaudible] and think about earlier meanders and mistakes in our policies towards the region, similar to the meanders and mistakes of policies vis—à—vis russia, we have to question this recommendation. unity, which is so much appreciated and in the report, is best achieved by unanimous voting in the cfsp.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the eu does indeed have a role to play in the indo-pacific, both for economic and geopolitical reasons. and that means we cannot allow ourselves to fall into ambivalence. we have to make clear where we stand. a free and open indo-pacific for all: that’s one of our commanding goals. this can be and should be supported by a network of trusted connectivity initiatives like the european global gateway initiative. in the centre of our alliance-building in the region, we should focus on like—minded democracies. we need a strategic solidarity with like—minded democracies and also include other, more or less like—minded countries. and finally, we should not tiptoe around the elephant in the room, which is the prc’s aggressive policy in the indo-pacific region, responsible for increasing tensions, be that on the himalayan borders with india or in the south china sea. we have to call a spade a spade and we have to make clear that taiwan is also, for us, a democratic partner that we will not give up on.
mr president, the anti-china policy proposals coming out of the us state department in recent years are alarming. there are a growing number of influential policymakers who are openly planning a war with china. the report before us calls for the eu to copy the us and nato and support the creation of a new anti-china alliance with australia, new zealand, japan, south korea. the council on foreign relations, the carnegie endowment, heritage foundation, hudson institute and the brookings institution have all been promoting similar policy proposals in recent months. one recent book written by a cfr member openly calls for military attacks on the chinese mainland with the aim of countering chinese economic influence in south—east asia. this report before us is further evidence of the dominance of the us and nato over policy formulation in the eu. we should be cooperating with china, not planning another war to protect the interests of western financial capital. and keep in mind that china’s military spend is still only one third of that of the us, and china hasn’t bombed anyone in 40 years.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mr mcallister on his comprehensive report. the indo-pacific is a huge, densely populated region that is economically and politically central to the world today. the european union cannot be indifferent to what is happening in the indo-pacific, given our ties to this part of the world, whose stability, prosperity, security and connectivity have an impact on us. we are seeing how the biden administration is betting on relaunching its presence in the region through the so-called "indo-pacific economic framework", just like china, which these days is also trying to increase its influence through new initiatives in the pacific islands. in the indo-pacific there are a number of related countries which are very important to the european union. i am thinking, for example, of south korea, australia and japan, with which we have important economic and political links. the region also includes countries such as china and india. at a time when all attention is focused on the war in ukraine, i cannot help but express my disappointment at the attitude of china and india and their abstention from the united nations resolutions on russian aggression. the russian aggression against ukraine is a very serious violation of the basic principles of international law. countries such as china, a permanent member of the security council, a global power, or india cannot be indifferent: in this war, there is no room for neutrality. as a member of the committee on fisheries, i want to stress that the union must strengthen its cooperation with the coastal countries in order to reduce illegal fishing and overfishing in the indo-pacific region.
mr president, i think it is incredible how in a very few, short years the eu has gone from not doing geopolitics to an absolute frenzy in it. and the report calls for cooperation with nato, quad, aukus, all to deal with what it describes as a lack of an overarching regional security order in the indo-pacific. china’s economic and political influence in its own geographic neighbourhood is described as a security challenge. it urges the eu to prepare a strategy that would allow us to react against china. it talks about increasing our joint efforts in capability development, building up eu military power to be a credible security actor in the region, and all of this to protect our security interests. could we ever open an atlas and could it tell me what is it about europe that entitles us to speak this way about an entire region of the world with 60% of the world’s population as if it belonged to us, as if it was still a colonial backyard of europeans. this isn’t the 19th century. the european union isn’t in a position to boss around the rest of the world. we really seriously need a change in direction.
i am just wondering, commissioner: what impact assessments have been carried out in the farm to fork strategy to ensure that we will have a sustainable food industry in the years ahead, if we are to reduce and bring forward this regulation with regard to the sustainable use of pesticides regulation, which i very much support? we do have to have the research, the innovation, around the alternatives, like bios, like organics, but also even in the context of genetically modified. and i know that we in this house, in previous times, have had major discussions on this particular issue. but we fail to come to a consensus. we fail to understand the science or to accept the science. so i’m just wondering, have we carried out impact assessments? do we know that the alternatives will be there immediately? and what other impacts could it have on the cost of food, the drop in yields and production by farmers because they are not able to put chemical pesticides on crops? so, particularly in view of escalating food costs, inflationary pressures, this is a significant issue and we have to give assurance and clarity to the agricultural sector, the farmers, but also the consumers, not only in terms of the safety of the products, but the cost of the product as well.
so i welcome that, commissioner, but i do believe that we actually have to have the publications of these impact assessments in advance of us actually making fundamental decisions around how we farm, how we produce food and how we make sure it’s safe, right throughout the process to the tables in homes across europe. because we simply cannot hope that there will be some replacements, we have to insist that there will be. so, we do need to see the impact assessments on the potential drops in yields, the potential spikes in food, but also in what we actually intend to replace these chemical pesticides with.
member of the commission. – no, i don’t think it was a question, it was more an added explanation. but it is important here to say that exactly the cap can be used to finance this transition into these different systems of agriculture. and the upcoming sud revision is going to be very much linked to the cap synergies. so i think this is correctly the way forward.
member of the commission. – thank you for the question. well, first of all, let me just say that the proposal for the sustainable use of pesticides will be looking at placing targets – i believe strongly that targets are important. this is about reducing the use of chemical pesticides where possible. we are also working through this on a revision on a range of supporting measures, including what we can put to support others on the market of less hazardous pesticides. but here there will be different starting points for the different member states, because i think that this is something that we have to recognise. the farm to fork pesticides targets have been established based on the extensive experience that we have on the development of the existing harmonised risk indicator. it makes it clear that the approach will take into account the different starting points and the differences and improvements potential in the member states. so we will be looking at that. but i believe that this is the approach we need to go forward with, because if we want to deliver on what citizens are expecting of us – to reduce pesticide use – all member states will have to make an effort. but we will have different starting points for different member states.
member of the commission. – the revision of the sustainable use directive from the very beginning was very clear that it would have targets, but that we would be taking into account the different starting points of member states. i think that this is necessary in order for us to be able to move forward. this revision is necessary so that we protect the biodiversity, protect the environment and protect human health. we are working, as i said, on a wide range of measures in order to be able to put this into effect. so we are committed to all the ‘farm to fork’ targets. i have said this from the beginning; i will keep on repeating it if i must.
mr president, if you make a smoothie with kiwi, pear or cherry, for example, you are not only getting enough fibre and vitamins, but also an unhealthy cocktail of pesticides, which are increasingly made up of the most harmful agricultural poisons. these poisons should have been banned long ago. however, recent research has shown that they are being used more and more. apart from the dangers of individual agricultural toxins, the effects of toxins are still not assessed in conjunction. this is something the commission should have done ten years ago. when will agricultural toxins finally be assessed cumulatively? when will the most harmful and dangerous agricultural poisons finally be banned?
member of the commission. – the commission's evaluation of the pesticides legislation showed that the work on developing the methodology for the cumulative risk assessment for pesticide residues has been more complex than was initially expected, and that this work definitely needs to be accelerated. now as for the risk assessment, in 2020, efsa delivered two reports assessing the cumulative risks of combined exposure to pesticide residues, and recently published its prospective scenarios for establishing maximum residue levels for pesticides based on the cumulative risk assessment methodology. the commission and efsa have prepared an action plan to speed up the work on further developing the methodology in order to cover other target organs and to gradually implement it into regulatory practice. so the work is continuing and it is considered to be of the highest priority.
president, commissioner, thank you for your answers. the commission considers that the assessment of cumulative effects is a complex matter and that it may take a long time before it is introduced. if we really want to protect consumers from the cocktail effect, we can do two things: allow only one pesticide per crop or inform consumers directly about the pesticides used through labels. is the commission prepared to do so until the cumulative effects can be properly assessed?
commissioner kyriakides, please.
yes, thank you. i will try in english then. as long as the cumulative effects cannot be assessed – and it will take some time and it is complex, i heard – in the meantime, to protect consumers, are you willing to allow only one pesticide per crop to prevent a cocktail effect? or, another possibility to protect consumers is to fully inform them through the label. so are you willing to put all the pesticides that were used on a specific crop, on the label?
member of the commission. – first of all, the protection of consumers’ health is, of course, the highest priority. it’s not something that is disputable, and we’re working through ‘farm to fork’ to ensure that consumers have access to all the information needed. that is done in a variety of ways throughout the farm to fork strategy, because we believe that having informed consumers is the best way forward and we need also to educate consumers. we mustn’t forget that it’s not only about educating farmers, because farmers are also consumers, but educating consumers as well. now, in the eu, as i’m sure you know, food labelling is covered by specific rules, and residues are not considered as ingredients for labelling purposes. in addition, we have a monitoring report by efsa, for 2020, and more than 94% of the samples that were then analysed for pesticides did not contain any residues, or residues below the legally permitted levels. so the available data that we have indicates that the food placed on the eu market is safe about consumers, and very stringent controls are carried out by the enforcement authorities of member states. our work continues, will continue, and will always continue, to be based on science. it is not about the cost; it is sometimes about the scientific complexity, and the eu has some of the strictest systems in place in the world, i would think, in terms of this.
madam president, commissioner, to reduce the use of pesticides we must - and you have said this - put into law mandatory reduction targets at member state level. but we also need to identify the substances that will be targeted first and we need to ban the most harmful substances, especially when they are listed as candidates for substitution. will the commission oblige member states to include in their national action plans a plan for the substitution of substances, starting with the most toxic ones? if so, how soon? beyond reducing the use of pesticides in agriculture, other measures could be taken, such as banning pesticides in public spaces, in children's playgrounds. this is already the case in belgium and france, while in other member states the use of such pesticides is still within these areas. are you considering banning these pesticides in public spaces?
member of the commission. – i think this is a very important issue, as everything else, but it is a very important issue for our citizens. we are considering prohibiting the use of pesticides in sensitive areas, such as certain areas which are used by the general public: parks, playgrounds, areas where there are ecologically sensitive areas such as natura 2000 sites. because our whole aim is to protect human health and protect the environment. and there is no reason to use potentially dangerous substances in areas that are used by citizens, especially those which are most vulnerable, which are our children.
commissioner, i also wanted to ask you a question. this is about the use of these chemicals by the public sector in public spaces, but these chemicals are also used by private households, which are equally destructive of biodiversity. are you also considering restrictive measures in this case?
member of the commission. – we aim to reduce the use of pesticides across the board – i think you’re talking about the non-agricultural use of pesticides. we aim to reduce the use of pesticides across the board. for example, in the upcoming sustainable use of pesticides directive, we want to reflect on the ways and the clear wish that we see coming from society not to use pesticides in areas such as playgrounds and parks. so we are aiming to reduce the use of pesticides across the board.
member of the commission. – yes, we tend to bring forward this revision before the summer, as we have said. i want to thank you for raising the issue to do with pollinators, and the importance of that. as you know, it was at my request in june last year that the majority of agriculture ministers supported, in the council, a specific protection goal for the protection of bees. of course, we need to do further work on this in order to be able to have the protection goal as well for bumblebees and solitary bees, because we do not have the scientific evidence yet. but the proposal that we are putting forward is to have the highest level of protection. in terms of the directive that we’re putting through, it will share the same objectives as the current legislation, which is to protect biodiversity. but of course, we will be doing this in a way that it can be better implemented, putting specific targets. so thank you for that.
member of the commission. – yes, we want to promote more sustainable farming with the smarter use of inputs. and, of course, in order to be able to move towards more sustainable food systems, we need to, as you say, unlock the potential of new technologies and alternative approaches to farming. for example, we can have precision farming. these technologies must be made available and affordable for farmers. and when we achieve this, it can only be, as i said before, a win-win situation for farmers and the environment. now, you mentioned the new genomic techniques, if i understood correctly from the interpretation, we are committed to act in this field given the potential of new genomic techniques to contribute to sustainability objectives. however, we need to take the necessary steps in order to have a robust impact assessment, including a very wide consultation process and a legislative proposal, which is what you ask, if appropriate, will be then put forward in view of the impact assessment. this could be tabled following the impact assessment and the consultation before the summer of next year.
member of the commission. – what we are trying to do through farm to fork is not to punish anyone. what we want to do is move towards a direction, a direction that will serve health, environment, sustainability and food safety. i think that we can all agree that this is crucial and that the price of inaction is much greater than the way we’re going to move forward. and there will be there will be targets. we will be taking into consideration the starting points of member states in order to be able to move forward. and i just want to say again that we will be supporting farmers through the transition of the cap and of course need to respect those who find more challenges. so let’s at least try and agree that we have a common direction in this. and this is not about punishing. the only ones who will be punished if we do not act are going to be future generations.
i have to say, madam president, yes, commissioner, you believe in genetic engineering. but do you also see that in south america and the united states, the use of pesticides has increased in genetic engineering? do you really think that the new genetic engineering will do the opposite? what is sustainable use of pesticides? sustainable use of pesticides is a concept that doesn't work for me. we need to reduce pesticide use. but what does sustainable mean? the loss of biodiversity is really dramatic. so, can you really reduce pesticides by 50% against the enormous resistance of the agricultural lobby? are you sure you can get a majority in the commission for that? there is considerable resistance, as i hear. one question about the approval process: for years, it was said that neonicotinoids are completely safe. and then after 20 years, you realize, no, the opposite is true: neonicotinoids are extremely dangerous. how do you want to guarantee that the future approval processes for pesticides are such that we can hope for safety? the commission's intention to re-authorize glyphosate is a scandal, because all the scientific studies show that glyphosate is also toxic.
member of the commission. – the question was whether we are committed and whether the commission will be able to move forward. i have said it and i will repeat it again. we have a farm to fork strategy. we’ve put it forward. it’s a part of our european green deal. it has many, many pillars and strategies, and we are fully committed to its implementation. actually, farm to fork has as a title – i was reading about it today – ‘our health, our planet, our future’. i think that says it all. in terms of the revision of the sustainable use of pesticides, i have said that we aim to come forward with that before the summer. the targets are there. the targets are necessary. it’s not about banning the use of chemical pesticides, but it’s about reducing the use where possible and where there are no viable alternatives. so we are working on a wide range of supporting measures to be able to achieve this and i am sure that once we put forward our proposal, we will have your support.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, do you think the member states will go along with you? for years the member states have refused to accept the reduction that is now actually envisaged in integrated agriculture. there are no reports from the member states, and there are no plans to reduce pesticides in the member states. so you believe that the member countries are playing along? - you mean it?
member of the commission. – curiously, yes. i’m going to, definitely. i believe in consultation; i believe in being able to talk; i believe that we have a good working relationship with member states. we’ve managed this when we were talking about changing the goals for protection of bees; we got there. so it’s about consultation; it’s about exchanging. in the end, i believe that we all want the same thing. so as long as we have the supporting targets in place, as long as we can support our farmers as well, and we aim to do this, i believe, yes.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the russian invasion of ukraine has made us realise how, for too long, we have taken food security for granted. unfortunately, that is not the case. putin has created a crisis, he is creating a crisis, with access to food in the mediterranean basin, undermining the geopolitical balance and creating the conditions for a resumption of the migratory waves that the union has already struggled with during the arab spring. this is an extremely delicate area which, however, the first drafts of new legislation on plant protection products seem to ignore completely, commissioner. in these drafts the commission itself estimates significant impacts on european production, resulting both from the increase in prices for our consumers and from the increase in imports from third countries. this will not guarantee that our sustainability standards are met, and it will not provide our farmers with a viable alternative to using chemicals. as many other colleagues have said, commissioner, do you not think that the time has come to break the deadlock and put the new sustainable biotechnology legislation on the table? so we can finally reduce the chemistry.
member of the commission. – the russian aggression of ukraine has called for targeted short—term measures, and we have been working at full speed as a commission to a very rapidly developing situation. the war in ukraine, combined with a price surge, has brought forward the links of geopolitics, globalisation and climate change and food security. however, the war in ukraine does not remove the fact that climate change, biodiversity loss and scarcity are some of the biggest threats facing humanity in the next decades. and the cost of inaction hugely outweighs the costs related to transition. so, we are committed to the green deal and farm to fork and its ambitions, and we will be working very closely in order to ensure that we are going to be able to support and deal with the fall—back of this war as much as possible. and let me just say here that we have taken a number of steps already to ensure that we secure as much as possible the movement of food. for example, we adopted solidarity corridors recently in order to enable grain exports from ukraine. so we will be moving with this as much as possible.
i thank you for your answer, commissioner, but my question is this: does he not think it is a contradiction if the commission, on the one hand, wants to increase european agricultural production - and we have temporarily suspended the ecological focus area, that is the compulsory set-aside of 5% of arable land - but then, on the other hand, comes up with a proposal that will reduce european production? i think there's some inconsistency that needs to be addressed.
could you sum up your question very briefly, since we did not have an interpreter just now?
commissioner, can you hear me now? i would like to ask you very briefly why the commission has temporarily suspended the ecological focus area, that is to say the de facto obligation to set aside 5% of arable land to increase european production, and why it is trying to reduce european production with this measure announced on plant protection products. because that is the impact assessment that the commission's proposal itself presents.
member of the commission. – yes, thank you for that. i’m sorry i didn’t have the translation before. no, it’s not going in the opposite direction. in fact, we’re not going to be banning the use of pesticides. we’re looking to reduce them, as i have said, through the sustainable use of pesticides regulation, and we will be working towards this in order to be able to achieve what we have already said. i just wanted to say here that in order to do this, we need to have the systematic application of integrated pest management. this must become the norm. of course, the war in ukraine has necessarily made us pause on some actions and take targeted short-term measures, but it is not a reason not to go forward.
madam president, commissioner, in the debate we are having here today, there is a good deal of talk about the need to reduce the use of pesticides while safeguarding the interests of consumers. the use of pesticides is linked to the phenomena of increasing concentration of agricultural production and intensification of the production model, which in countries such as portugal over the last 30 years have led to the loss of hundreds of thousands of farms, mainly small and family-run, and the corresponding jobs. on the day when the 60th anniversary of the cap was celebrated here in this house, it is important to recall the consequences of the common agricultural policy in these phenomena, but also in the reduction of biological diversity in agricultural production, the abandonment of traditional species, and the standardization and standardization of production. a path that reverts in favour of the multinational agro-food companies, with the complicity of the european commission and the eu, favouring intensive overproduction, monoculture, the dissemination of gmos, often associated with increased resistance to pesticides, imposing absolute dependence on the multinationals on the producers. is the commission prepared to question this course?
member of the commission. – as i have said, we need to maintain viable and competitive agriculture. and with the support under the cap, we can move to more environmentally friendly farming with reduced inputs that are going to be more resilient to shock. and the current crisis has reinforced our conviction that the resilience of our food systems needs a fundamental change and reorientation of eu agriculture food systems towards sustainability. so, i believe that the ambitious farm to fork strategy goals are more relevant now than ever. we need to decrease our overreliance on inputs, including pesticides and fertilisers through innovation, agroecology and the adoption of best practices. and we will be doing this while supporting, of course, farmers through the cap. we are committed to making this transition to sustainable food systems successful.
madam president, commissioner, i realise that it is difficult, after so many questions, to repeat the same content many times over and the evidence, finally, that there is less availability on the part of the commission to actually question what is necessary. because reducing the use of pesticides means questioning the production model, directing support to small and mediumsized farms, family farming, and giving value to traditional production methods and to traditional and indigenous species, which are better adapted to the conditions of each country and which ensure that they are less dependent on the use of this type of plant protection products by the multinational companies in the sector. the question is, commissioner, whether there will be support available specifically for this subsector, small and mediumsized production, to achieve these aims.
member of the commission. – i believe i have already answered that, and i can just reiterate our commitment to move forward with ‘farm to fork’ as part of the green deal. as i have said, we will be moving forward.
madam president, commissioner, i believe and advocate that the objectives outlined in the meadow-to-meadow and biodiversity strategies are fundamental to setting the path, the course towards more sustainable agri-food systems. and in this sense they should also, of course, serve to stimulate the emergence of innovative and environmentally friendly solutions, such as biologically active substances or the promotion of natural methods of pest control. and so i ask, in the context of this new legislative proposal, how is the need to speed up the authorisation process for substances which are low-risk in agriculture and with full respect for the safety of public health and the environment being balanced, or whether it will be balanced.
member of the commission. – yes, we’re working towards that in order to make it more agile and to be able to move towards approval more quickly.
madam president, i am sorry, but i would like to ask a second question, if i may, as my colleagues may.
you'll get it, but hold on to your speaking time, because we're running out of minutes, please.
i would like to see equal treatment and it's a very quick question, since the commissioner's answer was also very quick, okay? it is very quick and i would like to ask, if i may, to what extent this new legislation is equating the issue of integrated protection, first of all with greater homogeneity of integrated protection rules in the context of the european union. i should also like to say that i was not entirely satisfied with the first question, but i understand that at this stage we are all very tired and have little time to respond.
member of the commission. – no, it’s my responsibility to give you answers. so i will come back to your first question. as you have said, we need to encourage the use of low—risk and biological alternatives. as i have said from the commission side, we will be expediting the phasing out of the more hazardous pesticides. but together with this, we will be streamlining – and this is what i maybe didn’t say correctly – and speeding up the approval and procedures for the low—risk products, because the two have to go hand-in-hand. we have already promoted the micro—organisms with concrete proposals, and we have put forward guidance on semi-chemicals and botanicals. efforts are also needed from member states ˗ and i want to say this here ˗ to speed up their assessments at national level in order to make these alternatives available to farmers. we, from our side, will do everything possible to do this, but we also need to have the commitment from the member states so that these alternatives reach farmers. if we want to see these alternatives reach the market, resources must be made available for this. for your second question, if i understood it correctly, integrated pest management is at the very core of the proposal.
madam president, commissioner, the commission is planning to reduce the use of pesticides by 50% by 2030, especially the most dangerous ones, and i welcome this. but it is also responsible for ensuring the proper application of regulation 1107 of 2009 on the placing of pesticides on the market and, above all, of the case law of the court of justice of the european union of october 2019 which requires that an assessment of the long-term toxicity of pesticides be carried out in their complete commercial formulation. full commercial wording... this is not the case today. what does the commission intend to do? secondly, and finally, why is the commission not considering making the presence of pesticide residues in foodstuffs apparent, in particular through food labelling? i have no further questions.
member of the commission. – as we have said before, the consumers in the eu enjoy the highest protection in the world – i believe your question was on the maximum residue levels – and thanks to our very strict regulation, any pesticide residues in our food, whether produced in the eu or imported, are as low as needed to protect consumer safety. eu rules on pesticide residues apply to all substances because we want to have consumer safety protected. i welcome all the reports that we have from stakeholders because they allow us to have the information that we need to protect our citizens. these are very complex matters, and we owe clarity to our citizens. what is essential is that we know that the residue levels are above or below our eu levels, and we follow very closely efsa’s recommendations – the report that it publishes every year on pesticide residues. so i believe that this is the way forward, when we are able to assess any of the residues that need to be looked at.
commissioner, i would like to take up my second question: why is the commission not considering the possibility of indicating the presence of pesticide residues in foodstuffs on food labelling? i am talking about legal residues, not about exceeding the standards. i am talking about all the residues: when there are residues, why is it not mentioned on the food label?
member of the commission. – as i have already said before, the eu labelling is under a different legislation. we agree with the court ruling – because you mentioned earlier the court ruling – member states do the assessment for pesticide residues, and we will be looking at this.
member of the commission. – the european food safety authority publishes each year a report on pesticide residues in food products, which is the most comprehensive report on this issue for the entire of the eu. and samples are analysed under an eu coordinated approach. and there are national control programmes in place. in case of non-compliance, the member states take the necessary action, such as withdrawing or recalling the products. and i believe that we have already said that we place extremely high standards as the eu in order to protect our citizens’ health.
member of the commission. – i have already, i think, said that the data that we have is that the food placed on the eu market is safe for consumers. we have very stringent checks done by the authorities of the member states, and the consumers in the eu enjoy some of the highest levels of protection in the world. this is thanks to very strict regulations of any pesticide residues in our food, whether it’s produced in the eu or whether it is imported, and this is as strict as it needs to be in order to ensure consumer safety.
commissioner, the european chemicals agency’s risk assessment committee on glyphosate said last week that it is not justified to conclude that it causes cancer. however, these findings contradict those of other institutions, including the international agency for research on cancer, which classified glyphosate as probably carcinogenic to humans as far back as 2015. in an opinion published on 10 january, the french national commission on ethics and alerts in public health and the environment recommended a review of the process used to arrive at the expert opinion on the re—authorisation of glyphosate. the president of that commission has told le monde that the renewable assessment report made a drastic selection, excludes most of the studies on glyphosate published in international scientific literature and mainly retains those provided by the industry. are you concerned that the european chemical agency’s risk assessment committee has ignored scientific advice by independent scientists on glyphosate’s carcinogenic dangers?
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for presenting the report. i consider it extremely important, although i am a resident of an inland state. transparency is important, and in this respect it is certainly necessary to call on the member states to respect the right to information and to allocate quotas in the light of economic and social criteria. so this certainly has to have our full support. but i also wanted to stress, as a member of the envi committee, the importance of the sustainability of the overall fisheries, because if, after the raids of some vessels, there are completely dead zones in our seas, then there will be no allocation of quotas at all. so the things the rapporteur mentioned, the trawls, the many predatory practices in industrial fishing, all of these have to be dealt with in the european union.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mrs roose, pietro bartolo and the other rapporteurs on this article 17 report, because i think they have done a great job. what is said in that report is the reality. in other words, it is not known what criteria the member states use to determine the allocation of quotas. and a very clear example is the bluefin tuna recovery plan in my country: the allocation of quotas during that recovery plan ultimately led to the smaller fisheries, the artisanal fisheries, being harmed, especially the minor crafts. therefore, it is necessary to add transparency to the system. it is not possible that every year in december a tac is drawn up and distributed among the member states and we do not know what the criteria are. so we need a much more transparent system and one that clearly benefits small-scale fishing, not just speeches.
madam president, it is only possible to speak in a coherent and realistic way about the criteria for allocating fishing opportunities from one state to another by taking account of the principle of relative stability enshrined in article 16 of regulation (eu) no 1380/2013. we therefore call on the commission to draw up a report which provides data which we do not have today in order to better understand the procedures of each state and the diversity of the sector. non-discrimination between sectors and the use of historicist criteria for allocation is the most social, economic and environmental mechanism known because all fishermen are bound by the same rules and conditions. this promotes stability, avoids clashes between sectors and makes clear the dependence of each fleet on the state of resources. we therefore support the role of fishermen's associations and organisations in managing quotas and we oppose the promotion of generational change by age discrimination in the reallocation of quotas. these are more urgent measures than the establishment of a public register, since transparency is not possible without compliance with them. there is no data at the moment, but there is no legal authority to require it, so as long as we do not do this and the rules are not changed, identifying and disseminating best practice is the right thing to do.
madam president, the greens in the european parliament have long been fighting hard to get this report on fairness and sustainability in fisheries on the agenda. simply put, we cannot have fairness in fisheries when eu policies encourage the concentration of fishing opportunities in the hands of a few big players. we cannot have sustainability while the eu prioritises industrial fishing methods despite their environmental and social impacts. in ireland this is evident, where only 2% of the mackerel quota is allocated to low—impact fishers who often have to stop fishing by mid—year, having met their catch limit. in the face of biodiversity collapse, overfishing and rapidly warming oceans, the eu must prioritise environmental and social benefits over industrial profits and fisheries. the eu must get serious about enforcing article 17 of the common fisheries policy and implement the findings of this excellent report by rapporteur caroline roose.
madam president, the discussion taking place here today has a fair background. how can better access to resources be ensured for small-scale fisheries? the sick form of solutions which can, in fact, have a perverse and unintended effect. the solutions will not be found in the centralisation of fisheries management promoted by the common fisheries policy. the commission has also been very active in the area of fisheries, and has been very active in the area of fisheries policy. improving collective access to resources requires, in addition to proximity management, that each small-scale artisanal and coastal fishing vessel is able to access resources in safety and under appropriate operating conditions. it requires support for fleet renewal, intervention in production costs and in the marketing chain to ensure fair prices for production, enhancing the incomes of the sector and its workers.
madam president, i think there’s a certain irony that we’re discussing this today when we celebrated the 60th anniversary of the cap. because while some farmers benefited from cap, albeit not small family farms, in an irish context, our entire fishing sector was sacrificed for membership of the eec at the time, and of course brexit has affected it even more, where ireland has been disproportionately hit in terms of the percentage reduction in quota that we’ve achieved as a result of trying to get together the trade agreement. and we have here now an industry on its knees, coastal communities crying out for assistance, no future for young people in fishing, and what funds were made available by the eu were really largely given for decommissioning boats. the common fisheries policy urgently needs to be reformed, it needs to be revised, but in the meantime, the industry needs help. we talk an awful lot about solidarity; well, the irish fishing industry certainly needs it. it needs cooperation from bilateral agreements, it needs quota redistribution, sustainability and a favouring of small fishermen.
madam president, ireland’s share of fishing quotas under the common fisheries policy is a scandal. but this report is specifically with how member states themselves allocate the shares they receive from the eu under the cfp. article 17 of the cfp was introduced in the 2013 reform. it requires that member states allocate fishing opportunities using transparent and objective criteria, including those of an environmental, social and economic nature. this report highlights most member states have failed to implement article 17 in any form of a good way. in ireland, the allocation of pelagic quota is hugely unfair on the inshore fleet. just 2% of ireland’s mackerel quota is assigned to vessels under 15 metres, while 98% is assigned to only 50 large boats. this is not a failure of the eu, but of the irish department of agriculture, food and the marine. very modest increases could make a massive difference to an awful lot of boats and families and communities around the coast of ireland.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms roose, for this report, which is an important analysis of the current state of implementation of article 17 of the common fisheries policy regulation. the commission welcomes this report, which includes important findings on the implementation of this crucial provision of the common fisheries policy. as you will know, article 17 of the common fisheries policy regulation empowers member states to allocate national fishing opportunities. this means that member states have the right to establish their own criteria to suit the specific needs of their fishing sectors. the criteria, including those of an environmental, social and economic nature, must be transparent and objective. they may include, among others, the impact of fishing on the environment, the history of compliance, the contribution to the local economy and historic catch levels. according to the same article 17, within the fishing opportunities allocated to them, member states must endeavour to provide incentives to fishing vessels deploying selective fishing gear or using fishing techniques with reduced environmental impact. this leaves member states a large discretion as regards the criteria they apply and the weight they give to them. in 2019, the commission carried out the study on the ownership and exclusive rights of fisheries means of production. this study suggested the need for greater transparency across the member states regarding the ultimate beneficiaries and their allocation of quotas. the study also stressed the need for greater understanding of the processes and involved actors. this better understanding would then allow to know whether any further steps are required. transparency is indeed crucial and therefore the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, has been proactive in seeking to ensure the correct application of article 17 of the common fisheries policy regulation. we requested member states, in 2020, to provide information on their allocation methods of fishing opportunities. all the information received from member states until now has been used by the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries in its 2020 report on the social dimension of the common fisheries policy. once the additional outstanding information from member states will be available, this report will be updated and we will use this information for the upcoming commission report on the functioning of the common fisheries policy. overall, i can say that the commission welcomes ms roose’s report on the implementation of article 17 of the common fisheries policy regulation, as it provides a basis for a constructive dialogue with member states on the use of transparent and objective criteria, including environmental, social and economic criteria for allocating the fishing opportunities. moreover, the commission wishes to achieve a better common understanding on the application of article 17 amongst all member states, clarifying outstanding discrepancies. the commission will continue to facilitate the exchange of good practices amongst member states regarding the successful use of social and environmental criteria in particular. this report by rapporteur roose, along with the report of the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries on the social dimension, comes timely ahead of the preparation of the 2022 commission report on the functioning of the common fisheries policy. therefore i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs again for this very important piece of work.
this conversation is over. the vote will be tomorrow.
the last item on the agenda is the following monday evening, with a minute's speaking time in accordance with rule 172. now i really ask that one minute be one minute.
mr president, since the beginning of the year turkey has started an escalation of its aggressive policy with fake news and baseless accusations against greece. it is systematically violating the territorial integrity of my country and the sovereign rights of the islands, even by making false maps. the tension that president erdogan is seeking includes, among other things, the exploitation of desperate migrants, who are being sent en masse by sea and land through illegal smuggling networks. from january to april of this year, 15,650 irregular migrants were detected in evros, while the corresponding period in 2021 was only 1,400. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the baltic sea is not worsened. the european union must respond effectively this time. there are ways, provided there is the political will.
mr president, europe is short of workers. malta, countries, has a severe shortage of workers. we have been waiting for the commission for years to come up with proposals for legal migration routes because we want our economies to continue to grow, to strengthen and to lift up the workers with them. however, it was only last april that they were published. in some countries, 75% of businesses say they need more workers, while unemployment is virtually non-existent. after two years of a pandemic, establishments are having to close for a number of days or else shut down part of their operations. this is the reality of many european countries today. as seen in these photos in rotterdam, yesterday, or else in wied il-għajn, malta, as well as in munich, germany. as a socialist negotiator on legal migration, i call for faster actions to have more streamlined, common and transferable procedures in the european union. with a maximum set of delays less than the four months we have today, while, at the same time, we want to see that all workers are protected from exploitation and have adequate wages and rights.
madam president, senegal has breached the fisheries agreement it signed with the union. it has put a few long-distance pipeline vessels, which operate with sustainable means and under strict control, on the verge of bankruptcy. the licences they paid for in january have finally been signed, and they have lost more than a million euros that they now need to get back to sea after five months of forced mooring. they would have obtained them, as always, by fishing in conditions of maximum environmental and social sustainability. and they would have shared value and prosperity with local industry, buying goods and services there and maintaining the contracts, under international labour organization standards, of about 300 people who had to be laid off. these fishermen, who have rightly felt abandoned, deserve recognition, respect and support to continue two decades of impeccable human and professional career thousands of kilometres from home. a hard work that is recognized in the world is the mark of europe. i therefore call on the commissioner to activate the aid provided for in the european maritime and fisheries fund so that these sustainability entrepreneurs can get back to work.
madam president, so, summer is coming and with it, all the excitement of sun and sea swims. but, sadly, there’s not so much excitement in store for locals and visitors to beautiful bunmahon beach in waterford in ireland. some months ago, i joined local and national green party colleagues in highlighting appalling raw sewage pollutant impacting the river mahon at that beach where local wastewater systems have gone far beyond capacity. ireland has already been fined for lack of compliance under eu legislation, but bunmahon’s issues are not unique within the county or at national or european level. national legislation is adequate, but local agencies must be resourced to act now to avoid sanction and to address a vile situation that threatens local ecosystems, public health, summer tourism potential and the simple joy that children should be able to experience on safe trips to unpolluted beaches.
madam president, last week, president von der leyen said the only reason why we're certainly now at a full crisis is because of this brutal, unjustified war against ukraine. the war is brutal and all war is never justified, but it is not the cause of the food crisis. hunger and famine have been on the rise long before the current conflict. the war certainly hasn't helped. and now eu sanctions and blockades have made things worse. colonialism, international trade rules and agriculture and imf structural adjustment programmes have forced countries in the global south towards export-driven agriculture, leaving them totally vulnerable to shocks. the roots of this crisis run deep. the eu countries steal trillions from the global south each year through tax evasion, transfer mispricing, exploitative debt and aid arrangements, and france's colonial currency doesn't help. the eu continues to have such a devastating role in under developing the global south. it's reasonable to ask what has the most impact on vulnerable populations in so-called developing countries? climate system breakdown or having trade relations with the eu? as jason hickel keeps reminding us, the only thing developing countries are developing is the global north.
madam president, the 2022 nitrates derogation states that farmers who wish to plough grassland can only do so between 1 march and 31 may. reseeding is a very important component to increase grass production, but it is also very important to ensure that we comply with the farm to fork strategy and the biodiversity strategy in terms of increasing the uptake of clover planting and also multi-species swards. of course, at the same time as we are encouraging those uptakes of those particular plants like clover and multi-species swards, we at the same time ban clover-safe sprays which are there to ensure that the swards are clean of weeds and that we can actually have proper agricultural practices. so the point i’m trying to make, commissioner – and we made it earlier as well – is that we don’t seem to have joined—up thinking in terms of the farm to fork strategy or the biodiversity strategy, both at national and at european level. i would ask that in the context of those policies in the future, that they would be joined up, that they would address the challenges that farmers are facing, but also put in place measures to ensure there is uniformity at national and european level.
madam president, i wonder how many people here, or people who follow the media across europe, are aware of the urgency of the humanitarian catastrophe that is accelerating in afghanistan. where’s the focus on the announcement by the world food programme this week that they have to roll back on their commitment? they actually have to stop feeding the hungry so that they can concentrate on the starving. imagine: they know 18.7 million people need food, but they can only accommodate 10 million, condemning the rest to an agonising death. and why? because they haven’t got the money. even as the world spends billions on arms, they can’t muster usd 3.5 billion to save lives. during the war, the us spent usd 300 million a day for 20 years, but they can’t spend usd 300 a day for a fortnight to save lives. meanwhile, the borders of europe are closed. this is barbarism. so the next time we talk about european values, can we think about the bodies and the lives of these people of afghanistan? can we call now for a lifting of the sanctions, give them back their money and release money for aid to save lives, not kill them.
mr president, firstly, well done to mohammed, the rapporteur for the carbon border adjustment mechanism. i thought the commission’s proposals lacked ambition in terms of its timelines for phasing out free allowances and in terms of its scope. it also lacked fairness in its treatment of the least—developed countries. mohammed has done well to address some of these problems. least—developed countries are the least responsible for the climate crisis, yet the worst impacted by it. the two most widely discussed options to protect producers in these countries from the effects of the regulation are exemptions from the scope of the regulation and recycling of revenues generated by the regulation in order to help producers to decarbonise. i did find it incredible that the commission’s legislative proposal included neither option. exemptions on their own would risk leaving them stranded with carbon—intensive production methods. the use of cbam revenues therefore is crucial to allow ldcs to decarbonise their supply chains. the commission’s proposal suggests that the idea of just transition should stop at the eu borders, which is disappointing.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. does the automobile industry in europe have a future? we are deciding today on nothing more, nothing less. many of you are thinking of the big car companies, but you are forgetting the many small and mediumsized companies, especially in the supplier industry. unfortunately, over half a million people will lose their jobs. and who is responsible for this social stripping? socialists, greens and some liberals in this house want the incinerator to be banned for ideological reasons. of course, this is tangible and can be marketed as a headline, but the reality is different: emissions are only shifted from transport to energy production - whatever. the rigid focus on the electric car brings us new dependencies, for example, from china. and hundreds of thousands of jobs are at stake. we cannot go down that road as the epp. we have therefore tabled amendments which bring together climate protection and technological openness. this means, and i ask you to listen carefully, almost complete electrification of new cars from 2035, but also a doorway to other carbon-neutral technologies. we need ambitious reduction targets and flexibility for the market and for customers. in short, we do not need bans. i therefore ask you to support our amendments to the 90% reduction target and a voluntary credit system for synthetic fuels. i think we can then combine climate action and political realism, as the vice-president has just said.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, madam minister dear chrysoula we are all bound in this house by the european climate law. we voted for it. what does this law say? it says we have to be carbon neutral by 2050. to be carbon neutral in 2050, we have to stop selling cars that weren't carbon neutral 15 years ago. why 15 years earlier ? because a car spends on average 15 years on european roads. so if we don't stop selling cars that are not zero co2 emissions by 2035, it means that we can't meet the paris agreement, that we can't meet european climate law. and if we don't do it for cars tomorrow, next year, when we have to do it for trucks, it will be the same debate and we will fail. then we'll have given up on doing that for the main co2-emitting sector. this means that climate neutrality, the paris agreement and compliance with european climate law will have been abandoned. that is what is at stake today, and we cannot compromise on this requirement. so we have to vote for 100% zero emissions by 2035. but of course we must also take account of the social issues. there are many employees who will find jobs in the electric battery. gigafactories are being set up all over europe to build electric batteries. we were not building any electric batteries three years ago, we're going to be the second largest producer of electric batteries in the world in a few years. that's zero-carbon innovation, and i'm surprised that the right wing is still in a completely backward-looking logic. but we'll also be accompanying the losers. we must not hide our faces: when we move from situation a to situation b, there are winners and there are losers. that is why this parliament will vote for the just transition fund for employees in the automobile industry, just as we voted for the just transition fund for employees affected, particularly in western europe, by the energy transition. this is balance, climate ambition, industrial ambition, social justice. that's why we need to vote for 100% zero emission vehicles by 2035.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the journey of a thousand miles begins with that first step. and today we take that step in moving towards a greener future for travel, with cleaner air, improved mobility and quality jobs. to do so, we must back a full phase-out of the internal combustion engine by 2035, with intermediate targets for 2027 and 2030. it is shameful that we didn’t secure a 2030 phase-out date. the influence of the car lobby on this law is obvious. a full and faster phase-out by 2035 is needed to keep the dream of 1.5 degrees alive. and of course, greener cars are no silver bullet for the climate challenges. we must invest in walking, in safe cycling, in micro-mobility and in quality and affordable buses and trains. and as commissioner timmermans said, electric cars are already cheaper to run and soon they will be cheaper to buy. so the time is now. we must seize this opportunity.
mr president, commissioner, contrary to what we have heard here, i believe that this package of objective 55 is the result of political responsibility for our international commitments, it is the result of political courage because the international context has not made us delay it, and i also believe that it is effective because it seeks actions and objectives in the hand of technology and science. a decarbonised europe will be a more competitive europe, better for workers, better for citizens. in relation to the carbon uptake by our soils, i think it places agriculture and forestry as a key agent for reduction. i hope that this parliament will not reduce the commission's ambition, but also that we will approve the new flexibility mechanism, so that we take account of the disruptions caused by climate change in many southern countries, but not only, and of course of natural disasters and catastrophes. i hope this gets approved tomorrow.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too wish for a healthy nature and clean air for my children and i believe that the "fit for 55" package will be approved. however, let me dwell a little on the regulation concerning combustion engines. we're talking about the specific date of 2035, and it's been said a few times. why not 2036? why not 2042? i think we should set realistic goals. we should actually be talking about this, because if we set this ambitious goal, we're actually going to stop all development and innovation of alternative fuels. and that would be a real shame for the trucking industry in particular. i think that innovation also takes time and cannot be determined from the table here in strasbourg or brussels.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the importance of this legislative package. the european union's climate policies will undergo major changes in the period ahead. these transformations must, however, take account of the current geopolitical reality and the reality of each country. the war in ukraine and the pandemic have shown us how vulnerable we are to various challenges. i would like to draw attention to the need to create mechanisms to enable the frontline sectors, agriculture or transport, or the forestry sector, to have adequate funding to achieve the objectives they have set themselves, but also to preserve jobs. commissioner timmermans, we cannot ask to do more with less money. let me be very clear about this. we know that agriculture and forestry play an important role in managing carbon and absorbing it. at the same time, production capacity must not be reduced at european level, and food security - and i stress this - food security must be ensured not only at european union level, as is sometimes falsely said by the european commission, but also at world level. finally, i would stress once again that if we are to be serious and credible in the eyes of the public, our ambitions must not be detached from the realities of our day.
mr president, we are faced with proposals which essentially safeguard the interests of the large economic groups by insisting on the perverse system of trading in emission allowances and extending it to other sectors, that is to say, to market solutions which standardise the right to pollute. solutions that will be paid for by the people and the workers. no, this is not the way! other policies are required in a normative, not market-based approach to emissions reduction, the effective promotion of public transport networks at affordable or free prices that promote collective transport, the substitution of imports by domestic production, promoting short supply chains, fostering complementarity rather than destructive competition between countries. the public control of the energy sector, ensuring transitions that respond to the interests of the people of each country, and rejecting the scandalous speculative spiral and the assault on the populations we see. the rejection of war, militarism and the arms industry. we do not expect any of this from you, mr timmermans, because the interests of the workers and the people are not what the eu serves.
mr president, in light of europe’s historic responsibility and its capacity to act, the eu must reduce its domestic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 65% by 2030 as compared to 1990 levels. to meet this, the effort sharing regulation needs to achieve at least 50% emissions reduction by 2030 compared to 2005 levels. the 40% reduction target for the effort sharing regulation proposed by the commission is too low, and crucially, there is no post-2030 framework or targets. well, commissioner, listening to all the debate in here today, i realise your job is not easy. the world is on fire. scientists have just told us plastics are in our blood. the un has warned of total societal collapse due to climate breakdown. yet president von der leyen and commissioner simson met with ceos of six fossil fuel companies recently, including shell, bp and total, on the same day that repowereu was released. we should understand that fossil fuel companies are terrorists.
madam president, as far as i’m concerned, the commission’s record on rule of law was pretty abysmal to begin with. but the decision to release the national recovery plan funds to poland, justified on the basis of the ludicrous charade of a meaningless bill put forward by the president to amend the disciplinary chamber, really takes the biscuit. but let us be honest about it, because contrary to all the claims from the commission of no compromise with rule of law, your record actually is one of consistent compromise in this area. you have been incredibly slow to begin with; when you do move, you move in a partisan way, correctly taking action against poland and hungary, but not taking action yes, against countries like spain, legitimising then those in poland and hungary who do want to continue with the status quo. and now this; it is an absolute joke. nothing has changed in terms of poland. this u-turn, unless reversed, will certainly go down as an historic red line crossed, with lasting repercussions.
madam president, i would like to commend the follow—up report of mr mcallister and madam nathalie loiseau on the common foreign, security and defence policy after the russian invasion of ukraine. there’s nothing much to say. we have the strategic compass that really clarifies our position, the european union position, on how we should form our future security and defence policy, we have the althea operation and we have the consequences of the war. in this parliament, i would like also to raise awareness that what we are lacking really is preventive diplomacy. preventive diplomacy is the key to resolve the issue. preventive diplomacy is the key to stop the crisis. for example, today we had a position on election financing in bosnia and herzegovina, for the future election. twenty—five years after the dayton peace agreement we still have half a sovereign country. there is no preventive diplomacy, as is happening with other frozen conflict areas. so please, dear colleagues, try to do preventive diplomacy. as somebody who has gone through war, i know that war does not resolve anything.
madam president, the russian invasion of ukraine is an act of aggression to forcefully revise the european security order. our response should continue to be united and firm against the specific aggressor, but also a time to move faster with the common foreign security and defence policy based on common rules and a common defence mechanism, as stated in the strategic compass – common rules, including international law, such as respect for unclos and the powers of the international criminal court charter. with common rules whether the criminal and the aggressors are russian troops in ukraine or turkish occupying troops in cyprus, it is a gross violation of international law and a crime against humanity requiring the same treatment and the same punishment.
madam president, the head of the african union calls for an end to sanctions because people in africa are dying and an mep comes in here and bemoans it. i have to say, the arrogance is striking! russia’s invasion was a godsend to the worst elements in european politics. nato’s dodged being obsolete, the arms manufacturers are getting blank checks and the eastern european far right got to bully the rest of europe into prolonging an unwinnable war against a nuclear-armed neighbour. but the 100 days of hysteria are dying down. fractures are emerging. slowly, too slowly, western europe is coming to its senses. scholz and draghi want to build peace. macron is against humiliating russia – he wants exit ramps. but the extremists in eastern europe, backed up by the united states, are happy to see europe wrecked in order to undermine russia. we don’t need more of this lunacy. we need a change of tack, not to deepen it. we need to end this death-drive. we need diplomacy, de-escalation and multilateralism.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, we take note of and very much welcome your continuous support for the development of the eu’s security and defence. we will continue to strongly support ukraine, including significant military and political support to end this war. we share your sense of urgency. with a war at our borders, we need to be more determined and more united in our efforts than ever. many of you referred to the importance of bringing forward eu security and defence. let me assure you that this progress is well underway, as is the work on the strategic compass, but also across many policy areas, including missions and operations, rapid deployment capacity, eu-nato and industry. again, [inaudible] has political priority for the high representative and for member states. thank you again for your report and recommendations. they will certainly provide useful input in the debates held in the council. we remain at your disposal for the exchanges with you on progress on a regular basis.
rapporteur. – mr president, since natalie loiseau is not in the plenary i guess it’s up to me to sum up this debate. i would, first of all, like to thank all of you for an open, constructive and fruitful debate. we heard a lot of support and praise from the centre of the european parliament and some criticism from the very far left and the very far right. i would like to share the observation of many meps, and i listened carefully, that we as a european parliament are sending a strong message with this recommendation. the european union indeed has to make genuine progress in the foreign policy and defence cooperation at the eu level, and this should include establishing a defence union with more ambitious, short, medium and long term objectives. as several colleagues mentioned in tonight’s debate, the european union needs to implement the concrete actions laid down in the strategic compass, which would serve as a starting point for implementing common eu defence. finally, the european union needs to achieve strategic sovereignty and increase its ability to act in today’s moment of geopolitical redefinition. colleagues, russia’s war against ukraine is not only attack on ukraine, it is indeed an attack on the entire peace and security architecture and order in europe. for this reason, for this reason, it is high time that we enhance the healing and the effectiveness of our foreign security and defence policy. let us do this with determination substantially and in close cooperation with our partners.
in writing. – ukraine asks for europe’s backing in russia’s unprovoked and unjustified military aggression against ukraine. that includes repeated calls for the june 24 european council to grant ukraine the status of eu candidate country. indeed, this has to be done, particularly as rumours continue to grow about the secret consultations of certain member states aimed at avoiding such a decision. therefore, latvia along with the baltic states must work arduously to build a powerful eu member state coalition that can pressure the sceptics and convince them that such a course of action is the eu’s moral responsibility. it is the least we can do, considering that the eu continues to transfer eur 40 billion monthly to putin’s war machine in exchange for energy resources. in essence, we are still financing putin’s war. even the promised transfers of heavy artillery are being inexcusably delayed, while ukrainian soldiers and civilians are slaughtered and bombs and shells ravage ukrainian lands.
in writing. – eu’s security and defence policy should start outside its borders. to increase the security of the eu and our member-states, we must focus on rebuilding ukraine first. special and urgent arrangements are needed to allow coordinated and sustainable aid for ukraine, corresponding to the actual needs. eu and nato must work towards a system where responsibility is allocated for different regions or big cities as regards the aid delivery or reconstruction. besides such immediate needs, the eu should develop an eu recovery plan for ukraine focusing on longer-term investments into ukraine’s economy, which will encourage recovery and modernization aligned to the country’s eu membership perspective. eu must also focus on africa. engaging more strategically with the authorities and civil society there will allow us to have better control on migration flows and potential threats for our security. however, in order to become a serious global player, the eu will have to improve its decision-making process. it will have to strengthen and integrate the tools enabling it to intervene beyond its borders, whether civilian or military.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, well, first of all, i would like to thank rapporteur witold waszczykowski for his report. russia’s unprovoked and unjustified war of aggression against ukraine has changed the security landscape in europe and is a wakeup call for the eu. this is an attack also to europe and the whole democratic world. russia is trying to suffocate ukraine’s economy through a long war of attrition and a black sea blockade. our support to ukraine is unprecedented, mobilising all instruments: political, military, economic and humanitarian, and it will be continued. we have also stepped up considerably our support to moldova, the most affected neighbour of ukraine. politically, we reached out to our partners to isolate russia in the international forum. economically, we responded to russia’s military aggression against ukraine and its civilians with the largest packages of sanctions in eu history. the eu continues to deliver military support at a fast pace. our unprecedented military support package of eur 2 billion under the european peace facility helps ukraine defend its population and territorial integrity. the military support by eu member states continues to be delivered at a fast pace. the common security and defence policy mission (euam ukraine) has mobilised to provide extra support and facilitate the investigation and prosecution of international crimes committed. maintaining international unity and promotion of multilateralism remains vital. therefore we will continue supporting ukraine through the osce, particularly in a context of closure of the osce’s special monitoring mission to ukraine provoked by russia’s obstructive behaviour. we have proposed to increase non—lethal military assistance measures benefiting georgia and moldova. it will support logistics, cyber defence, military, medical, engineering and mobility capabilities. we will present them in june for a planned adoption by the council in july. honourable members, the work has to end on terms acceptable for kyiv and with full respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine within its internationally recognised borders. the eu strongly continues to support ukraine to win this war. in the context of russia’s illegal and unprovoked military aggression against ukraine, the strategic compass clearly stresses our intention to boost our cooperation in the area of security and defence with our eastern partners. support to ukraine, georgia, moldova and countries in the south caucasus is more important than ever. we will continue supporting our partners and strengthening ties with them. thank you for your attention. slava ukraini! long live europe!
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, the eastern partnership initiative was always envisaged to support our eastern neighbours in truly building a ring of friends. unfortunately, the russian federation under vladimir putin has instead continued to view these countries as its sphere of influence. it regards people’s desire, states’ sovereignty, territorial integrity, undermining the very principles of european and international security. today, putin’s russia is the number one source of instability for our eastern partners. as such, the european union, together with our allies, must do all in our power to support our neighbours’ resilience and independence. we must smartly employ both our hard and soft tools in careful synergy. for example, we continue to support ukraine materially as well as through micro-financial support. we must also support the belarusian people’s desire for freedom. it is also vital to continue to work with our neighbours on addressing the country’s energy insecurity and to stop russia from using frozen conflicts and occupied territories to further destabilise these countries. finally, we must strengthen societal resilience against disinformation seeking to demoralise and confuse. although the challenge in front of us is significant, we do have our right tools. what we require now is more strategic foresight and political will to ensure they are fully utilised.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the continent of europe is no longer divided into eastern and western europe. russia’s war of aggression against ukraine was a uniting factor, which brought us to the need for strong and reliable common security and defence policy. the eu must draw conclusions from unprovoked russian military aggression in ukraine. the eu must further strengthen the political and operational dimensions of its common security and defence policy. it is vital that the eastern partners do not remain in a grey zone of insecurity, or become isolated in a security vacuum. it is important to involve the eastern partners in the formulation and implementation of eu security and defence policy. in order to have a safer tomorrow, we must act today. the european security architecture that can cope with external risks and threats must be inclusive of eastern partners. it must be capable of mobilising our defence capabilities and superior to the technological competences of potential adversaries. i urge the european commission and the council to assess the possibility of establishing permanent cooperation structures with the eastern partners in the field of security and defence. this is both necessary and mutually beneficial.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the eastern partnership is a very serious project, it is a very serious matter, as all we know, especially now during the war, and even though it’s a very serious project and very serious matter, i have to start with a joke. we just heard today from chancellor scholz that germany is the main country with the biggest supply of the weapons to ukraine. this is what he says today during the interview! and then we hear from france that russia should not be humiliated! that’s not my words, that’s a joke as well, mr commissioner. i treat it as a joke, but it’s not funny. so before we end up as a funny club, we have to act. and i’m not talking about poland. three and a half million ukrainians are in poland. and you’ve got 5 000 helmets from germany in ukraine. and this is the main support. it’s a joke. it is a joke. so we are not a joke club in here. european union has to answer itself. do we want to be funny or do we want to be productive? because if we will not be productive, putin will knock to the berlin’s door, paris door, and he will not stop there. remember that.
on behalf of the the left group. – madam president, the eastern partnership region is a diverse group of states sandwiched between the eu and russia, and we talk about threats to their security while replicating the policies which contributed to their insecurity in the first place. even before the war in ukraine, the text of this report was radically unacceptable to our group, needlessly confrontational and provocative, oblivious to russian security concerns, bullish about extending eu influence. and of course, since the war, instead of scrapping this failed policy, the jet engines have been nailed on to every part of it. and yet militarism on one side merely feeds militarism on the other. and this report is now a gold rush for defence interests. blank cheques are being written for the arms industry. meps are rubber-stamping an historic shift towards a militarised eu. opposition is discouraged, hardly existent. and we couldn’t amend this report, so we had to produce a minority one because this report calls for aligning with nato, providing lethal weapons to a conflict, and increasing defence spending. it’s a path to armament and imperialist rivalry, and it’s unacceptable to us.
madam president, russian aggression in ukraine shows clearly that russia does not want to have functioning, free democratic countries along its borders. and i hope there is a clear, unequivocal message from the council in the next number of weeks around the candidate status for ukraine in application to join the european union. at the moment, ukrainians are dying to defend their homes, their families, their towns and their country. but equally they are dying to defend values that we hold dear in this house. and if we are to be serious about talking about eastern partnership, well, the european union will have to come forward and support in a real, meaningful, tangible way, and that would be to confer candidate status on ukraine immediately. i have seen first-hand the devastation in bucha, in irpin and other parts of the ukraine, and it will be shameful for us to turn our backs and not to give clear messages of support and solidarity to the ukrainian people as they are dying defending the values that we hold dear. so in the next number of weeks confer candidate status and give them hope and support.
madam president, i supported this well-written report and i very much welcome it. it’s very important that we have greater transparency in how quota is allocated within a country. of course, it is also very important that we have greater transparency to assess how quotas are allocated between countries. and we do need to insist that in a formal review of the common fisheries policy that we take into account the migratory changes of fish in terms of their movement patterns in the seas around europe. and from an irish perspective, we have to take into account the environmental, the social and economic criteria to ensure that ireland gets its fair share of allocation in the review of the common fisheries policy, bearing in mind we have been singularly most impacted because of brexit, where we have had large cuts to quota. and this is going to have a profound impact on the viability of the fishing industry, on the viability of rural coastal communities around ireland. so in the context of the motion regarding article 17, i welcome the report. we need transparency, but we equally need transparency in the review of the common fisheries policy so that we can have a fair allocation of the fish in the seas that belong to all europeans.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioners, colleagues, i say to the taoiseach, thank you so much for so passionately and comprehensively outlining the importance of the eu to ireland past, present and future. as we both know, membership of the european union has been nothing short of life—changing for the people of ireland over the last 50 years. that historic vote in may 1972 to join the european communities changed the economic and social trajectory of the irish state for the better. and as an irish woman, i can unequivocally vouch for this positive change. the five decades have witnessed ireland’s emergence as a modern, open economy and society, shaped by close, reciprocal cooperation with our european partners. we strongly endorse the european values of human rights, democracy, freedom of the press, and rule of law. the european union is a beacon, a model, and an instrument for obtaining peace. fittingly, last night, as the taoiseach said, we paid tribute to a committed european, a peacemaker, and a former member of this parliament, john hume. we remember his outstanding work for peace and his resolute, determined stance against the use of violence in ireland. he believed in and personified this institution, describing the eu as the most successful peace project in history. he believed in extensive dialogue to bring about peace. that approach is a hallmark of the eu’s efforts to resolve outstanding concerns within the protocol in northern ireland. the european way is to negotiate in good faith and we expect the same in return from the uk, not bad faith. taoiseach, you were right when you said it would be a historic low to break an international treaty. i also pay tribute to the commissioners maroš šefčovič, and before him michel barnier, for their efforts to resolve these issues. they have shown endless patience and resolve, and i want to take this opportunity to thank my fellow parliamentarians here in this house for their deep understanding of the consequences of brexit and for their unwavering support for ireland as a small member state. the brutal russian aggression and invasion of ukraine illustrates the scale of the threat to multilateralism, to human decency and to the international rule of law. all member states have a role to play in the future of defence and security policy. we must support one another. i believe that the future of ukraine and other eastern partners is within the eu. but i ask, is it good enough to say that your future lies in europe, but that could be a generation away? the issues facing ireland today are mirrored across europe. ireland’s challenges are europe’s challenges, and europe’s opportunities are ireland’s opportunities. ireland and the eu must continue to defend democracy and the people of ukraine. we must respond comprehensively to the current challenges of the cost of living crisis, the energy crisis, and work together as we have done during covid. we are creating the future by the decisions made here today and through our engagement with our citizens. ireland’s future is without doubt at the heart of europe. éire go brách and long live europe.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome this debate and i will focus on one aspect of it. as throughout the covid—19 pandemic, right across the european union the enormous contribution that carers make to our societies was clear to see. their work is critical, imperative, it underlines our very social fabric here, in european society, and ensures that our family and friends have the kind of care they need when they are at their most vulnerable. however, we know that many of those who provide care within our societies are immigrants to europe, coming to provide care for europeans of all ages at the moments in their lives when they need help the most. but we do not have enough carers in europe with our care sector, childcare, elder care woefully understaffed, and care workers overstretched. this is an opportunity. it’s an opportunity for at least 8 million jobs in europe by 2030. we must take advantage of it. and as such, i am delighted that the european commission has now taken on board my call to attract workers in the care sector as part of their skills and talent package, following my representations to commissioner schinas. i particularly welcome that the commission will explore the potential for a new eu—led visa scheme for care workers. to this end, i support calls to add care workers to the category of essential workers. this is crucial and should be implemented immediately. as we look towards the new european care strategy, which will be released in september, i see this as a crucial building block towards that strategy. let’s make this the first step towards a europe for carers.
mr president, since 1979 parliament has had to fight for all the prerogatives it has today. we started from nothing, we were an academy, and today we are a real center of political decision-making. and at that time, the right of legislative initiative was not on the agenda. it took several legislatures before the right of legislative initiative was finally granted. but we're barely past the embryonic stage in this area. as for the possible ways of implementing the right of legislative initiative, my preference is clearly for a change in the treaty. if the rangel report is adopted, this will put an end to the backlog we have with national parliaments. in my country, the national parliament has the right of legislative initiative, as in most parliaments of the member states of the european union. but the right of legislative initiative is not reserved for members of parliament alone. even professional chambers, which are an integral part of the legislative process, have the right of legislative initiative. in my country, for example, the chamber of commerce and industry for workers is 60% non-luxembourgish and 40% luxembourgish. even this body, which is a minority of luxembourgers, has the right of legislative initiative. so let us put an end to this anachronism of denying the european parliament what is normal for national parliaments.
mr president, ‘democratic deficit’ is the term used by people who argue that the eu institutions and their decision-making procedures suffer from a lack of democracy and seem inaccessible to citizens. in the european parliament, we, some 705 elected meps, represent the eu’s 448 million citizens in the only directly elected eu institution and as part of one of the largest democratic assemblies in the world. while the role of the european parliament has been progressively enhanced through the recent treaties, we have always believed that there should be a further strengthening of parliament’s power by way of the right to initiate legislation. such a right to initiate is a commonplace in parliamentary systems throughout the world. the conference on the future of europe has been a worthy democratic exercise. to give effect to the conclusions of the conference and to strengthen democracy, we must progress the right of this parliament to initiate legislation.
madam president, vice-president, colleagues, when it comes to women’s rights, retrogressive initiatives globally are resulting in the backsliding of sexual and reproductive health rights, sadly, even here in europe. the recent leak of an initial draft majority opinion of the us supreme court on the roe v. wade case is a huge cause for concern in the united states, but also for women here in europe and around the world. restrictions on access to abortion have forced women, notably those who are most vulnerable, to travel long distances, to carry unviable pregnancies to term against their will, or to resort to unsafe self-managed abortions. this was the situation in my member state, ireland, until the repeal of the eighth amendment in recent years, when irish people put their trust in the women of ireland. according to the who, the proportion of unsafe abortions is significantly higher in countries with highly restrictive abortion laws than in countries with less restrictive laws. this shouldn’t come as a surprise to anyone. this resolution acknowledges that, among adolescent girls, aged 15 to 19 years, pregnancy and childbirth complications are the leading cause of death globally. imagine that. many of these deaths are preventable with safe, legal and timely abortion care and quality medical care. we must show compassion, empathy and flexibility when it comes to a woman’s right to choose how they live their lives. the absolutist approach of banning abortion entirely shows no compassion or civility for women, nor for their bodily integrity, or faith in them to make their own decisions. as legislators, we must uphold and demonstrate our commitment to the european values of human rights and respect for human dignity by stating our position here today. my core guiding principle is and remains the same, that women’s rights are human rights and human rights are women’s rights. women deserve better in 2022. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – it’s a complicated question. i mean, we do know that getting women’s rights generally and equality accepted in many of our societies has been extremely difficult. abortion is a highly sensitive subject for people. but, as i say, i consider it to be a core, fundamental right and that women’s rights are human rights, and human rights are women’s rights. our experience in ireland showed us that we had a very long journey that we had to take part in. to be honest with you, at the end of the day, it was the individual stories of women and men, those who had carried pregnancies that weren’t viable, when they told their stories in the public domain – and that’s a very hard thing to do, as it meant they had to show great courage – but, actually, that was what really convinced the public at the end of the day. but it took a lot of leadership as well. and all i can say is that whatever party you belong to, you will find there are varying views, and we have to work very hard to convince people that the right to abortion care is a human right.
madam president, making abortion illegal only succeeds in doing one thing – it makes it unsafe and dangerous for women. when abortion is illegal, women who feel they need or have a right to the procedure find a way, but too often at great risk to themselves. the decision in 1973 for jane roe ensured the protection for women to have the right to adequate healthcare and to privacy in the united states, and it paved the way for other countries to follow. it took my own country of ireland until 2018 to overwhelmingly vote in favour of repealing our eighth amendment, ensuring that every woman has a right to choose. as european representatives, we are kidding ourselves if we believe the potential rollback of women’s rights in the united states will not impact the decisions and directions taken here. we must understand that access to sexual reproductive health is a human right, and every woman worldwide has the right to choose. i echo the words of hillary clinton: you cannot have maternal health without reproductive health, and reproductive health includes contraception, family planning and access to legal and safe abortion. we, as a european parliament, must understand and support everyone’s right to choose. if we do not do this in this house, what are our future generations going to be doing that we should have done for them? (the speaker agreed to respond to two blue-card speeches)
blue-card reply. – great question, colleague. and i think, in many cases, we also have to support those at home too. i take great example of my own country of ireland, which i’m very grateful that you brought up and mentioned. it’s about sharing the stories you heard from my epp colleague, frances fitzgerald, also. it’s about storytelling. it’s about the lived experience of men and the many women. it’s about connecting to our fellow colleagues in both sides of the house – democratic and republic – because, as you can see in this house, women’s right to choose and equality overall is supported in some sections right across this house. and for that, i think it is conversation and continuous debates like this and all and i’m grateful for the president here allowing so many blue cards because it highlights the fact that we are as passionate about equality universally and not just in the european union. i do want to say, if you don’t mind, i’ve never met a woman who wanted an abortion, i’ve never met a woman. and i think that’s an argument that the other conversationalists and viewpoints often miss: it’s not out of want, it’s unfortunately out of choice and out of need.
blue-card reply. – dear colleague, i think we’re missing the point. my mother had access to all the maternal help that she needed because she lived in a developed country. i was born in the united states. i was raised in ireland. and i was raised to see, like my mother wanted me to see, that every woman, every man has the right to choose what they wish to do with their bodies. that is the end of the conversation. my mother is exceptionally proud that i am making this debate tonight for her friends who didn’t have the right to choose. and there was many of them – undocumented irish that did not have access to legal and safe healthcare, equality. and that’s happening worldwide. it’s happening in the european union. and a question like that should never be asked in 2022 in this parliament.
blue-card speech. – thanks very much president, and i must just say to the colleague that i am a lifelong campaigner for abortion rights, but i note that you quoted madeleine albright and said that she said there was a special place in hell for women who didn’t defend other women. the same madeleine albright was the woman who was responsible when asked about the deaths of a million iraqis in the war in america ‘was it worth it, including many children?’ and she said it was. i’m wondering, do you think there’s a special place in hell for her?
madam president, roe v. wade was really a pivotal ruling in saving women’s lives by granting the right to abortion. and such was its magnitude that the conservative right in ireland were afraid that the judges in ireland might get the same idea. even though abortion was prohibited with a ban of penal servitude for life, they forced a campaign to insert a constitutional referendum to ensure that there would never be abortion in ireland. and it wasn’t until five years ago that we finally got rid of that prohibition after decades of struggle to deliver free, safe and legal abortions. it’s one of the few positives in recent years in terms of reproductive health. and one of the reasons for that was international solidarity, be it the friendship from our neighbours in the uk offering their homes to women and girls, the support from the netherlands and women on web, the support from our sisters in the united states fundraising. so it is entirely appropriate that we discuss this issue to stand in solidarity with our sisters and friends in the us, offer our support and urge a defence of roe v. wade. their struggle is also ours.
madam president, criminalising abortion criminalises women and girls, it risks the lives and health of women and girls, and it ends up in backstreet abortions and bathroom abortions. roe v. wade was a fundamental decision of a court at a time that conferred rights on women, and we must not deny that there is a backsliding of women’s rights across many member states in this union as well. we have to stand up and stand in solidarity with women in countries where there is a fundamental breach of their basic human rights in terms of access to health care, abortion care and sexual and reproductive health care as well. ireland had a ban on abortion, but we had abortions every day of the week for years, even though we had a ban, because they got on the plane and they went to the uk. they went to other countries in europe as well. so be under no illusions, the idea that you’re banning abortions in a member state, in this country, in this union means only one thing – they are going elsewhere, and you are putting their lives at risk. we must stand with them!
madam president, a woman’s right to choose is a human right. why are we so quiet about challenging the us when they threaten human rights? some people have said in here, ‘how dare we talk about the us?’ we talk about everybody else. is the us a functioning democracy? well, let’s have a look at it. it cost 2 billion to become president. they have 25% of the total prisoners in the world. they spend over 800 billion a year on arms, which is more than most of the world put together. they’ve been at war for 250 years since their state was formed 275 years ago. but they can’t afford universal health care. they can’t afford a 1.7 trillion debt forgiveness for students. they can’t afford for a programme for the 17 million children that go to bed hungry. is this a functioning democracy? what’s your idea of a democracy? bernie sanders wasn’t even allowed to win the nomination for the democrats. the americans couldn’t spell democracy. (the speaker agreed to respond to two blue-card speeches)
the intervention requested by the blue card draw. you mentioned democracy, which comes from two words: demos and abbreviation. so the people rule. you really think that the european people should decide about the americans. how do you define the word democracy? do you think that, say, australians should make laws in europe or do you think that european peoples should democratically make laws in europe, american in america, and australian in australia?
blue-card reply. – it just so happens that we actually have a foreign affairs department in the european union, and we actually question how everybody else runs their affairs. we’re never done talking about china. we talk about syria, iraq. we talk about venezuela, nicaragua. we talk about everybody. i mean, what’s your idea? i mean, this idea. i mean, what is democracy anyway? what is it? is it having a vote every four or five years? no, it’s not. it’s your people having a say in the society they live in. and most of the american people have no say in the society they’re living in. their country is run by oligarchs. they’re run by big business: oil, coal, big pharma and the arms industry run the place. they elect a president and it costs them 2 billion to get into the place and he serves them when he does. they haven’t got democracy.
blue-card reply. – i agree with the gentleman. i mean, what he’s actually saying is that we actually are entitled to have an opinion. we have the right to choose; the same as a woman should have the right to choose. and we shouldn’t be telling other countries how to run their affairs. there’s a serious lack of respect for other nations. there’s a serious failure to actually just take other people’s position on board. we give out about countries with cultures older than our own. i mean, there’s a serious lack of tolerance, and one of the reasons there’s war is because there’s a lack of tolerance. we need to tolerate each other more and be more accepting of each other and stop fighting with each other and put an end to war.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we in the committee on petitions have received a great many petitions denouncing the growing problem of illegal logging in europe. citizens in particular complain that european laws, which already have several shortcomings, are seriously deficient in their application at the territorial level. i think we need better control and better harmonization. the union should promote the use of scientific methods to monitor deforestation and to verify the legal origin of timber in trade and to assess the effectiveness of forest management. and then, i agree with mr gheorghe, we need an environmental prosecutor in the european union against transnational environmental crimes, including illegal logging. a european environmental prosecutor would facilitate cross-border investigations and harmonise judicial procedures across the union. finally, however, a clear definition of the offence of illegal logging is also necessary, because member states, organisations and stakeholders have very different interpretations today.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. this is a big deal. and of course, in some countries, it's actually a bigger problem, in other countries it's a smaller problem. my own country, poland, has a very sensible, sustainable forest policy. we've been investing in forests for at least seven years, but we're not going to force this model on anyone. we treat the forest as a national asset. but i also want to stress that this is definitely a european union-wide problem. i just wanted to thank the commissioner for a very professional speech. i am delighted that our colleague from the european parliament for six years is now in this position. i thought the commissioner would say whether there is illegal logging in dubrovnik, beautiful dubrovnik, where you were mayor for two terms. i didn't hear that, but maybe that's not the problem. i think it would be good to keep a certain limit on this. this cannot be a pretext for creating instruments which go beyond the current framework of the european union and allow the union to fall within the competence of the member states.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, forests are a national treasure. green is patriotism. forests are the lungs of the planet. there's no question about that. and the report from the colleague is very timely. illegal logging and illegal timber extraction is theft from future generations and must be punished very severely. but at the same time, it's important to know who's doing it. in bulgaria, where we have one of the largest forest areas in europe and in general, the forests are run by the bulgarian socialist party, which is on the left. he's a member of the socialists and democrats, the social democrats. and it's being illegally extracted by functionaries of the "rights and freedoms movement" - people who are in the "new europe" group. so when you talk about deforestation, point out those who do it. and they're left and left in these rows. these are the people who are cutting down the forests illegally. they sell them, they destroy them, and in doing so, they endanger not only our lives, but the lives of everyone else. what i'm trying to say is that green patriotism and the forest must be preserved.
mr president, commissioner, in many eu countries we are having a problem with illegal logging. i’ve witnessed it in estonia, in slovakia, in poland, in spain, in romania and other countries. but let me focus on romania. while the environmental commission is compiling an enormous amount of evidence towards an infringement procedure, there is ongoing illegal logging in romania happening, concretely in the făgăraş mountains, in the iaşi area. every citizen can see on google maps how deforestation increased in romania while we were compiling the information for the infringement procedure. did the romanian government really better the situation? i don’t know. an environmental impact assessment only being done after the forest has been logged, i think is not serving the purpose. to actually reduce transparency and reduce the amount of information that is provided to citizens in the public tracking system for wood trucks is actually not the direction that i think the romanian government should go in preventing illegal logging. we have to see that while we are doing an infringement procedure, we see something like panic logging in the region – this increased access to the forests and increased deforestation. and i would urge you to start the court case as soon as possible to save as much as can still be saved, please. i coincide with the question of the public: please tell us what the next steps will be.
a uachtaráin, the commissioner is absolutely correct when she says we need more forests in europe. obviously illegal logging has to be tackled and eliminated, if at all possible, and i support our endeavours in that regard. fortunately, in my country, it’s the opposite problem we have: we can’t get legal logging, because of rules by the department for planning permission, permitting, etc. – a whole backlog they tried to blame on the european union, until, of course, that was disproved. and as a result, they have a target of setting 8 000 hectares per year, and they are only meeting 2 000. so i would ask the commission to look at that and ensure that those who want to set forest in ireland are facilitated, not what is happening at the minute. now a good news story is that there is a company in ireland set up by enda keane, treemetrics, which recently launched a climate—smart forest management platform with the support of the esa, and i think that’s something that could be very helpful and i would ask the commission to look into it.
mr president, the european union should move swiftly, and the commission should move swiftly, to take infringement proceedings against countries who fail to implement the basic standards of protection in terms of forestry and illegal logging. and certainly with the technology and satellite observation and tracking systems in place, it should not be beyond the capabilities of member states not only to observe but to prosecute those that are involved in illegal logging. and i would urge that the commission would take infringement proceedings against countries who fail to act. in terms of ireland, as was already referenced, in ireland the opposite is the case. we can’t plant forestry due to regulation, planning difficulties. and if we do plant it, we can’t harvest it – and i’m talking about commercial forestry – because of the inability of the public administration to deal with licensing for felling. so i would also invite the commission to look at ireland’s track record to try and meet our goals of increasing forestry, bearing in mind we have only 11% of our landmass under forestry, and we simply are not meeting any targets in terms of our ambition to increase the amount of forestry planted for commercial purposes.
mr president, the european court of auditors released a report recently linking logging rates to an increase in the consumption of solid biomass for energy purposes. now, to meet renewable energy targets, burning biomass is the cheapest alternative, so many countries are effectively forced to do so to meet their targets. sixty per cent of the eu’s renewable energy is coming from biomass, which continues to rise. this leads to the burning of even more wood and the creation of more emissions in a vicious circle. how is this a sound environmental practice? forest biomass should not be considered a renewable energy source: it actively harms forests by creating a cash—crop forestry plantation industry, which of course makes space for the illegal logging industry in europe. we seriously need to reconsider the inclusion of forest biomass under the eu renewable energy directive. it is damaging european forests.
mr president, thanks to colleagues for tabling the initiative. i mean, four days ago on every social media platform, the eu was celebrating world environmental day, and one of our key targets was to fight deforestation, recognising that forests play a vital role in mitigating the catastrophic impact of climate change. and yet the european union’s forests only account for 5% of the world’s forests. and in countries like my own, which is twice the size of switzerland, it is only half of the forestry. and i’m delighted that colleagues from the government parties in ireland are present, so maybe their government might address this problem, but the forests that we have, we’ve got to protect. and in that context, illegal logging is important to address. i agree with the colleague who spoke before me. there is a distinction between people, out of energy poverty, eking out some fuel to heat their homes and the industrial scale illegal logging which is going on very often cross-border and done through organised crime. there has to be stronger coordination at eu level, but also a holistic approach that allows forest planning with a stronger role for local communities.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for all your comments. you know, the european union forest strategy refers to the need to better respond to new challenges and needs, in particular concerning climate and biodiversity objectives and the issue of forest health, which is of concern for all member states. it specifically announces further work on indicators and thresholds and refers to the need to better address these challenges. we intend to work jointly with member states and stakeholders and assess how these could best be used to demonstrate, communicate and further develop the forest sector’s sustainability. with regard to the use of remote sensing to fight illegal logging, it is important to note that it is the competence of member states to control the enforcement of the european union timber regulation. it is generally not a sufficient tool to ensure its enforcement, and the planned legislative proposal on a forest monitoring framework will, however, ensure better access to data on forest logging and help fight illegal logging. i already mentioned that the commission is determined to play its role as guardian of the treaties. i said that over the past years when we concluded that eu legislation was not properly implemented, we have launched infringement procedures against the member states concerned. i mentioned poland, slovakia, romania and estonia, and now a few words on romania. we are paying great attention to the illegal logging situation in romania, as this puts into jeopardy human lives and the rich biodiversity of romanian forests. we are following very closely this case as it strongly relates not only to compliance with habitat directive and the timber regulation, but also to the credibility of the eu forest strategy. we are cooperating closely with the romanian authorities and are following up on the work that remains to be done, in particular the restoration of deteriorated forests. concerning the suggestions and remarks of the irish meps, we have taken good note of your remarks. dear members, in the past few years, several petitions have highlighted the extent to which illegal logging grew in the european union during the pandemic. we have since opened an infringement procedure for breaches of eu environmental law. this shows that we take your pleas seriously. i want to thank honourable members for following this topic so closely. we are strongly committed to the protection of our forests and environmental defenders in the european union, and we look forward to the plenary vote expected at the next plenary session this month. and regarding dubrovnik, there are no forests, only cypress trees and pine trees, and they are under conservation so nobody is doing illegal logging there! thank you very much for mentioning this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
a uachtaráin, i voted in favour of this resolution, which outlines parliament’s concerns regarding the european commission’s recent positive assessment of poland’s recovery and resilience plan. there is no doubt that serious and sustained breaches of the rule of law abound in poland, and the commission would do well to adhere to the clear conditions attached to financing under the rrf in its approval of poland’s plans. european funds cannot be provided to a country whose government continues to disregard the rulings of the court of justice of the european union and the european court of human rights, as well as the primacy of eu law.
mr president, i am a lawyer and i voted for this resolution because the european union means respect for human rights, freedom, equality, the rule of law. any serious violation of them must have consequences. we cannot turn a blind eye when a member state is outside the treaties through the actions of political leaders and governing parties. european money must go to citizens, not to governing parties and their friends. judgments of the eu cj and international courts must be respected. corruption, illiberalism, dedicated laws, violation of the rights of some citizens, all must be sanctioned. in the european union, no one is more equal than another: no state, no president or prime minister, no political group and no citizen. there are no second-rate member states, there are no more powerful member states. the same rules must apply to everyone.
mr. chairman, colleagues, the political attack against poland continues. poland is a country that is currently bearing the brunt of helping many people who are fleeing war. poland has its own national government, elected by polish citizens. there are people in this room who are trying to politically change the polish government, to replace the vote of the polish people. that's why they've been looking for all kinds of ways to change the polish vote for years. this report is part of the disgraceful conduct directed against the polish state and the polish nation the sovereign polish nation. this is completely unacceptable. for us, the european union must be a union of states that respect their sovereignty. a union of states that have their own opinion and stand by it an equal union. for this reason, the report and the attempt to stop the plan to rebuild poland is completely unacceptable and shameful. long live the europe of the homelands!
mr president, i agree with the last speaker that it should be 100% the choice of the polish people to elect the government that they see fit. now the release of the recovery and resilience facility fund to poland is an interesting one for the eu, because one day they are telling us about the rules and the regulations and what you have to do and what you don’t have to do. and the next day it doesn’t seem to matter quite as much. and i also find it interesting that hungary haven’t had their money released. i mean, are things that much different in hungary and poland? have poland become the best boys in the class overnight? or is it just that this actually suits the geopolitical agenda and poland has to be rewarded for being seriously anti-russian, and also being very helpful towards the refugees? i think that this could come back to bite the european commission.
mr president, since taking up my mandate as a member of the european parliament, i have made sure that the voice of the european citizens is truly heard in the european parliament. that's why i voted for this resolution. 90% of europeans think we should take them more into account in decisions about the future of europe. 55% of europeans cite voting in european elections as one of the most effective ways to ensure that their voices are heard by decision-makers at the level of the european union. representation is not through political alliances or negotiations between groups and parties. meps are elected by the citizens of the member states. it is the duty and responsibility of meps to represent citizens through laws that reflect the trust placed in them.
mr president, i did not support this report, although it is logical that the european parliament should have some legislative initiative because of the nature of the political processes in the european union and the european parliament at the moment. giving legislative initiative at this moment, in this political configuration, will allow the far-left majority to impose its agenda, which i do not think is the agenda of european citizens. the balance of institutions is important and it must be preserved in order to protect european countries from the follies of the green deal, green hysteria, green climate hysteria. legislation in this parliament by these colleagues of ours would be dictated by their very strong, very vocal, very vocal minority, which they are imposing with a new religion. for that reason, i think it's too early to talk about such an initiative. this would also be to the detriment of the interests of the citizens of the member states. i believe that the legislative initiative should still be left to the national parliaments.
mr president, for me, i suppose this place is often kind of like a sort of delusional, backslappers’ convention, with endless self-flattery about how the eu is a force for democracy and values, out fighting the autocrats. but, of course, the reality is completely different: neoliberalism, market extremism, austerity, all set in stone in the treaties, beyond democratic reform. unelected bodies like the ecb and the troika bully, sabotage and depose national governments elected by their people. and as the eu grows, power moves away from national parliaments into the eu without any corresponding control by the people. the bodies of the eu are complicated and obscure, and the only body directly elected by the citizens, the parliament, has its wings clipped. no power to propose legislation. no democracy ever looked like this. the citizens aren’t stupid. the deficit is obvious. like a real parliament, we need to initiate legislation. that’s why i voted for the resolution.
mr president, it’s a bit mad that the only body that’s directly elected in the eu is not allowed to legislate, but we should still question what we do when we get here. this week we continued the long legacy of neo—colonial interference in the democratic processes and internal affairs of sovereign states like nicaragua, who try to break with the abuses of white supremacist elites and the most brutal excesses of capitalist exploitation. when the us and its allies pull off their coups through organised violence, lawfare, election—rigging and the influence operations orchestrated through the likes of the national endowment for democracy and usaid, then all is well – the complete undermining of the democratic process that ushers in western—business—friendly comprador ready to gut social services, rip up environmental protections, sell off state assets, rip up environmental protections, and drive the general population into poverty. according to the logic of the liberal ideology, this has when democracy has won. and when the people vote for those ready to stop capitalist plunder, we call them authoritarian, so sanctions must be imposed to punish them. who’s being authoritarian?
mr president, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the call for a convention for the revision of the treaties. the reason i did is i believe we do have to have a discussion. we had the conference on the future of europe – that did facilitate some form of debate, but the european union is changing, is evolving, and we do need to assess where we are in terms of making sure that there is democratic accountability. of course, when you do start changing treaties, you have to be very conscious of something, and that is that we do not leave the citizens behind. that it’s not seen as changing the treaties to centralise power. so for any revision of treaties, particularly in the functioning of the institutions and how they work, we have to have checks and balances; we have to ensure that the citizens are at the heart of the decision—making process. the idea that we just scrap unanimity completely does undermine the concept of subsidiarity, of small member states believing that they have a voice at the table as well. in these discussions, it is vital that we consult, listen and have the citizen at the heart of the decision-making process rather than the centre.
mr president, there’s no doubt about it: the eu must change radically. its constitution isn’t fit for purpose; it’s an engine of neoliberalism; and its democratic credentials are not in good shape. so yes, revision of the treaties is absolutely necessary, but not like this. the conceit here of orderly, democratic eu reform is a trap. the conference on the future of europe is actually change from above disguised as reform from below. some citizens did participate, and fair play to them, but the process was guided by the european elites to get the outcome that they wanted. it involved people who are already in the bubble. and the outcome that they wanted is what we have here, away from unanimity in the council, so the big states can gang up on the smaller ones and a runaway eu hurtling towards federalism, neoliberalism and militarism can be unleashed. now we tried to improve this resolution. it wasn’t possible. we’re opposed to revising the treaties under these circumstances, therefore, we voted against.
mr president, you know you’re never going to find anyone who’ll would stand up and say, ‘you know what, i’m in favour of forced labour’, but actually it’s everywhere. so why is that? on the one hand, we have the reality of the most abhorrent forms – debt bondage, trafficking, and other forms of modern slavery. but actually the lines are quite blurred, because you look at situations of poverty and the consequences of capitalism in many societies, leaving people with no choice but to engage in appalling labour practices. this too is forced labour if the alternative is starvation, and we particularly see this in the global south in relation to the unleashing of raw materials for the digital economy. and i think it is incumbent on us to deal with this issue in a proper way, not to instrumentalise it the way we do, and the way we did in this plenary in dealing with the issue of the uyghurs in china, where the very good work done by the un high representative in visiting the people’s republic of china and discussing these issues with the chinese authorities was undermined and debased for geopolitical reasons.
mr president, of course we should legislate to stop all forced labour. but how many times have we had to listen to accusations about china, backed up by nothing more than the say—so of weapons—industry—funded think tanks and groups on the payroll of cia cut—outs like the national endowment for democracy? where are the full and rigorous investigations, the evidence? screaming, unsupported accusations is not how to conduct international relations. the un high commissioner for human rights has just visited xinjiang, has had discussions with many groups and representatives there, and hopes this is the start of a fruitful process towards transparency and high human rights standards in china. for this stance, which shows goodwill and respect, some of the most rabid anti-china voices have called for the high commissioner to step down. these are mccarthyite smear tactics, which expose the racist and fanatic ideology driving the groups making these claims. we have clear evidence of widespread slave labour in the world’s largest prison system in the world’s most repressive police state, the united states of america. can we start talking about them?
mr president, commissioner, there is no further progress; since 2020, the world has made almost no progress towards achieving the sustainable development goals that the international community has set for 2030. no, the climate and environmental challenge is not solved, and we are far from it. the sdg index, which measures countries' progress towards achieving the 17 sustainable development goals, fell for the second year in a row. we might think that the health crisis and then the war in ukraine are responsible for this, but that is not the case. since 2016, the number of people suffering from hunger has been increasing. and goal 2 to end world hunger by 2030 is well under way. the truth is that we are in fact in the midst of a mega-crisis of the capitalist system: a health, economic, social, environmental, geopolitical and, tomorrow, financial crisis. and our current policies are in constant conflict with our planetary and human limits. that's what needs to change. we know the solutions. each week, new expert reports are added to the elders' reports. what we lack is the political will to turn the page on neoliberalism. here in the european parliament we clearly have a role to play. the green deal and european strategic autonomy are major opportunities to reconnect with the welfare state and to find effective policies. the european union has a responsibility to put its project on the 17 sdg trajectory and we must do everything we can to bring the rest of the world in that direction. we must drive and accompany change.
mr president, i should like to say hello to the commissioner. so today, meps of all political colours will talk about the importance of the sustainable development goals, and rightly so. the sdgs remain the only international agreement to build a more equitable and resilient world that prospers within the planetary boundaries. but nice words about sdg implementation today are no good if we don’t put those words into practice and actively work towards increasing ambition in the legislation we work on every day as meps. on environment, that means increased ambition on climate, increased ambition on biodiversity and increased ambition on reducing pollution. it means voting against greenwashing and in favour of genuine sustainability. i call on everyone to remember this during crucial votes in this house in the coming weeks and months. do the right thing by the sdgs: not just words today, but in meaningful action every day.
madam president, i very much welcome the findings of this report, particularly in the areas of outreach and inclusion. however, while the inclusion measures in the erasmus+ programme 2014-2020 were much improved, considerable challenges and shortcomings continue to persist. we must ensure that anyone wanting to avail of erasmus+ has the opportunity to do so and has access to information and financial assistance to really enjoy and flourish from the experience, as this continues to disproportionately affect those from lower socioeconomic backgrounds, migrants, roma people, irish travellers and our disabled community members. in addition, as an mep representing a constituency on the border with northern ireland, continued inclusion of northern irish students in the erasmus programme is key, given the current political climate we all live in. erasmus was founded on the basis that cultural and educational exchanges between countries foster peace and this is now more important than ever. the erasmus+ programme must be, at its heart, guided by a spirit of inclusion for all.
madam president, i just want to say that i’m appalled at the toxic anti-trans sentiment that has been raging internationally and has made its way to the irish airwaves during the pride month. the viral spread of inflammatory, inaccurate rhetoric and lies is leaving hurt and confusion in its wake. it’s putting people’s lives in danger. those who use the power of letters and words and language to spread messages of hate must know that their vitriol will be matched and countered by the unassailable power of love. language is power. words are power. letters are power. in those letters lgbti, the ‘t’ is welcome and the ‘t’ stays. trans rights must be respected and trans rights must be protected.
mr president, i’m extremely disappointed that we were unable to implement this particular oecd agreement of 137 countries after many, many years of negotiations. my country, ireland, had genuine concerns about the proposals and we were one of the last countries to sign up to it. but we did come to the table in a spirit of negotiation and compromise, and we did welcome and sign up, as i said, to the agreement. the fact of the matter is that hungary is vetoing this not because of the specific issue of the tax deal itself, but they just want to flex their political muscle because of the other issues that orbán is consistently raising. that undermines the basic structures and fabric of what the european union stands for. but i do think that we want to be very careful that we don’t rush headlong into a situation where we now use the fact that hungary is blackmailing europe, through a tax proposal, to unwind national sovereignty around the issue of taxation. and if we are to have any major discussions in how europe is framed, how it’s underpinned with treaties, the integrity and the sovereignty of nations, taxation is a fundamental issue. it’s fundamental to citizens in member states. governments are elected in member states. one of the great democratic processes is an election itself. and very often taxation is at the centre of those debates at member state level. so if we are to have a debate around unanimity versus a qualified majority voting on the issue of taxation, we want to be very careful that we don’t undermine the basic concept of member sovereignty in the areas of taxation, which means democratic accountability as well. tread carefully on that particular issue.
i have one more announcement to make: the renew europe group has sent the president a decision on the change of appointments in a committee. this decision shall be published in the minutes of today's meeting and shall enter into force on the day of its notification. (the sitting was suspended at 10.52 a.m.)
dear colleagues, dear president hichilema, in may 2017, this house adopted a resolution in which we expressed grave concern over your arrest, mr president, and incarceration on fabricated, politically motivated charges. we insisted on the need to ensure fairness, diligence and transparency during your trial. after the abuse and hardship you suffered, you now address us as the democratically elected president of your country. it is indeed, therefore, a great honour to have you with us today. zambia is a democratic model in southern africa and an example of a mature democracy for the whole african continent. in the current troubled geopolitical context, it is important that democratic forces nourish and further develop cooperation with each other. this applies especially for africa, where we see the increasing influence of russia and other malign players. zambia is a long—term, stable partner of the european union and plays a key regional role. our relationship is rooted in a spirit of mutual respect and cooperation. it is based on shared values of democracy, respect for the rule of law, human rights and rules-based multilateralism. we are well aware of the serious economic challenges brought on your country by the pandemic and exacerbated by the increased prices of fuel and fertilisers resulting from the russian aggression against ukraine. the european union stands ready to mitigate these consequences through the ‘global gateway africa’ initiative and through reinforced political dialogue. this parliament fully supports your government in its endeavours to tackle your main challenges and priorities – notably the fight against poverty, encouraging economic recovery, the creation of decent jobs and the promotion of good governance. dear president, the floor is yours.
president of the republic of zambia. – thank you very much your excellency, ms roberta metsola, president of the european union parliament, honourable members of the european union parliament, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, greetings to you all from zambia. allow me first and foremost to express our sincere condolences on behalf of the people of zambia, and indeed on my own behalf, on the passing of his excellency mr david sassoli, former president of the european parliament. may his soul rest in peace. honourable members, this is the first time in zambia’s history that a sitting president addresses a european union parliament, and it is a source of great pride for our country that we have been recognised as an exemplary democracy on the african continent and as a key cooperating partner of the european union. we thank you for this recognition, and we look forward to deepening our engagement and collaboration in the coming years, which should result in tangible benefits for both the people of the republic of zambia and indeed the european union. may i address my 2017 incarceration, which the president of the parliament has indicated. honourable members, it is a particular privilege for me to personally address this parliament given the circumstances of 2017. i am talking about the incarceration. following our unlawful incarceration in 2017, the eu parliament boldly and consistently demanded not only for my release, but also for the restoration of the rule of law in our country and of course, human rights. and an official resolution was passed by yourselves. an official resolution was passed by yourselves – this is absolutely, absolutely humbling to us. the resolution of 2017 on zambia, particularly the case of one hakainde hichilema, who happens to be myself, was a mark of true solidarity and real commitment to protecting human rights. i remain indebted to you for standing up for human rights and freedom, not only for myself and my co—accused, but for all of the people of the republic of zambia under the extremely difficult circumstances that we faced at the time. i thank you most sincerely for this gesture. truly the people of zambia thank you for taking a principled position on the promotion of human rights in our country and indeed on our continent. the zambia 2021 elections deserve my comment, our comment. honourable members, zambia’s general elections held last year in august; in that time, that election, the people of zambia demonstrated remarkable strength and resolve in their determination to preserve zambia’s democracy by voting out the party then which was in government and voting for us into government. it was a very extraordinary display of willpower and people power in the face of economic hardships and indeed political intimidation. in the face of economic hardships it was difficult for ordinary people to make such a democratic decision as they did in our favour. and it’s clearly, clearly, you know, we owe the people of zambia a huge gratitude for that. they decided that they wanted change for a better livelihood, given the circumstances that they faced. this was not only merely an election, but a call to action, a call for change. the youth, i must say, who made up 56% of our registered voters, were at the heart of this call for change. i must acknowledge that, and we thank them for that. they showed leadership, courage, determination, at a time when zambia needed those qualities the most because democracy was under threat at that particular time. on a continent where far too often elections turn out violent, but in our country we able to go through a smooth, non-violent transition, once again, because our country has done it several other times since 1991, when we moved from a one-party state control to a democracy; peaceful change then, peaceful change in 2011; peaceful change in 2021. really, credit goes to the people of zambia for being resilient and for their love for democracy. this is what zambia is known for. this is who we are. and we intend to continue on this path on our continent, which sometimes is described negatively – if not sometimes, most of the times, i must say. honourable members, as we reflect on this achievement, i wish to once again express our sincere gratitude to the european union, yourselves, who, together with others, deployed a physical observer mission in our country to observe elections led by one of you here, the honourable member of this house, ms maria arena. thank you to you, madam, and your team. (applause) the observer mission was a continuation of the long-standing relationship that we’ve had with the european union and a clear demonstration of commitment by yourselves to supporting zambia’s democratic process – well acknowledged and appreciated. on behalf of the people of zambia, i wish to place on record our deep sense of gratitude to you in the eu, who once again demonstrated your commitment to walking alongside us in our quest for development under difficult circumstances. we thank you for that. may i address the issues of human rights – human rights, governance and anti-corruption in our country. honourable members, in zambia we inherited a very difficult situation, and zambia at the time of elections was on the brink of economic collapse, where corruption, excess and greed of public officials reigned supreme. no one stood in their way. they got what they wanted, yet they were supposed to be servants of the people, not to be served, but they chose to be served. so much short-sighted policies were put in place, designed to extract maximum benefit for the few at the expense of the many, where the order of the day was basically converting public resources into private hands. really an unacceptable situation. in zambia, we inherited freedom of expression, freedom of association; civic participation was curtailed. our democratic institutions designed to ensure checks and balances were compromised, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of this house, and reduced to mere instruments of dominance for those who held power – very evident. it is against that backdrop that i stand here to firmly attest that the rule of law, following the changes in our elections in august, the rule of law and respect for human rights are a matter of priority in terms of their restoration. and we did just that. one of our major pronouncements after taking office was to indicate to all our citizens that community violence, political thuggery was unacceptable, and anyone who engaged in that from the then ruling party at the time or from our own party would be on their own. and that signified the end of community violence. and today, zambians can move freely at bus stops, at markets, widows, single mothers, trading to take care of their children, without the violence which we experienced only 11 months ago. leadership, in our view, is key in these areas. i must say zambia’s reputation for peace and democracy is a source of great pride to us, which our administration will continue to protect and safeguard. the peace, stability and unity of our beloved nation is not up for any negotiation at any cost. and we want to make sure that as we progress managing public affairs, we strengthen institutions so that in future no one comes again with such heavy handedness. i think it’s important for us to draw the line and ensure that such things don’t become common in future. but we need partners to do that. you are the partners, you are some of the partners. (applause) a free media is indispensable, ladies and gentlemen, to a democratic governance and our administration will protect this fundamental principle of democracy in our national discourse. as you may know – probably you don’t – in the last government so many media houses were shut down. and we committed when we came into office that not a single media house would shut because the government had sacked it; it would shut because it had failed to operate commercially. that would be the only reason, or indeed other reasons, not the political shutdowns which we experienced. we committed to this because it is important to provide checks and balances. every single zambian is welcome to participate in the governance of our country. it is the right of every citizen and our government to lead by listening to the will of the people at all times. honourable members, may i address legislative reform in our country. the state of our country in terms of democratic governance, economic performance and upholding human rights, as i have said already, demands that we take bold action to arrest its decline, which we inherited at the time. this is why we have placed reform at the very top of our agenda; amongst the critical issues that we place particular attention is the legislative reform, as i said, to curtail excesses of the past. it’s important that we don’t just legislate, but we also strengthen institutions, oversight institutions, because it’s not possible to legislate and expect results without – without – actually ensuring compliance. and compliance is better delivered by institutions that will outlast a political party in office – very important to us. honourable members, as part of these reforms and in response to the extensive recommendations, yet again, i must say, by the eu observer mission – i see her still sitting over there – thank you madam, thank you very much – your extensive recommendations by your missions and others our government will undertake, it has already started undertaking significant electoral reforms, electoral reforms that would tackle inherent weaknesses in the system and mainly to progress towards increasing the independence of our electoral commission, our electoral body. because this is important to ensure participation of citizens is guaranteed, transparency is guaranteed at all levels of political competitive elective offices – grassroots, up to the president’s. it’s very important to us. may i comment a little bit about our youth. honourable members, as an administration, we regard our election not as a triumph but as a challenge. very important. our challenge over the next five years is to lay the foundations that will see a prosperous future for zambia’s future generations. it is important to us that we must and we will tap into and enhance the innovation, wonder of the youth who hold enormous potential in developing new and intensive, inventive rather, responses to the challenges that we face as a country. our children and youth are our future, as it is here in europe – no question about it. it is in them that we shall invest in the coming years, invest probably disproportionately higher in skills development amongst our youth, because it is very, very important that we do that. and we want to rebuild our economy and repair the social fabric of our country to create opportunities, as i said, for skills, for jobs, for self-employment, for our youth. this is why our administration has made primary, ladies and gentlemen, and secondary education completely free, even in a challenged environment with a restricted treasury, our first budget delivered free education, universal education for all our children, especially children from disadvantaged families, underprivileged families. (applause) we have a debate going on in zambia at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, where the colleagues in the opposition, probably rightly so, are saying that our policy of free education has failed. and why? because there’s over enrolment in the classrooms. there are more pupils than ever before, before the policy was introduced. and we have responded and said it’s a clear demonstration that children were not in school before the free education policy was implemented. our challenge now is to buy more desks, to build more classroom space, and we are committed to doing that. i think this is the level, the level we see the importance of the youth and tooling, re-tooling the youth for their future development. ladies and gentlemen, coupled with a free education, we have also increased what we call a constituents development fund to basically decentralise resource allocation to match the local priorities of our people in the constituencies, all of the constituencies across the country. and then they will decide what is the priority for development for them. and this government – our government – has allocated resources to allow them to implement those developmental priorities that they’ve decided upon. never happened before. it never happened before us. just to give you a contrast: 11 months ago the constituency development fund in our local currency was zmk 1.6 million – nothing! in our office budget we’ve increased this to zmk 25.7 million, close to usd 1.6 million per constituency to be decided by the local people. it’s fundamental. you may not see it that way here because you are a big economy, but this is basically a life-changer in our country. let me comment a little bit on our economy and zambia-eu cooperation. it’s very important that we comment on this. honourable members, the performance of the zambian economy over the last decade has been on a downward trajectory. the rising cost of basic commodities is the order of the day. the cost of fuel, inflation, poor economic policies – as i mentioned earlier – had basically left our economy on its knees before we took office. our country, yet with so much wealth in terms of potential, was reduced to abject poverty. our people were reduced to abject poverty. this is unacceptable, 58 years after independence. repairing, therefore, restoring and reviving our economy will therefore be the main marker of our government’s performance. that will be the main marker. as a government, we want to make sure that our people are considered first as public servants, which you are yourselves in this parliament. our people come first. we are there to serve, not to be served by them. a clear contrast from the previous regime. this is our priority and the bedrock upon which we want to develop policies around. this is the change that drove us to be ushered into office. and this is it. that’s what we have to work on. we are committed to becoming a more productive and industrious country over the years to come. zambia has a lot of capacity to produce quality goods and services for the eu and other regional and global markets. we therefore seek a favourable trade and investment relationship with yourselves in europe for mutual benefit – very important to us. small and medium enterprises are crucial to us in this regard. we want to make sure that these become part of the building blocks for our economic revival going forward. we look to you, our partners – i shall repeat this – we look to you, our partners, to work with us to establish financial assistance packages that aid research, development, technology and skills that will create new and sustainable zambian small and medium enterprises. we look to working with you as the eu to help us to improve access to credit for smes through initiatives such as the global investment package, which will lead to increased industrialisation, agricultural production, manufacturing, trade and sustainable energy sources for our smes. this is the surest and most sustainable way of creating meaningful employment, and of course diversifying our economy. we are encouraged by the first ever, ladies and gentlemen, we are encouraged by the first ever zambia-eu economic forum, which we recently held in lusaka under the theme ‘economic transformation through green growth’. we’re very, very enthused about this occasion, and it was the first of its kind between the eu and zambia – very, very encouraging to us. this important engagement, which brought together entrepreneurs, corporate institutions, financial institutions from europe, obviously working with our own people, our own enterprises in zambia, is very, very highly appreciated, and we expect that it will become an annual event going forward because we must institutionalise this, we must ensure continuity of the progress that we made. this is in line with our recognition of the private sector as a key driver of our economy, of course with government support; this is a crucial part of our government’s efforts to repair, restore and revive zambia’s economy, anchored around these issues. our government wishes to leverage on these initial steps and ensure that the red tape and other barriers are dealt with. our economy is open for business, ladies and gentlemen, once more, our economy is open for business. zambia is back in business. as you would say it in football here – europe like africa has a love of football – we are back in the champions league. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, food insecurity and climate change, just to address that a little bit. honourable members, as the world faces critical shortages of key agricultural produce and as we witness the devastating effects of food insecurity in all our regions of africa, and beyond, zambia is well-placed. may i remind the house, zambia is well placed and suited and aims to be a major contributor to addressing this insecurity in the food around the world. in this regard, i am pleased to note that zambia and the eu have increasingly collaborated in agricultural endeavours and i urge more collaboration in this important sector. ladies and gentlemen, zambia has the potential to be the solution to food instability in our region, and we intend to work with you to realise this potential. we urge you and our european partners, you are the european partners, as a collective, as the european union, but also as individual member countries, to come on board and explore the numerous opportunities for joint investments in zambia’s agricultural sector – huge potential, good agronomic conditions, soils, sun, you know, clean water, fresh water not saltwater, fresh water. basically a good climate for growing food. as we work to increase our agricultural and industrial output, we are cognizant of a responsibility to do so sustainably – sustainably. this is why our government is taking concrete steps to harness zambia’s potential to develop renewable energy, ladies and gentlemen, as well as sustainable agriculture to mitigate the devastating impacts of climate change. we have created the first ever minister of green economy and environment in our country’s history to dedicate efforts to sustainability as we engage in agriculture, in our quest to develop green energy. we want sustainability to be the order of the day. we are keen to leverage on these areas and to create joint investment opportunities between yourselves and ourselves. honourable members, in pursuit of our economic transformation, we look to cooperating with other partners, you our partners, european partners as a whole, as i said, but also as individual countries. while we appreciate development support from yourselves and others, we look forward to more partnerships, greater investment and trade. this is the most sustainable way to work together, and zambia is up to the task in this area. ladies and gentlemen, let me address the issue of migration. i’m sure you expect me to do that – the issue of migration. honourable members, in enhancing collaboration and partnership on various issues, africa and the eu must take advantage of the presence of the skilled human capital available on both continents – on both continents. (applause) and we are talking about skills from women. the skills from our women, the skills from our youth, who have the energy. these are most desired because they will provide that skilled labour for longer periods of time and help to look after the older skill holders as they retire. i think it’s an important equation to look at. so ladies and gentlemen, honourable members, africa and europe have a lot in common, and our people have a lot to learn from one another. africa and europe have traded with each other for centuries – even in the stone age era, the iron age era the two continents traded with each other. i believe it’s true because we just got separated. if you look at the distance that separates africa and europe, it’s so small. it means at one point we just used to walk over to each other’s village. and obviously the climate over millions of years changed that situation for us. it is important that easing the movement of labour between our continents will, and therefore should, contribute to peer-to-peer knowledge exchange, improve the flow of information and bring about new innovations. putting in place therefore, honourable members, putting in place formal agreements and easing the movement of people between our regions will also assist in reducing illegal and negative migration. no one wants illegal and negative migration, but we must open up formally so that people can move. (applause)if we can be specific, certainly at the moment between zambia and europe and eu individual countries, there’s more movement of people, easy movement of people, from your continent to our country. i think we need to ensure that we really look at this situation together and begin to arrest this problem from source, deal with this negative migration from source, working together. i think it is not healthy to push back people on ships once they have accessed your countries. we can pre-empt that. we can proactively avoid that. i believe we can work together in that sphere. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, we stand ready to channel our resources and energies towards achieving the benefits that are ready to be unlocked for our people in collaborating with yourselves. and i want to repeat, we as a country are open for business. zambia is ready to transact with yourselves. the international monetary fund – honourable members, we strive to deal with one of our challenges, which is debt which we inherited. and we are very, very grateful for the support that the european union has rendered to zambia in unlocking our debt situation. and to that score, we are very pleased that on 16 june, which is only last week, the first creditors’ meeting under the common framework took place. and we want to congratulate and thank france, a member of the european union, and the republic of china that co-chaired the creditors’ meeting. thank you to the european union for your support. but we need you to continue supporting us in resolving our debt crisis. (applause) peace and stability – i’m sure you expect me to address this issue and i want to address it as well, very briefly. peace and security. peace and security. honourable members, zambia has been a bastion of peace and stability in our region and our continent since independence. we aim to maintain this distinguished reputation as we continue to lead and participate in efforts to restore peace in the troubled regions of not just southern africa, but africa and the continent at large. this is extremely important. zambia remains actively involved in the ongoing operations in the northern part of mozambique called cabo delgado, where there’s extremism there. zambia remains engaged on the issues around the conflict between the drc, eastern congo and rwanda. it’s very important that we remain engaged. as the world grapples with instability in various regions, we wish to express most sincerely our government’s concern regarding the ongoing war in ukraine. we are extremely concerned about that situation. it is tragic and heart-breaking to witness the thousands of lives lost and the millions displaced unnecessarily as a result of an altogether avoidable conflict in ukraine. while we stand by those that are directly affected by the war, both in ukraine and in neighbouring countries – our own neighbouring countries and your own – there have been far-reaching consequences arising from this conflict and other conflicts, particularly on food – food security or insecurity, fuel, fertiliser and other commodities. as a country, these three things are challenging our own economic reconstruction efforts. food prices, fuel prices and fertiliser prices, and they are beginning to drive the cost of living, which will impact negatively more on the very poor that we would like to support to improve their living standards. and war is not what we need – anywhere, anywhere, any part of. (applause)we therefore categorically say no to war in ukraine and elsewhere. (applause)and we continue to urge the parties directly and indirectly involved to resolve these matters from the negotiation tables. (applause)that’s the correct way of doing it. as i stated, ladies and gentlemen, in my maiden address to the african union assembly in february this year, and i want to quote myself, then i said, ‘instability anywhere is instability everywhere’. there’s no question about it. we’ve seen that ourselves. (applause)we prefer and we argue to this parliament and beyond this parliament, we prefer to channel, all of us, our resources, energy, indeed time to resolving conflicts in all regions of the world. we should all focus on improving the lives of our people everywhere in our interconnected world instead of waging wars. i must repeat this. we must focus our energies, all of us, on improving the welfare, the lives of our people, children, women, old people, differently abled and other disadvantaged communities, all of us, rather than waging wars across the world. i think that message must go and go straight. (applause)honourable members of the distinguished european parliament, in conclusion, i wish to express once more, i wish to express once more profound gratitude for the support that you rendered personally to me in my difficult times and to the people of zambia during the dark days in our democratic development as a country. thank you very much for your support. we also wish to thank the european parliament for the incredible honour, incredible honour and privilege of addressing this esteemed house today. we are so grateful to you because we know you are busy, you have a lot on your plate, but you allowed us to address you, to listen to us. zambia’s partnership with the eu is built on a strong foundation of mutual respect, shared values and belief in the core tenets of democracy. we look forward to growing this partnership significantly over the years to come, and we are confident of the benefits that our joint efforts will surely yield for our people in zambia and indeed in the european union. i thank you for your kind attention. (sustained applause)
thank you very much, president, for that speech.
before our session, i have one announcement, dear colleagues, before we go to the votes. following the resignation of fernando barrena arza, parliament takes note that, in accordance with the rules of procedure, his seat will be vacant as from 3 september 2022. parliament will inform the national authority accordingly.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes) we move now to the first vote on this historic day for europe. we proceed with this very important joint motion for a resolution before this afternoon’s european council, which will decide on the candidate status of ukraine, the republic of moldova and georgia.
(after the final vote on the joint resolution as a whole) the joint resolution is overwhelmingly adopted. (loud and sustained applause)congratulations, dear colleagues. i will convey this message of the strongest support this afternoon in a few hours at the european council.
rapporteur. – madam president, i thank you all, just a minute of your time to show appreciation for the work that has been carried out by the negotiating team in order not only to respond to the commission’s initiative to extend the current instrument before it comes to its deadline – soon enough, 1 july – but also to improve it in at least two ways. first, by stating the principle that the commission is to assess whether or not it’s needed before the end of the year, according to the latest scientific developments and knowledge. and second, to commit the commission to overview the domestic uses so that we prevent that there are further restrictions for travelling and that all the measures which are adopted are according to the principles of necessity and proportionality.
rapporteur. – madam president, after the council’s last decision we need to update our report. so i would like to present an oral amendment that is supported by the ppe, renew, the greens, the left and the s&d. the oral amendment says, ‘regrets the council’s decision to approve poland’s nrrp; reiterates the parliament’s position that no payment under the rrf can be made in relation to poland’s nrrp before ...’ and then the text. and we also add, ‘considers that the recent polish judiciary reform voted in the polish parliament on 16 june does not fulfil the requirements of milestone f1 in poland’s nrrp’.
that concludes the vote.
dear colleagues, we move to the explanations of vote. so i would request you to leave the room so that we can give space to the 21 members who want to give an explanation of vote.
a uachtaráin, i voted in favour of this resolution concerning the granting of candidate status to ukraine and the republic of moldova and of a european perspective to georgia. while full candidate status has been recommended for ukraine and moldova, it is important that georgia fulfils a number of criteria before such status can be granted. that said, the proposed european perspective for georgia is testament to the continued progress being made by the people and government of georgia in this regard. overall, the commitment of these three countries to european values and ideals has been remarkable, particularly in recent months following the russian invasion of ukraine. the ambition of these countries to accede to the european union has become even clearer. it is my hope that progress can be made on this front as quickly as possible and i am delighted with the positive vote here in parliament today. it must really encourage particularly the unfortunate people of ukraine.
madam president, the eu could have offered ukraine conditional european union membership in exchange for restoring neutrality in ukraine and ending the war in the donbas long before now, in line with the minsk agreement. it would have avoided the present war. the eu has spent eur 15 billion on ‘ukraine’s reform process’ since 2014, and yet only last september, the european court of auditors deemed ukraine the most corrupt country in europe. zelenskyy has now banned nine opposition parties and most of the opposition media. is ukraine a democracy? we need a negotiated peace now. polling shows that the majority of people in europe are in favour of peace rather than just punishing russia. macron, schulz and draghi went to zelenskyy’s ukraine with a view to actually encouraging some negotiation, but were quickly followed by the uk prime minister, boris johnson, who put him off the idea. he wants the us—nato war agenda instead. are we going to let the warmongers ensure the destruction of ukraine? are we going to let the warmongers collapse living standards in the eu and cause the starvation of millions in the global south?
madam president, ‘the goal is an endless war, not a successful war’ – those were the words of julian assange in 2011 in relation to the war in afghanistan, words which could now equally apply about ukraine. ukraine should absolutely be able to join the eu, but on terms that don’t bankrupt its people, and when it’s ready and when a majority of its people choose. but that certainly will not be happening while the country is an active war zone, everybody knows it. so instead, we’re artificially prolonging this war with a steady flow of heavy weapons, attacking peace efforts as appeasement. the eu is guaranteeing a stalemate and ensuring that ukraine will never be able to choose its own path. president von der leyen gave the game away last friday when she said ukrainians are ready to die for the ukrainian perspective. my god, what a deluded narcissist! the real plan here – and we know candidate status is bait in a trap – is to transform ukraine into a meat grinder and use its people as cannon fodder in an endless proxy war against russia, with the european taxpayer footing one bill after another for the arms industry. there’s nothing to celebrate in that!
madam president, i voted for the european future of moldova, ukraine and georgia. now, and like that, we're making history. we show the whole world that we're a people of our word, that we're leaders who know and actually do the right thing. for us, european values are not just on paper. we protect those who protect them. the romanians know what it's like to be invaded by tanks that forget to leave. romania knows what it means to have pieces of yourself taken away at the table of the great. we know that the liberation army actually destroys. in 2022, just like in 1945. we promised we'd never allow that to happen again. we say we're united, we pride ourselves on being strong together. moldova, ukraine and georgia have believed us. the moldovans voted to join the european union. ukrainians are fighting to join the european union. georgians took to the streets by the tens of thousands to join the european union. we have heard their voices and now we have a duty to listen to them.
a uachtaráin, i voted in favour of this report and i had the privilege of speaking on it this morning. one of the points made, particularly by professor krasnodębski, was that a lot of this gas would be russian gas which, as has been pointed out, is no longer reliable. secondly, we probably don’t want – and obviously we’d like to become independent of – russian gas soon as possible. in fairness to ursula von der leyen, she has gone around the world trying to get alternative supplies – japan, kuwait, qatar, etc. but at the same time, in some countries – and particularly my own country – we have an opportunity to build an lng terminal, which the agreement is objecting to. secondly, we have vast resources of gas offshore, which we could utilise pretty quickly. so we’re quite happy for someone else to take it out of the ground and export to us and not to take it out of the ground ourselves. i think in this time of crisis, the commission should look at what resources are there within europe, particularly that we can utilise so that we are not dependent on russian gas and putin won’t be able to put us into a severe position this winter and the following winter.
madam president, i strongly supported the motion for a resolution on the draft amending budget to finance reception costs of people fleeing ukraine. there is no doubt there are about four and a half million people who have left ukraine, fleeing russian military aggression in their country. i was very heartened at the response that the european union came up with in such a short period of time, but particularly the member states that are closest to ukraine itself. i instance the extraordinary efforts of the polish people in trying to accommodate as many ukrainian refugees as is possible. of course, there has been a dispersing of refugees across the entire european union, and i want to commend all of those people that have tried to accommodate ukrainian refugees, either in their own areas, communities or their own homes. but we need to be conscious that this could go on for a prolonged period of time. so we need to be continually reviewing the budget so that we have enough supports in place to ensure that there is no downgrading of facilities, of support to member states that are housing and receiving refugees from ukraine.
madam president, i voted for this report because i’m always in favour of giving money to refugees not just in ukraine, but everywhere. i’m thinking today also of the people of afghanistan who are grappling with a horrific earthquake on top of starvation, sanctions and being blocked out from entry to the european union. we have to end these double standards, but we also have to look at the policies that are making people refugees in the first place – mainly war and climate change. the report bemoans the lack of funds in the multiannual framework that we can use for refugees. that’s fair enough. but why is that the case? it’s because we’re spending billions on the european defence fund, on the misnamed european peace facility, billions to the european coastguard to help drown people in the mediterranean, billions to ensure that the ukrainian war continues rather than working for peace and a negotiated settlement. it was striking that when the president of zambia called for that today, a majority of colleagues sat on their hands. they didn’t want to know. but actually, a negotiated peace is the best way to help the refugees in ukraine.
madam president, we voted for environmental protection today, we voted against illegal logging, against loggers and organized crime groups that destroy our lives. we're seeing extreme weather all over europe. it's just the beginning. our children have no future if we don't act now. illegal logging triggers a chain reaction. it's scientifically proven, and we all know it. yet, there are still politicians who put the health of the people, profit and their own benefits ahead of their own. but wealth will not protect him from what is coming. there are still parties who believe that in their country there is no illegal logging, no waste, no poaching, but pollution knows no borders, dear colleagues. those who don't understand that are voting against their own citizens. those who oppose the punishment of environmental offenders do so at the expense of our health and our children. these politicians forget that there is no private ozone. you can't buy clean air, clean water or unpoisoned land.
madam president, the report’s proposal for a new governance scheme for the sustainable development goals at eu level is positive and ambitious. the emphasis on the well—being of the economy and the need for the commission to quickly deliver the beyond—gdp indicators is welcome. however, the report ignores the fundamental problem with the sdgs themselves. goal number 8 calls for continued global economic growth equivalent to 3% per year to achieve the human development objectives. the sdgs assume that efficiency improvements will be enough to reconcile the tension between growth and ecological sustainability. of course, regional development in the global south must continue, but global economic growth is incompatible with many environmental targets. even if absolute decoupling of growth from resource consumption is theoretically possible, its success must be measured in terms of climate targets and whether it fits with limiting global warming by 1.5 degrees. there is simply no scientific basis for not questioning the growth imperative.
madam president, the recovery and resilience facility is a very important fund and it is there to ensure that economies can grow again and can invest in services. but we have to also be honest. we can’t have this as a bargaining chip on the fundamental principles of equality, of independence of the judiciary, independence of the media, and fundamental freedoms. oppression of the lgbtq community and oppression of women in certain countries is now something that’s beginning to happen again. the idea that we would actually negotiate the most fundamental rights that are the pillars on what europe is about with regard to the recovery and resilience facility is, in my view, very unacceptable. the countries that made applications to the recovery and resilience fund knew in advance of making those applications their obligations to fundamental rights, their obligations to ensure that they eked out corruption in their countries, that they followed the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the media, and that there would be no oppression of minority groupings. that is not happening in every country. particularly in the context of poland and hungary, they have a long road to travel, and the idea that we would make these funds available to countries that don’t comply is very regrettable.
madam president, i was very proud to vote in favour of this report, and particularly the inclusion measures contained in this. the erasmus+ programme is a wonderful programme. it does allow young people to travel, to live, to learn, to love across europe. many irish people have had that beautiful benefit of being able to study abroad, and we also welcome people to ireland from other parts of europe. it does give people a really grounded basis of what europe is about and it opens up opportunities. but it needs to be opened up more. i believe it’s too restrictive in the sense that people who access it primarily are coming through the third—level system. i’d like to see it opened up into areas where people are studying in the trade sector and in the technological area as well. so i’d like to see that broadening of the base and to ensure that people with disabilities and from minority backgrounds also have access to this particular programme. it would be wrong of us if we were just to contain this to those that are going through the formal third—level process as well. it is a wonderful programme and most young european citizens should have an opportunity of being able to embrace it in some way or another, rather than just through the formal third—level process itself.
madam president, the relation of the eu to the continent of africa has been, and still is, one of brutal capitalist exploitation in the service of maintaining western corporate profits. this criminal history cemented in place a structure of intentional de—development that saw the enormous wealth of africa flow directly into european coffers for hundreds of years, and little has changed. the unmentioned spirit haunting the aspirational language in this text is china. china has approached many african countries with more attractive ways of doing business, and if europe wants to compete, it’s going to have to change its approach. if all the recommendations in this report were followed to the letter, the world would be a better place. but the report does not go nearly far enough. there is no mention of france’s colonial currency, no mention of debt cancellation. we are continuing to pauperise the global south. we enrich ourselves at their expense morning, noon and night.
madam president, i voted for the report also. i’d like to compliment my left colleagues who acted as rapporteurs. there’s a lot of really good stuff in it about safeguarding food sovereignty, preventing deforestation and degradation, and many more issues. but the truth is, it’s a million miles from the reality of eu—africa trade policy as it exists now, because our economic relations with africa are simply a continuation of european colonialism perpetuating exploitation by other means. africa trades more with europe than it does with itself. it’s portrayed as a poor continent, but actually it’s the richest. it’s just that the people there are denied the fruits of their land and their labour by unequal economic relations, by unfair trade rules, by illicit capital flights into western banks, and by multinational corporations allowed off the leash by washington, london and brussels. this report would begin to change that. but i think it would take a revolution to actually make that a reality.
that concludes the oral explanations of vote.
the minutes of the sessions of yesterday and today will be given to the parliament for adoption at the beginning of the next session. so if there are no objections, i convey the resolutions adopted in today’s session without delay to those entities and persons that are mentioned in the resolutions.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 23 june 2022.
so, dear colleagues, we are here today, a day after a horrific shooting in copenhagen where three people were murdered in a shopping mall after being shot by an armed assailant. i think i speak for everyone here when i say our thoughts are with all the victims, their families and everyone in copenhagen. denmark, we are with you. yesterday, we also saw the terrible news emerge of a mountain glacier collapsing in the alps in italy, leaving at least six persons dead, eight injured and twenty missing. experts have told us that the warming temperature means that the entire glacier is under threat. the horrible tragedy in the dolomites between the northern italian regions of trentino and veneto has shocked all of us. and i wanted to use this opportunity to offer our deepest condolences and those of the european parliament to those affected. i would like to ask you, dear colleagues, to join us in having a minute of silence. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sittings of 22 and 23 june are available. are there any comments? that does not seem to be the case, and therefore the minutes have been approved.
the imco and econ committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the reports which constitute the mandates for the negotiations are available on the plenary webpage, and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2) members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, tuesday 5 july at midnight, that the decisions to enter into negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament on the decisions to enter into negotiations is made within the aforementioned deadline, the committees may start the negotiations.
in relation to the decision by the pech committee to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) – announced on wednesday 22 june – i have received no requests for a vote in parliament, and the committee may therefore start its negotiations.
i would also like to inform you that since the adjournment of parliament’s session on 23 june, i have signed, together with the president of the council, four acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure, in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules of procedure. i would like also to inform you that on wednesday i shall sign together with the president of the council, one act adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of the sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents on 30 june pursuant to rule 157, has been distributed. i will just inform you that i have received three requests for urgent procedure, respectively, from the tran committee, the council and the commission, pursuant to rule 163 on the following legislative files: first, russia’s invasion of ukraine, temporary measures concerning drivers’ documents issued by ukraine. second, identification of the violation of union restrictive measures as crimes under article 83(1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. and third, exceptional macro-financial assistance to ukraine. the vote on these requests will be taken tomorrow. we now move to changes requested by political groups, but i see that there is a point of order with mr gusmão.
thank you very much mr gusmão. thanks for the information, and of course we are doing everything we can. and i am also involved in making sure that there is a quick resolution to the ongoing discussions, and i am personally committed to that, i can assure you. we come to the requests by the political groups. for tuesday, the id group has asked that council and commission statements on ‘judicial cooperation in europe in the light of the french court decision blocking extradition of italian terrorists’ be added as the third item in the afternoon. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended until 23.00. i give the floor to anna bonfrisco to move this request.
(parliament rejected the request) president. – also for tuesday, the id group has asked that a commission statement on ‘the recent unrest in uzbekistan’ be added as the last item in the afternoon. as a consequence, the sitting would be extended until 23.00. i give the floor to bernhard zimniok to move the request on behalf of the id group.
(parliament rejected the request) president. – for wednesday, the id group has asked that the council and commission statements on ‘the uk government’s unilateral introduction of the northern ireland protocol bill and respect for international law’ – which is scheduled as the first item in the afternoon – be postponed to a later part-session and be replaced by council and commission statements on ‘overcoming current structural deficiencies in the passenger aviation sector’. i give the floor to annalisa tardino to move the request on behalf of the id group.
thank you, ms tardino. i give the floor to clare daly, who has asked to speak on this point.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i’d like to thank colleagues for the suggestion. there’s no doubt about it: the crisis in aviation is having devastating consequences on citizens and workers alike, and it is something that can’t wait until september. but equally, the uk’s unilateral introduction of the northern ireland protocol and the implications for international law cannot wait either. so we would have a counter-proposal that we would maintain the discussion on the northern ireland protocol, but add a debate on the aviation situation for thursday morning with a round of group speakers and that the session would therefore start at 8.30, and we would therefore hope that everybody could live with that counter-proposal.
madam president, the us supreme court has dealt a devastating blow to abortion rights. it’s a dark development and could have been prevented. in 2008, when obama was canvassing for election he promised that: ‘the first thing i’ll do’, he said, ‘as president, is sign the freedom of choice act’. yet, just a year later, he said, ‘the freedom of choice act is not my highest legislative priority.’ the hypocrisy was scary. now we have a supreme court that the far-right has packed with christian fanatics, and still the democrats have made no real effort to protect abortion rights. it makes clear what we’ve known for a long time: it doesn’t really matter which corporate-owned party is in power in america – be it republican or democrat – human rights are now being dismantled and the democrats have refused to call the republicans to heel. they’re too busy waging war themselves and prosecuting journalists for exposing war crimes. this is a human right. how can we listen to the americans talk about anyone else’s treatment of human rights?
the honourable chairman, ladies and gentlemen, idi amin, the dictator of uganda, once said: "i guarantee freedom of speech, but i do not guarantee freedom after speech". in other words, this dictator told his citizens that they could say what they thought, but that if he didn't like it, he would put them in jail. so some of our colleagues who call themselves liberals and are in principle in favour of freedom of speech, today when the facts, the scientific facts are clear, when it is known that life, that the heart of a child starts beating on the 20th day of pregnancy, that it is not a woman's body but another organism with a different genetic structure, that the right to abortion is not a fundamental human right, is not written anywhere, today, when all this is known, then our colleagues would deprive us all of freedom of speech, the freedom to say what we think. yes, it's an emotional decision. when it comes to a vulnerable child, when it comes to a woman, a pregnant woman who's having economic problems and we can help, of course it's about emotions. but it is a rational decision that we can and must make together in freedom.
madam president, vicious divisions in us society have again been exposed in the aftermath of the decision to overturn roe v. wade and the devastating impact on access to safe abortion. because we know, of course, that outlawing abortion does not lead to a reduction in abortion, but only to a reduction in safe abortion, endangering women’s lives in the process. and as somebody coming from ireland, where we only in recent years got rid of our ban, we know that women pay with their lives. and we have to revisit this constant mantra that the us are our like-minded partners. really? is it like-minded of eu values that we would like-mind ourselves with a society where women are condemned as second-class citizens, denied the right to bodily integrity by a politically appointed judiciary. and it’s all very well president biden saying he’d like to codify the legislation. well, why didn’t the democrats do it when they had the chance? it’s their failure. it’s another political failure. collective action and solidarity by ordinary people is the only way to deliver on this and in that, they have our full support.
madam president, commissioner johansson, dear colleagues, what happened in melilla last weekend is a real tragedy that evokes the sympathy of us all. those lives should not have been lost. border guards, however, cannot be blamed for protecting borders against illegal entries. blaming those who are only doing their job is the wrong approach. instead, we have to name those who bear the real political responsibility for such tragedies. let me make this very clear: the political responsibility lies with pro—migration politicians, pro—migration ngos and other advocates of an open society who have been encouraging illegal migration towards europe for many years. those forces constantly attack the legitimate border—protection efforts of member states and create the false impression that people can illegally come to europe and then just stay. the only result of their fanatical actions is that lives are constantly put at risk in the mediterranean, in the balkans and elsewhere. if we want to avoid similar tragedies, pro-migration political actions must come to an end.
madam president, a clear example of the gravity of what happened on 25 june on the spanish-moroccan border is that today, nine days later, i cannot pay tribute to those people by pronouncing their names. i don't know how many died there either. they've been bumping into a police action, on both sides of the border, that demands an immediate and independent investigation. it is urgent to identify the victims - "human beings like us" - to repatriate their bodies, clarify the facts, establish responsibility, establish reparation measures and prevent impunity and the repetition of similar acts. but this incident also reminds us of two things: we must deepen cooperation in the medium and long term, and the common vision 2030 that emerged from the last africa-european union summit is a good starting point that must be completed by correcting the economic and social result of our colonial past with fairer trade relations. in the meantime, we need humanitarian aid and prevention so that these massacres do not happen again. and more sharing. the reproaches of those who know that fences are not the solution only benefit the far right who point to them as the only strategy.
madam president, the eu spends billions paying lawless militias and third countries to intercept, sometimes kill, arrest and detain migrants and refugees indefinitely in inhumane conditions. this is to ensure that they cannot reach the eu, where they can avail of international law rights due to them. eu countries were among the most brutal when it came to genocidal colonialism in the past. today we maintain a system of capitalist exploitation, theft and crushing debt arrangements that inhibit the ability of many former colonies to provide basic public services for their own people. and if people try to leave this cage that we have made for them and come to the land that survives on their stolen futures, they face the most extreme hurdles imaginable. the deaths at melilla were border killings: fortress europe has been causing death at our borders for a long time. what has happened to our humanity?
madam president, moroccan border forces are funded directly by the eu. when they carry out a massacre of 37 people on the eu’s borders, the eu bears responsibility, and we have a responsibility to call it out, because it’s not an accident: it’s a consequence of the eu’s reliance on third countries to prevent people from arriving in the eu, exercising their right under international law to seek asylum, in many instances fleeing from wars and unequal trade caused by europe in the first place. so now we have spain hiding behind morocco, as greece blames turkey. but the truth is, it’s eu member states that are responsible for murder and the violation of human rights. did the people in melilla injure themselves? where is the condemnation of the police? where is the call for the investigations into the burials to avoid scrutiny? is it any wonder that lithuania has now come out and said it’s going to ignore the ecj in these matters when the commission has stood by and done nothing except encourage rampant lawlessness and racism on our borders? it simply isn’t good enough.
president, commissioners, colleagues, we must not underestimate the historical importance of the digital services act and the digital markets act. this is the first jumbotron of legislation to regulate big tech anywhere in the world. it will provide a solid foundation for our online world in the 21st century to make it more fair and transparent in the future. we can be proud as a parliament because we have been the ones to close the back doors. we have increased the protection of minors. we have already seen positive signals in recent weeks from the platforms that are working on this new regulation. but implementation and enforcement are really going to be crucial. as always, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. parliament will closely monitor the commission and the member states' compliance with their obligations so that the digital markets act and the digital services act will really bring about a change of mindset on the ground.
mr. chairman, please! commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i confess that i speak today with a unique sense of a true historical event. with the adoption of both the digital markets and digital services acts, the eu is the first in the world to end the 'wild west' of the internet giants and to embark on a path towards a precise and transparent regulatory framework where the rights of internet users are protected, the needs of businesses are respected, economic growth is facilitated and competition in the single market is enhanced. and at the same time, big tech is responsible for its actions. i believe that the fight against disinformation, which is a very powerful weapon in today's world, is particularly important. i hope that the emergency response mechanism will allow us to better resist fake news and manipulation. both these acts also, among other things, make online shopping safer by better identifying sellers or checking products sold.
mr president, with this digital package, we have achieved the impossible. i would therefore like to thank margrethe vestager, thierry breton, all my colleagues and the french presidency of the council. a more open and competitive market, more protection for our citizens, more tools against illegality and disinformation, more transparency of algorithms: this is great. we take full responsibility as the union for the digital transition. we act as global standard-setters and strengthen our digital sovereignty and the rule of law. now, two main priorities: to ensure the full and effective implementation of all the new rules as quickly as possible and to put our model at the centre of our relations with all our global partners - starting with the united states of america - to explain and promote it. this is the whole point of our commitment and i am sure we will meet again.
mr president, i think the dsa really was a chance for the eu to regulate the hyper-centralised digital sphere and to crack down on the harmful business model of big tech that so much feeds off the exploitation of the billions of users’ personal data. but we have to be honest about it. the attempt to create a digital constitution and to protect our online fundamental rights has largely failed. it really has. we’ve only chipped away at the immense power of online monopolies. we don’t have the right to opt out of targeted surveillance advertising. we don’t have the right not to use digital services anonymously. and there’s no alternative to the toxic content algorithms that shape our online world and information and cause so much damage to people’s mental health. so democratising the digital sphere is going to take collective action. we’ve got to hold the tech giants to account – their wielding of addictive, obsessive platforms, it’s just not good enough. it’s motivated by profit and not people’s interests.
president, commissioner, colleagues, we cannot build a true union of equality if half of our population – women – are disproportionately at risk of poverty. it is unsustainable and unacceptable. take, for example, single parents: 85% of single parents in the eu are women and an astounding 42% of single parent families are at risk of poverty. and the risk of poverty is only growing for women. i want to highlight the situation of older women. the gender pay gap in europe is currently 39%. that means, on average, women have 39% less than men in their pensions. we cannot have a situation where women are living in poverty as they retire and grow older. we have to do more, as has been said in the report, to close the gender pay gap, including recognising and acknowledging blocks of time that women spend caring for relatives and children. of course, access to employment remains a key issue in the new industries, particularly in ai and technology. we have to ensure that young women take up those stem subjects. it’s so important. this is one of the ways we will deal with this phenomenon of women in poverty. there is no reason for anyone in europe to be living in poverty in the 21st century. we must stamp out this 19th century phenomenon.
madam president, i think the simple truth is that the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union cannot provide a sustainable solution to women’s poverty in our economy. we see widespread, atypical and precarious working conditions, with the dismantling of social security systems being a huge contributing factor to the problems. and the only solution to eradicating women’s poverty is to strengthen collective representation, effective collective agreements, minimum wages and the right to a decent job with pay and conditions. our priority, in that sense, should be to restrict the circumstances in which precarious contracts can be used, not to encourage them. and yet here we are meeting when our interpreters, a majority of whom are women, have had to take action to defend their working conditions. they are being forced to use equipment which doesn’t meet the necessary standards to protect their health; 100 out of 250 of them have health problems; and when they serve strike notice the parliament moves to bring in strike-breakers and outsource labour. if we want to protect dignity in working women’s rights, let’s protect our own workers first.
madam president, i welcome aspects of the report in addressing poverty gaps in europe. yet, i fear it’s not enough for the most economically marginalised groups in our societies across europe: migrants. the treatment of migrants in europe is a humanitarian crisis, there’s no question about it. non-eu migrants, and in particular migrant women, experience significant limitations in access to the labour market, shocking levels of homelessness and impoverished living conditions in refugee camps. women refugees in europe face double discrimination. things are not much better in ireland, where we have rightly welcomed ukrainian refugees and treat them well. migrants and refugees of a different colour and religion have been herded into areas called direct provision centres, which are essentially a form of state-sanctioned poverty. when we talk of women’s poverty in europe, spare a thought for the women in ireland’s direct provision centres.
madam president, i welcome the broad thrust of the report, but there’s no doubt we have a long way to go in terms of working conditions and gender pay equality. at the outset, a lot of our legislation is weak in these particular areas to defend and vindicate the rights of women, but equally in terms of access to education, access to credit, access to housing, access to health and reproductive rights. these are all issues that are contingent on member states either giving or not giving, and they should be mandatory obligations at this stage in terms of certain guarantees and fundamental rights. so when we talk about education, young women with a number of children are unable to access further education, in many cases. they are unable to access proper housing provision. they are unable to access the workplace simply because their conditions are not protected in legislation. so when we talk about equality, when we talk about the gender pay gap, we do have obligations in this house; but, equally, member states – where the competency still lies in many areas around legislation on employment – have a lot to do and we should hold them accountable equally across the european union.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, we all agree in this house that women’s poverty does not have a place in europe – nor in the world, i would say. this is why the commission is strongly committed to reducing inequalities and eradicating poverty and the particular impact on women it can have. from today’s debate, it is clear that the ultimate solution cannot be found in a single instrument. instead, many policies need to contribute to tackle women’s increased risk of poverty and ensure an equal economic empowerment of women and men. the fight against women’s poverty is a joint responsibility. i would like to thank the european parliament for being a steady ally in our efforts to ensure a europe of equality.
in writing. a total of 64.6 million women and 57.6 million men are living in poverty in the member states today. these figures from eurostat are absolutely unbearable, and they are driven by women, but also by children, because we know that women's poverty particularly affects single-parent families, which are made up of single mothers with small children. and this scourge, already sadly present in the union, in 2020 due to the covid-19 pandemic, and most recently, with the increase in energy prices as a result of the war in ukraine, has further worsened. it is important to remember, however, that women's poverty is multidimensional and often the result of discrimination caused by cultural stereotypes that are difficult to unravel, often resulting not only in material deprivation but also in lack of access to various resources and services that effectively limit women's ability to fully enjoy their rights as citizens. more decisive action is therefore needed at both national and union level: the announced european strategy to combat poverty for 2030 will need to set concrete and ambitious targets to end female poverty and break the intergenerational cycle of poverty risk once and for all.
in writing. as statistics show, the gender gap on poverty levels has widened in 21 member states since 2017, and in 2020 the risk of poverty or social exclusion in the eu was higher for women than for men. given the gender gap in already many other areas, it is incomprehensible to me how there is a gender gap and inequality in poverty levels. we demand specific public policies to address the structural gender inequalities that cause and/or exacerbate poverty among women. the consequences of poverty on women are profound. for example, women's poverty has a direct impact on those whose lives face the harshest constraints due to poverty, and more specifically on children. i believe it is important to mainstream the gender dimension at all levels of the eu budgetary process so that revenue and expenditure are transformed into social investments, to achieve gender equality objectives such as combating women's poverty.
in writing. women's poverty is a major equality problem in europe that needs to be addressed. the proportion of women living in poverty in europe is higher than that of men. the list of reasons is sadly long: gender pay and pension gaps, gendered caring responsibilities, female dominated sectors such as care, underpayment or the concentration of single-parent care on women. all these are structural problems that are still persistently affecting our societies. the coronavirus pandemic only exacerbated the situation, with many jobs lost in female-dominated sectors and working conditions in the female-dominated nursing sector becoming significantly more difficult. women are often disproportionately and against their will in precarious employment relationships. the proportion of women in parttime, low-wage, fixed-term and zero-wage contracts is also high. poverty is for every person, whether women, men or others, suffering and wrong. no one should have to live in poverty. however, poverty, like other social phenomena, exposes women in particular to particularly difficult and dangerous situations. for example, women living in poverty are more vulnerable to exploitation or trafficking and other forms of violence against women. this is reinforced, for example, when poverty leads to homelessness. the report by the european parliament on this subject proposes good solutions, such as an intersectional approach to the labour market, data collection, promoting equal pay and encouraging women to enter stem fields. the promotion of equal pay is one of the most important instruments, which is why we must, in the trilogue negotiations, achieve a directive on pay transparency as soon as possible. the report also calls on the member states to abolish the taxation of women's hygiene products, i.e. menstrual protection products. menstrual poverty is a serious problem in the lives of many women.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues and counter-rapporteurs for their cooperation. we have worked really hard to create a comprehensive european parliament position that will be reflected in the eu-interpol agreement being negotiated by the european commission. i also thank the advisors, the libe secretariat and the assistants for their support. the fruit of our good cooperation is the own-initiative report, which was adopted almost unanimously at last week's libe meeting. terrorism and organised crime remain one of the most important and at the same time most serious security challenges today. these are transnational, global phenomena, characterised by extremely dangerous dynamics and using the latest advances in technology and digitalisation. this calls for a firm response and more effective, coordinated cooperation between the european union and international law enforcement bodies such as the international criminal police organisation interpol. such cooperation shall ensure security and provide the necessary framework to combat transnational crime. the european union is already cooperating with interpol. however, there are areas where this cooperation can be strengthened and, above all, formalised, as interpol has not yet signed such a cooperation agreement with the union. the own-initiative report shall be a list of recommendations for the negotiation of a cooperation agreement with interpol. key ones include granting eu agencies access to interpol databases, ensuring compliance with european data protection rules when data is transferred between the union and interpol, and calling for reform of the red notice procedure. since the processing of red notices is not sufficiently transparent, there is ample evidence that this procedure is being abused and exploited by countries that wish to persecute, silence and repress their opponents abroad. and last but not least, russia's exclusion from interpol and its denial of access to its databases. russian aggression, the unwarranted invasion of ukraine, where russia is committing the crime of genocide, is reason enough to exclude russia from interpol. in addition, russia is one of the main issuers of politically motivated red notes. law enforcement cooperation must be based on trust and must be maintained. interpol should therefore take immediate and decisive measures to exclude the russian federation. i hope that in tomorrow's vote you will support the report.
madam president, i have to say i think there are a lot of good provisions in this agreement, but it is debased by the insertion of geopolitical interests, which have no part in neutral international cooperation agreements. now, interpol has a huge responsibility to ensure proper verification of information, judicial redress and compliance with fundamental data rights. it should be organised on a rules-based cooperation to protect citizens, but it’s well known that governments in many parts of the world are abusing its systems to pursue their critics, whether they be asylum seekers, journalists or political opponents. but interpol is supposed to be above all that. it’s supposed to share information in compliance with the founding principles of neutrality and to protect human rights in tackling international crime. and to that end, the report’s call to suspend russia and belarus from interpol membership actually disturbs interpol’s concept of political neutrality. the speaker made the point that on the basis of war crimes, russia should be excluded. well, so should ukraine, so should the us. that’s not a way forward. we shouldn’t be instrumentalising every discussion.
madam president, people are saying that we shouldn’t allow russia to use interpol to fight political opponents. but i mean if you ban russia from the interpol system, what are you doing? is it not the same thing? listen, i condemn the russian invasion of ukraine as well. i think it’s terrible the things that are happening. russia is behaving like an imperialist power, doing what it likes in ukraine. but come on, are these the only ones you are going to throw stones at? why weren’t the americans thrown out of interpol when they killed a million citizens in iraq? a million innocent civilians! why weren’t they thrown out of interpol? why aren’t saudi arabia and the uae and the americans and the french and the uk, for supporting the genocide in yemen today? are you going to throw them out of interpol? you’re making a joke of interpol if you’re going to use it as a political football yourselves. that doesn’t make any sense!
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, dear rapporteur wiśniewska, the commission welcomes and shares the views of the european parliament that terrorism and serious and organised crime require a robust response. and we need a more effective and coordinated eu cooperation with international law enforcement authorities and bodies such as interpol. we reflected on the important role of interpol in police cooperation and information exchange and the eu security union strategy and the eu counter-terrorism agenda. we need a cooperation agreement with interpol because interpol is very important for the eu member states. it provides the default channel to exchange law enforcement information with third countries. this information is crucial for the internal security of the member states and the eu as a whole. interpol provides information on third-country criminals or eu criminals fleeing to third countries. despite existing cooperation with interpol, there are areas where cooperation could and should be stepped-up or even set up new areas – the aim being to better support member states in preventing and combating terrorism and organised crime. these operational needs, notably as regards cooperation between interpol and our relevant agencies and bodies: europol, frontex, eurojust and the eppo, requires concluding a cooperation agreement with interpol. interpol will also be an indispensable partner in achieving high standards, especially when it comes to data processing and data protection. in fact, data protection is at the core of the agreement. the agreement will have to comply fully with the relevant provisions on data protection stemming from eu law and fully respect fundamental rights and principles. concerning the abuse of interpol’s systems for political purposes, the commission considers that supporting and reinforcing the mechanism established at interpol – such as, for instance, its independent commission for the control of files, or its dedicated task force to screen every red notice or diffusion before publication, would guarantee that interpol’s systems would be used only to achieve its aim, which is to support and facilitate international law enforcement cooperation. during its negotiations with interpol, the commission will explore ways to incorporate the recommendations of the european parliament and will endeavour to meet parliament’s expectations and address its concerns as regards the need to enhance the safeguards and transparency of interpol, while, of course, following the negotiation mandate given by the council and finding solutions that will work for both parties to the agreement. please be assured that the commission is committed to keep the parliament fully informed on the upcoming negotiations.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, it’s my great pleasure indeed to introduce this report to the czech mep only few days after the czech republic took over the presidency in the eu council and also as a vice-chairman of the international trade committee, only a few days after you successfully concluded trade negotiations with new zealand, and indeed we have had a number of national strategies vis-à-vis indo-pacific, also communications from european institutions. we already have recognised that the indo-pacific region has become a geopolitical and geo-economic reality, and together europe and the indo-pacific represent over 70% of global trade in goods and services and over 60% of foreign direct investments. we have four bilateral trade agreements in place. we have five strategic partnerships and two connectivity partnerships. we have also several countries in the indo-pacific with tariff preferences under the gsp and gsp+ schemes. we have also witnessed a growing geopolitical competition between us-china, changing a geopolitical shift and global order. and we have also seen new legal frameworks in the region like comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans-pacific partnership (cptpp) while by the way, us withdrew while china, taiwan and the uk formally submitted a request to accede and also regional comprehensive economic partnership (rcep) which entered into force in january 2022 and created the world’s largest trading bloc. so the time is up to define and summarise our relations to that region, particularly in the situation where geopolitical reality has dramatically changed since russia’s invasion of ukraine. we are therefore calling on the commission to strengthen partnership with all relevant actors in the indo-pacific, taking into consideration subregional dynamics and specificities. we should use better and more strategically our economic leverage while respecting the political and economic specificities of our partners and their interests. we also coordinate our indo-pacific strategy with recently adopted eu global gateway strategy, and we should better use already existing treaties like that one between eu and south korea, singapore, japan and vietnam. and we also should raise awareness among businesses, stakeholders, civil society, social partners and citizens of these existing ftas in the region and the opportunities they provide. we are calling for substantive progress in negotiations on the eu-australia after new zealand has been already concluded. india, i will leave to my dear colleague mr bourgeois. and when it comes to china, we know that china is a cooperation partner, but also a competitor and also a systemic rival, and it’s necessary to continue engaging with china to promote solutions to common challenges. when it comes to taiwan, we should cooperate in green technology and digital economy while respecting one china policy. we are on a good track with indonesia, not on a very good track with the philippines, malaysia and thailand and almost everything is frozen with myanmar and cambodia. so we have to continue and to make some progress. and last but not least, we also further engage with asean. we should use the momentum of the planned eu-asean summit in 2022, and we also should have a new strategic approach towards cptpp and also thoroughly monitor the direct economic effects of the rcep. i very much believe that this report will set a positive and encouraging atmosphere for the commission, for the council and for strategy of individual member states.
madam president, i welcome the report as well, and it was glad to hear the rapporteur bring a bit of common sense to the equation and also respect the one china policy. it’s a bit of a contrast to what we had to listen to at the madrid summit, where nato listed china as one of its strategic priorities for the first time, saying ‘beijing’s ambitions and its coercive policies challenged the western bloc’s interests, security and values’. and its secretary-general, jens stoltenberg, went on to say china is ‘substantially building up its military forces, including nuclear weapons, bullying its neighbours and threatening taiwan’. my god, i mean, these are our biggest trading partner and we want to fight with the chinese. what’s in it for us? the chinese haven’t dropped the bomb on anyone in 40 years. the americans still spend three times more than they do on military hardware. what’s wrong with us? are they in the ocean of america? i don’t think so.
madam president, i too would welcome the balance introduced in the report by the rapporteur. i think it was very welcome because all too often now the warmongers in nato would appear to have captured the eu, and as somebody from a neutral country i find that quite offensive: nato has come to view china as a security threat, describing its policies as a challenge to the alliance’s interests, accusing the chinese government of seeking to make friends, whether through economic support or alliance building, in order to undermine what has been the western alliance in the indo-pacific. now, what absolute cheek: countries in this region should be sovereign to make decisions about who to trade with. this is china’s front yard and they’re entitled to develop cordial relations with their neighbours, and i’m glad they’re doing it with trade rather than with guns. and of course, that’s not good enough for nato. they want to invite the asia-pacific four into the nato summit, stoking up division as they did in ukraine. i hope this time round we will resist.
member of the commission. – thank you madam president, we welcome the draft report on the indo-pacific strategy in the area of trade and investment. and i thank the rapporteur, mr zahradil, and all shadow rapporteurs who have contributed. as underlined in your report, the indo-pacific region is of strategic importance for the eu. this is accentuated with the adoption of the eu’s indo-pacific strategy last year, which highlights the strategic relevance of the indo-pacific for europe. the region’s growing economic, demographic and political weight makes it an important partner for the eu and a geopolitically significant player in addressing global challenges. the eu’s strategic engagement in the indo-pacific is designed to promote respect for international law and access to open markets. this will entail a further deepening and diversification of our trade and investment ties and collaboration to help accelerate the green and digital transitions and spur innovation and connectivity. in today’s challenging, competitive and often turbulent geopolitical environment, it is essential that we strengthen trade and political links with the region. this has become even more relevant in view of russia’s invasion of ukraine. therefore, it is vital to work closely with the region to reinforce and diversify value and supply chains, especially with a focus on technologies and raw materials, and to finalise ongoing trade negotiations. in this context, our general approach is the following: the eu so far has concluded ambitious and comprehensive trade agreements with japan, the republic of korea, singapore and vietnam. their implementation is making a clear difference, and they have led to a noticeable increase in bilateral trade flows. negotiations for similarly ambitious agreements with other countries in the region are progressing. we notably sealed an agreement with new zealand just last week, while negotiations with australia are picking up pace. talks with indonesia may be concluded subsequently. with india, we resumed negotiations in june. the eu’s objective is to negotiate an ambitious and comprehensive trade agreement modelled on the most recent eu trade deals. this would notably include market access for goods, services and government procurement, digital trade, intellectual property rights, as well as ambitious provisions on trade and sustainable development. in parallel, negotiations would also aim at concluding separate agreements on investment protection and geographical indications. turning to south-east asia, we remain very committed to engaging with asean, and we are moving forward with individual ftas as building blocks for a future wider region-to-region engagement. we remain very interested in the possible resumption of trade negotiations with malaysia, the philippines and thailand, once the conditions are right and with the eventual negotiation of a region-to-region trade agreement as a longer-term objective. in addition, i would like to highlight that our trade policy strategy also proposes alternatives to traditional trade agreements. the aim is, for instance, to prevent and diminish market access barriers by fostering more regulatory alignment through regulatory cooperation. in that context, and as your draft report rightly insists, we want to create a network of digital partnerships. a digital partnership with japan was launched in may, and the partnerships with korea and singapore are planned to follow later this year. the economic and geopolitical importance of sustainable connectivity and the digital economy is one of the priorities defined in the indo-pacific strategy, and the eu is now actively committed to translating it into concrete action. in the area of connectivity, the eu will aim to promote all dimensions of connectivity with indo-pacific partners in a strategic manner, building on the global gateway strategy. furthermore, with the new connectivity strategy launched on the 1 december 2021, the eu is stepping up its offer to help partners around the world meet their needs in increasing investment in both hard and soft infrastructure and beyond, thereby promoting democratic values, human rights and high standards such as good governance and transparency. on taiwan, i would like to highlight that we have worked with our taiwanese counterparts to modernise eu-taiwan trade and investment engagement and expand our discussions to strategic topics linked to trade and security. the resulting eu-taiwan trade and investment dialogue took place for the first time on the 2 june, co-chaired by the director-general of dg trade and the taiwanese minister of economic affairs. at the dialogue, the eu and taiwan agreed to work together on the monitoring of supply chains for semiconductors, and we agreed to deepen cooperation on export controls, fdi screening, while working towards solutions to market access concerns. the commission welcomes this report and we believe that eu involvement in the indo-pacific region has become more relevant than ever, not only to advance our interests, but also to promote the rules-based international order and promote global standards on sustainable development. the commission looks forward to working together with the european parliament on this very important agenda.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur. india is going to be a massive player. it will probably have the biggest population in the world pretty soon; i think it’ll outpace china for population. it’s a developing economy and i think the eu could develop a very good, healthy relationship with india. there’s obviously things that we need to keep in mind, and too often when we have done trade deals and arrangements with countries a lot poorer than ourselves, very often the people lose out. i suppose i am referring in particular to many of the african cases, where very often we still behave like colonialists. i think we need to treat the indians in a fair manner. i think you mentioned human rights as well, i think it’s very important that we make sure that human rights standards are maintained at all stages. but you also mentioned the geopolitical nature of it: i think india is going to do a business with everybody, whether it’s the russians, the chinese, the americans or the europeans. we should be independent of all that and do our own business in a good way.
now, for the first time ever, because of covid, we're seeing the benefits of collaboration on healthcare in the eu. the laws and approaches adopted to combat covid have improved the efficiency and transparency of our citizens. the european health agency is a rapid response to the health challenges facing the eu, so that legislation is put in place to ensure that people are treated fairly. we should also align our diagnostic services with the strategy. for example, there are currently differing policies in european countries on the diagnosis of nubeheart. the use of an tsáthástáil is common in éirinn. however, there is a difference between the nine countries where doctoral examinations may be held in ireland and the other countries: six (6) in france and twenty-four (24) in spain. the common guidelines on diagnosis, treatment and healthcare provide resources to share information, and there are laws, regulations and codes of practice amongst our citizens. it is essential to have a basic and essential knowledge of the eu health system.
madam president, we’ve become accustomed to the eu’s regular condemnation of the state of israel for allowing jews to reside in the west bank. the european commission claims that this is based on international law. if that is so, why hasn’t the eu ever called any other people’s residential activities in occupied territories an international crime? we are aware that there are many territories that the eu deems ‘occupied’ around the world, even in europe. yet people move in and out of these territories all the time. however, the eu only talks about illegal settlers in relation to israeli jews. the truth is that the eu chooses to focus on one conflict over the other. it condemns certain actions of one particular state and turns a blind eye to other examples. we call on the commission to either use international law consistently or refrain from using legal language entirely.
madam president, throughout the european union we are witnessing chaos at airports with no end in sight: hundreds of flights delayed or cancelled, a lack of ground staff, air traffic control and aircrew. this is the result of thousands of redundancies during the pandemic, of the restructuring processes imposed by the european commission, of the path of privatisation and liberalisation of the aviation sector, dragging behind it precariousness, loss of rights, low wages. in portugal, the consequences of this process of liberalisation, imposed by successive governments, are obvious: the concession of national airports to the multinational vinci, subordinating operational needs to commercial ones, hindering the construction of the new lisbon airport in alcochete, to the detriment of the national interest; lack of operational staff in both public services and security forces; submission to eu impositions with a ruinous restructuring plan for tap. this is not the way. public control of this sector must be restored, its infrastructure and tap put at the service of the country.
madam president, we hear a lot in here about the battle between democracy and authoritarianism. to defend democracy and get finland and sweden into nato we’re prepared to do a filthy deal with turkey, selling out the kurds to a country known for persecuting them. to protect eu values, get oil and guns, we’re prepared to snuggle up to saudi arabia, known to dismember journalists, execute 81 people on the one day, not to mind murdering 400 000 in yemen and starving 2.3 million children. and to defeat russian authoritarianism, we’re prepared to sanction russia hurting ourselves, arm ukraine, helping to kill them in the process. and when the people of europe call out this lunacy and as in italy demand peace and a cessation of sending arms to the conflict, instead of listening to them as a democracy would do, italian state tv and four private channels are investigated for spreading russian disinformation. you couldn’t make it up. orbán’s doublespeak is alive and well. we have a ministry of truth, and your democracy is looking a hell of a lot like authoritarianism.
madam president, the nato summit in madrid was a big love-in for the supporters of the military-industrial complex. nato is not a defence alliance, it’s a war machine. ask the people of afghanistan, iraq or libya. nato’s real goal is the defence of a waning us hegemony and a unipolar world system. that’s what nato exists for. any discussion of that is silenced, chilled in this land of free speech. the war in ukraine: nato’s loving it. like the us, the russian economy is dominated by monopoly capital. both countries are run by oligarchs. now we have a us-nato proxy war against russia and ukraine, two factions of capitalist imperialism waging war against each other with millions of workers caught in between. a survey by the european council on foreign relations showed that a vast majority of european citizens want peace rather than promoting a war that punishes russia. but nato never wants peace. what i want to know is, what does the eu really want?
mr president, i thank commissioner šuica for his work. and i’d also like to pay tribute to sirpa pietikäinen and dennis radtke from my own group who worked so hard on this. it is about time that europe took action on care. we all know what a european perspective, action means. it means a greater focus on the harsh realities of care as it stands at present in the european union, the harsh realities of what we saw during covid-19. who amongst us can forget the appalling tragedies that we saw in relation to long-term care? who amongst us can forget the lack of carers, the lack of pay, the lack of proper training? surely it is time that we took a european perspective on care issues. every member state will gain from this. every member state must be involved, because this goes to the heart of our communities. it goes to the heart of the quality of our lives, of our parents’ lives, of our children’s lives. europe has much to offer. that care has long gone unnoticed and undervalued, and why? because it is mostly women who have done it. it is beyond time to take action and make a difference in this area. we need eu money to build better care facilities. we need proper care workers with proper pay. we need to create eight million jobs in this area and we need to boost gender equality. it’s finally time for a europe for carers and a europe that cares. thank you. the queen on picking a dolce vita to pee on drago’s bistro. not so much a slow. thank you, chair. commissioner schuchat. dear colleagues, the past couple of years show how the pandemic exacerbated the challenges faced by the care sector. and it is been a stark reminder of the importance of the care sector, the access to care and the efficiency of our social security systems. we have witnessed a lack of accessible and affordable quality long term care services and unacceptable stress put on the millions of care professionals, especially women, during a period of stress and crisis in an understaffed and underfunded sector. existing challenges led also to a substantial share of informal care and outdated services not suited for the purpose. we need the necessary investment to give our citizens with the workers who are beneficiaries of the sector, the tools to face the existing challenges and the increased demand of care services due to an ageing population.
rapporteur. – mr president, it is great to be standing here this morning and talking about the mental health of our communities. colleagues, last year unicef reported that suicide is the second leading cause of death among our young europeans. that same report outlined that, here in europe, 9 million of our adolescents aged 10 to 19 years are living with mental disorders – 9 million. a joint oecd and eu commission report, dated four years ago, found that one in six across our european union suffered negatively with their mental health. the report also noted that the total economic impact of our citizens’ mental ill health is over eur 6 billion. that is more than 4% of gdp across our 27 member states. and what are we doing? there is a silent belief that we, as eu policymakers, do not have a role or competency to deliver change for the mental health and well-being of our citizens, and this, colleagues, this silent belief, is utter fabrication. there can be no debate or policy discussion on health, on care, on the future of our european union, without the mental health of our citizens at its very core. to deliver better mental health services, we, as policymakers, across committees and countries, must wake up and learn to communicate with one another and work together. a cross-sectional approach to mental health is critical if we are to shift the dreadful imbalance our citizens face in accessing healthcare, education and employment opportunities. our citizens – especially our young people – cannot continue to live in an eu where people must hit rock bottom before they receive support for their mental health. early intervention is key. reintegration and tackling mental health among our young working population is also vital. both of these aspects are crucial if we are to develop and strengthen our labour market and social policies for our eu for generations to come. this report on mental health in the digital world of work examines benefits and the risks of digitalisation, drawing from the experiences of our employees and employers over the past two and a half years that they faced of the covid-19 pandemic. by supporting this report, you will join our call to update current eu legislation to respond to the new realities of the digital way of working, thus enabling companies and countries to really facilitate positive mental health practices for themselves and their workforce. i really look forward to today’s discussion, hearing from my shadow rapporteurs, my colleagues, and of course, commissioner schmit. i hope from this we don’t continue to talk only about mental health; we actually start putting these things into practice.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you, commissioner, and thank you, colleagues. there has never been a more fitting time to put mental health on the agenda. and i want to thank the many colleagues who highlighted young people, highlighted our ever-growing european community, particularly our ukrainian citizens who are finding their home and safety in the european union. we so desperately need to ensure that collective eu mental health policies are put in place. each of us are here today speaking about something like solidarity, and we’ve seen that it has worked. we’ve experienced the impact of working together in response to the covid-19 pandemic, which resulted in the sharing of best practices between member states, which resulted in sharing of medicines, and also an eu-wide financial support for all. we have the blueprint to get this right and it is essential now that we use this information collectively at eu level. by supporting this report, you will join our call to the commission to adopt an eu mental health strategy and deliver a european year dedicated to mental health next year in 2023. the eu year and mental health strategy will raise awareness of mental health policy. it will ensure debate in our institutions and across our member states. and perhaps most importantly, it will change the prevailing attitudes towards mental health and well-being across our european union. i appeal to each and every one of you to join my group, the epp, our online petition to further support our call to the commission to dedicate a european year to mental health next year. colleagues, our citizens are dying in silence. we heard from many today, and that statistic cannot be put aside any more. for once and for all, we must remove the stigma around mental health. we must be the voice for each and every citizen. and we must bring about real and meaningful change for this and future generations.
mr president, the conference on the future of europe ended two months ago, and while brussels and strasbourg are already adopting resolutions on the launch of a convention to revise the eu's founding treaties, citizens in the member states are concerned about something quite different. these are mainly the consequences of the pandemic as well as war, price increases, rising energy and food prices. we need to come up with quick and effective solutions here. i would stress that the views of the citizens of the 21 member states on the future of europe were not properly reflected in the conclusions, given the unclear organisational conditions. official translations into all the member states' languages, including slovak, are not yet available either. what kind of message are we sending to the public? i recently commissioned a survey in slovakia which clearly shows that citizens want us to provide the primary solutions for raising prices, developing the economy and creating jobs. three quarters of slovaks are afraid that they will not be able to cope with the price increase. the eu's problem is that it often acts where it does not have the competence and does not act sufficiently where it can bring much-needed solutions.
mr president, the overwhelming majority of the population in portugal, as in europe, is confronted with the brutal rise in prices. life is more expensive: already meagre wages and pensions cannot bear these increases. small and mediumsized enterprises cannot cope with the increase in production costs. the reasons for this increase in inflation, speculation and the scandalous exploitation of the present situation by economic groups, the perverse effects of sanctions, are outside this debate. while they advocate more money for militarization and war, they deny money for wage increases, pensions, investment in public services and the development of the country's productive sectors. what is lacking is more than palliative measures. to counteract the rise in the cost of living requires a general and real increase in wages, starting with the national minimum wage, combating precariousness, increasing rights. the need to regulate and set prices, support and boost domestic production, replace imports and ensure fair production prices, particularly in the agri-food sector.
mr president, commissioner, i thank the commission for its approach and i thank the vice-president of the czech republic for the presidency which he is now taking over, because it will be a very difficult time, when the social policy implications in particular will have to be dealt with primarily by the member states, but the european union's help is expected here, and you mentioned it. you mentioned important programmes that member states can use. these are programmes that have been in existence for a long time, such as the youth guarantee, but it is the recovery plans in particular that member states should use, since they can provide social assistance for families, employment and smes. i would strongly advocate that this aid be targeted and i would support the proposal that has been put forward by mrs miriam lexmann, namely to take all the necessary measures with regard to subsidiarity, because the member states are very well able to deal with this situation and we should deal at european union level with what we cannot do at member state level. in conclusion, let me wish the vice-president to have a good debate here, a good debate, which will help to address the social implications.
mr president, the russian rouble is at a seven year high. inflation reached a record high in the eurozone in june. the people of europe are struggling to survive due to the crushing cost of living, compounded by sanctions on russia that are not of any use to the people of europe. we are letting the warmongers ensure the destruction of ukraine and the collapse of living standards across europe, and driving millions into poverty in the global south. we are spending billions of euros making sure the war in ukraine continues. we’re spending billions of euros on the militarisation of the eu. since the invasion, nato countries have committed billions to military equipment in ukraine. war is a profitable business. the shares of bae systems, the largest weapons manufacturer in europe, have risen by 32% since the start of the war. the best way to deal with the cost of living crisis is to stop prolonging the war. the people of europe favour peace, even well above punishing russia. we can do something positive about bringing an end to the war. to date the eu has made no serious effort for dialogue and diplomacy. we have prioritised the military dimension from the start.
member of the commission. – i think it’s not mentioning and highlighting any member state, because i think what’s extremely important is ensuring a level playing field to our fishermen and that the rules should be applicable across the board. only then can we advance with the implementation and ensure that our fishermen and women, first of all, by doing their activities, will respect the rules. so a level playing field is, of course, crucial here.
i'm not going to tell you. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. this is the case for example with natura 2000. however, due to changing climatic conditions, some of these habitats have changed in recent years and even decades. however, only measures relating to the original natural state as defined at the time are supported, especially in the financial field. for example, trees and shrubs are planted with fertilisers that no longer fit the area because the area has just changed. some animals are forcibly relocated, having long since found a new habitat and no longer fit in this area. in the end, all those involved know - and they have told me - that the measures they are implementing with european funding are neither appropriate nor effective. why is there no adaptation? so why are we pumping financial support into areas that we could really support and develop through other measures? and why can't we adjust the guidelines in this case?
member of the commission. – thank you very much for your question. first of all, it’s our responsibility what is planted and what management plans are prepared, especially for natura 2000 areas. usually for natura 2000 areas that’s extraordinary cases, but we see this trend more dangerous outside natura 2000 areas. i think one of the major aims of our 3 billion trees initiative is not only to plant the 3 billion additional trees in europe, but it’s actually education – education that there must be a right tree at the right place planted, which would be resilient to future shocks, because we have a very diverse ecosystem across europe, north and south, different geographical locations, and we’ve seen the mistakes done in the past where species that were planted unfortunately today have proved one of the major impacts on forest fires as well in some regions. so of course we have to avoid such mistakes. we have to also educate people who really passionately takes the duty of planting more trees. but, as you said, we need to build the forest of the future. so through the 3 billion trees initiative that can be addressed. as regards the natura 2000 areas, these have to have solid management plan, and within those plans, of course, such questions also must be addressed.
the only question is: we know what trees we can plant in our areas. but we cannot plant them because they are not supported financially by the eu, precisely because they have to be restored to their former state of conservation. and that is the problem that needs to be changed. so, we want to. we know what. but we can't because there's no funding.
member of the commission. – mr president, so speaking about the funding, of course we have a life fund which could be helpful, which is our environment fund. even so, it’s a very little fund. secondly, i think what’s very important when we speak about natural areas, about the management and so on, that also should be a part of the member states’ recovery and resilience funding, which can be addressed through those funds. some member states actually took that into account and of course, i hope that is going to be implemented.
member of the commission. – thank you very much for your remarks. i can only say that, absolutely, our trade agreements overall, our policies when it comes to environmental protection or the fight against climate change, has to be horizontal and of course, has to intake our green deal policies. otherwise, it’s going to be extremely difficult to implement the green deal if we will see the green deal or the environmental policies such as nature restoration legislation or others as some nature beauty legislation, that’s not the case. so, absolutely that also has to be addressed in the economic activities. and trade agreements can be an excellent tool which can successfully export our green deal to other regions. that would, of course, ensure also a level playing field. so i think there is still a lot to be done in the future as regards to looking at the trade agreements and introducing the green deal component into our trade deal agreements.
member of the commission. – i can only say that we always listen to the majority of citizens and i’m extremely happy to see huge involvement into our policies from citizens. every policy or proposal that had a large amount of citizens’ signatures behind it usually went through this house also extremely successfully. so we always call for citizens’ involvement and very carefully listen to their voice. the european green deal was actually a result, and one of the first proposals – actually the first – of this commission very carefully listening to what our citizens want. so i am sure we will continue to do so, matching the differences that we have between our regions, between the member states and between the members of this parliament.
member of the commission. – thank you for your very concrete question. don’t get me wrong, the momentum is actually just arrived, i would say, and that will pick up with the clear date and place of cop15 happening due to postponement of the event. i think that’s why the momentum wasn't there. now it’s there for sure. what can we do? i think, first of all, of course, president von der leyen made a huge step when she announced the doubling of our resources for biodiversity outside the eu. doubling it from three and a half billion to 7 billion. we, of course, need to get everyone else on board as well, especially here i am speaking about the g20 countries. they also have to increase and chip in to have as large as possible amount. secondly, there are different ideas floating. i fully agree with you that demands from global south are based on their needs. but we also have to see what is the reality to get this money actually on the table. not to create fake expectations and not to over promise what actually have been done before and then that failed to reach the goal. so my first aim is to raise as many funds as possible. use the resources that are not only international development funds, but also private funds, philanthropies etc., which also can play a crucial role. and then try to use that amount as efficiently as possible. finding the possible agreement with the global south. their demands also have to be realistic. creating additional funds, raising 800 billion per year, that’s going to be extremely difficult in this very short time. we can look at the timeline. we should see what is going to be realistic. but also we cannot only focus on funds because with funds obligations and implementation must also come. and it has to be very clear. and so far, i don’t really see it happening as well. well, all the goals are still in brackets.
member of the commission. – so the measurable targets are probably the crucial part. first of all, of course, the overarching target ‘30 by 30’ is the fundamental one. secondly is, of course, we want to have a measurable target on nature restoration, also the same as we just proposed within the eu of 20%, most likely 10% for the oceans, 10% for terrestrial areas. and then, of course, looking at direct and indirect drivers of ecosystem loss, addressing them within the targets and then not only having those measurable targets, but also very clear milestones, how we reach those targets, having a very clear review mechanism, returning back every two years to the target and see are we able to reach that first, second or third step towards the ‘30 for 30’ target, how the implementation is done and what measures are deployed in one or the other ecosystem. as i said, a lot can be done not only within the cop 15. we have already some very strong proposals on the table as regards the marine resources, as regards our oceans, so if we are able to agree on rules beyond national jurisdiction and protect the high seas, which was mapped by scientists as the rules that requires and could be protected. secondly, of course, we have our proposal as regards the ocean around antarctica that would protect 1% of the world’s ocean. so there are already even clear proposals on the table which we could be advancing with. and i think that would be the best way to go forward: measurable and concrete. and for that, of course, we could do our utmost to raise the fund. there is another idea, you know, returning to funding coming from colombia as regards the working project where we would have additional fund and then certain projects implemented from that fund, that is also measurable and implemented on the ground, which could be considered.
member of the commission. – first of all, thank you for your leadership as regards the oceans and their protection. of course, it was great to meet such a large group of european parliamentarians in lisbon, which clearly showed that international ocean governance is a key question for the european union. now, as regards the progress made in lisbon, i have had numerous meetings with my counterparts discussing the possibilities and the outcome of the bbnj agreement and the meeting in new york. but, as always in negotiations, everything will be done at the very last moment and to say we have made progress or not, is very hard. i hope that we are very close. but even our closest allies have to make a step towards a middle ground in order for us to advance. i think that would be an historic step, which we have to deploy all the possibilities, all the efforts, all the pressures in order to get it done. so my team is currently focusing mainly on the august meeting. we are reaching out to stakeholders. we welcomed additional countries in our high ambition coalition. hopefully all these efforts are going to help. but, as i said, you know, it’s extremely hard to predict the outcome of the negotiations. i was going to the wto negotiations with a good mood, and thought that we had a deal in sight. then it took two additional days and nights to get at least a partial deal. so i won’t estimate what i think we should deploy all the possible efforts and then of course ensure that it’s really, really happening. i think that can have a fundamental role than going to montreal and cop.
member of the commission. – so as regards the blue carbon coalition, you know, eu usually supports the ambitious coalitions, coalitions which lead to example. i’m a bit afraid that after the cop in glasgow there is more and more coalitions created. but as long as that leads to result and we not devalue the meanings of coalition and we really manage to get the countries, like—minded countries together to make a push, that’s fine. now, as regards the announcement by the french president, i was of course extremely happy to hear it. and, of course, that depends on member states if they will be able to join. but my call remains the same. we also put a very clear language into our nature restoration legislation that such activities can be only done when we have a clear scientific evidence, which means that at the moment they cannot be happening and deployed and, of course, i’m happy by president macron’s clear leadership here and a clear call for other member states as well to join.
member of the commission. – i mean, of course, i think our green deal policy through these two and a half years from the very beginning when it was adopted, then of course, we had we heard tries to shut down the green deal during covid. we hear similar calls as regards russia’s war in ukraine. but we kept on implementing the green deal. and the green deal proved to be the right direction. and i think this is a very clear signal to the market. i do not really think that the market needs additional calls to really see the way forward and where to deploy their capabilities, what decisions will be needed for us, for example, to transit, to fully decarbonise our economy. but then when you look at the opportunities and the funding opportunities, they are all there. first of all, our horizon europe programme, which very well funds the transition and so on, member states deploying their research action to the green policies. so i think there are very clear opportunities for the market, for the private sector and i don't really think that it's going to be left behind. left behind can be only those who didn’t believe, didn't invest and then find themselves in a few years in a disadvantage position. but at the end of the day, i think all that demand is very much going to be created by the market. and when we speak about agricultural policy, transport, energy policies, we clearly see where the trend is going and where the biggest investments are being put. so there is no chance of implementing the green deal without solutions that are coming and going to come from the private sector. and most importantly, i truly count that our companies, those who, let’s say, are early on this transition path, they will be able to reap the advantages and we will be the ones leading in this technological change, which will require an enormous amount of technology as regards the transition. but just to finalise - i’m very sorry i’ve gone over the time - but you know, i remember very well when we proposed our decarbonisation goals. there were just a few countries on board and now we have quite a club which formed. and that’s also a very clear signal to companies that the market for clean technologies is there.
member of the commission. – thank you very much. i think that call was well addressed in repowereu as regards the clear need for deployment of renewable technologies and fast—track procedures. the proposal by the commission is on the table and now i think it will be, of course, in the hands of the co-legislators. i hope for a swift adoption which will allow us, of course, a swift transition and faster permitting procedures for private investments.
good to see you here today, commissioner. look, it’s clear that environmentally harmful subsidies given by the eu are causing significant harm to biodiversity. so can you tell us, is the eu in the high ambition camp regarding commitments to phase out or reform environmentally harmful subsidies? and related to this, is the commission on track to produce a methodology to identify environmentally harmful subsidies by 2023, as we committed to in the eighth environmental action programme (8th eap). and then in terms of consumption: food production, consumption and overconsumption are having an impact on biodiversity. so what is the eu pushing for in relation to consumption footprint targets and when will the commission introduce the eu 2030 reduction targets for consumption footprint, another commitment that was in the 8th eap? and lastly, in terms of political will: commissioner, you’re going to the cop15 later in the year but i genuinely feel that we need to call for a legally binding agreement at that conference because we’ve seen that we failed in the past in terms of biodiversity and monitoring isn’t enough. it has to be legally binding otherwise, as you know and i know, it won’t happen.
member of the commission. – thank you for your question. and again, thank you for your work on the etap, which i think we have achieved a great result. so first of all on the first part on harmful subsidy, so the work is already ongoing and as it’s framed in the etap, we will propose it in 2023. we started, of course, with the stakeholder consultations and so we will move on, work with the member states and then finalise the proposal in 2023. as regards the footprint and reduction of waste, so of course one thing is our waste legislation. secondly, our ecodesign sustainable product policy, which is really transformative legislation. and last but not least, of course, our proposal on food waste. these all will have a major impact on reduction of the footprint. i think what’s very clear, of course, we have to implement the circular economy action plan. the circular economy action plan will help us to significantly reduce the footprint of our consumption, allowing, first of all, to take responsibility for the consumption patterns that we have here in the eu. but secondly, we also have to look at other legislation which can also significantly contribute. and of course, i count on parliament’s support on the proposals that already are put on the table. as regards the binding targets in cop 15, so first of all we have to agree on what those targets are. and then depending, i guess, on the outcome of negotiations, depending on the possibilities of funding, we can see what is there to be achieved. at the moment it doesn’t look like the binding targets would be accepted and approved, but we of course must work to ensure and find a way, let’s say, to ensure that what is going to be agreed is implemented. so that’s why the review clauses, the implementation review mechanism and monitoring mechanism can be those tools, and there are many reasons for that. it is not only – i am very sorry i am over the time – there are many reasons for that because for some countries to accept the binding targets is extremely difficult due to national rules, etc., so we also have to bear that in mind. therefore, i think we have to put very clear and very strong implementation mechanisms.
i know you are a man of ambition and i really do believe you should push for those binding targets. we have them in the climate law and, as i said, if we do not have them binding, they won’t happen. lastly, on the environmentally harmful subsidies: maybe you could think of a hierarchy, once you identify the environmentally harmful subsidies, a hierarchy of the ones that would give us the greatest effect over the shortest period of time.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the first axiom: as you said, gas and nuclear are not green. that's what everyone agrees on. except that we strongly urge you to vote for this objection rejecting the inclusion of gas and nuclear in the green taxonomy. first, just for our credibility. we have had scientists working on it, and we have developed objective principles for whether or not to use certain types of energy. well, we're not counting on it. it's not being taken into account because it's a political decision. there were scientific arguments about nuclear power: we lived through fukushima, we lived through chernobyl, we know that we have no solution for radioactive waste. how can we transmit energy for which we have no solution for nuclear waste? and then, it's still a burden to future generations, so it can't be a transitional energy. it will be far too late: it takes 15 years to build a reactor. the same is true of gas: it is a fossil fuel, as you said. and if we want to achieve the paris agreement, we have to eliminate all fossil gas production by 2022. so, that's it. this goes against everything that has been said, so i ask you to vote for the taxonomy to include neither gas nor nuclear.
mr. president, this is the house. europe is in an energy crisis, rising prices, uncertain supply. and this proposal would only make things worse, so we have to say no. we have to say no, because nuclear energy and natural gas are sustainable energy sources and are essential for climate protection. this proposal would make it impossible to achieve climate objectives by hindering investments. we must say no, because europe must strive for energy independence, which will simply not be possible without new nuclear power stations and lng terminals. this proposal would, on the contrary, increase the vulnerability of europe's energy supply. finally, we must say no, because only by using nuclear energy is it possible to maintain affordable prices. this proposal would further increase energy prices. house of honor! we must protect european citizens from the energy crisis, and that is why we must say no to this proposal!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there are many reasons to vote against this delegated act. because of the time constraints, i'm going to limit myself to two. firstly, the delegated act cannot take account of the new situation following the russian war of aggression in ukraine, because it was written before that. you can twist and turn it however you want. things that are not supported by the taxonomy get more expensive. that is why everyone wants to be taxonomy-compliant, and those who are not on the list complain. lng terminals and lng vessels are not included, and that is one reason for rejecting this delegated act. the second reason for me is the rules you have written for nuclear energy. i can accept that nuclear energy is a transitional technology and that we may have to use it for a little longer, at this stage. but, mairead mcguinness, 2045 building permits for new conventional nuclear power plants: these nuclear power plants will not produce electricity before 2070, let alone be amortized by then. if we do not succeed in making renewable energy the sole source of energy by 2070, then we are not worth our money, and that is why i will vote against the delegated act.
mr president, a full debate on a delegated act does not happen every day, but this issue goes to the heart of who we are. are we still serious about defending our planet? serious about advocating energy independence in a geopolitical world? serious about building a sustainable europe for all citizens? by labelling gas and nuclear as green we answer these questions with a clear and resounding ‘no’. voting for gas turns europe from a climate front runner into a climate laggard, as even russia and china don’t call it green, and for good reason: there’s no place for fossil gas if you want to stop global warming. but europe’s reasons to turn away from gas are stronger still, because our addiction means dependence, dependence on dictatorial dealers like putin or a saudi prince. and is this the message that we, defenders of our planet and advocates for independence, want to give? and one can sort of understand those who favour nuclear. yes, it will be a future source of energy, but no, your country will not benefit from labelling it green. it doesn’t work for all europeans, only for a few. because macron’s backroom deal is a deal written for france. so is it a surprise that it’s just about only france that can fulfil the requirement, the requirement of a permanent storage for nuclear waste by 2050? the bottom line is this act takes green funding away from the countries that need it most and puts it in the pockets of macron. so, dear colleagues, do not support this deal that favours just a few, and be true to this institution that looks for european solutions to our problems for all european citizens.
i have a request to make to you, ladies and gentlemen: i have now received three blue cards, one of which was requested by mistake and two of which were requested when i was about to give the floor to the next speaker. i'd like to see a clear line. normally, speakers get the blue card if they haven't just spoken. but i would ask you to show me the blue card in time during the speech or at the beginning of the speech so that i can call you in time before the speaker leaves the podium. otherwise, it is a problem, because i do not want to call back the new speaker when i am about to receive a blue card to a previous speaker who has already taken his place. i ask you to come a little earlier - i know it's not easy - and to be more consistent with this instrument. i was just saying that to explain why i could not call up two blue cards because i was already about to give the floor to the next speaker. i ask for your understanding. we'll get together, but i need to be able to chair a little bit.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the green minister of economics and energy, robert habeck, placed on saturday a press release on the taxonomy, and he was deliberately quiet on gas. and i do not use that triumphantly. it’s simply ‘welcome to reality’. we know that for a transitional time we need gas and nuclear in order not to destabilise the grid, to lead the pathway to renewable energy in 2030 and 2050. and the taxonomy simply reflects the fact that this is used as a transitional pathway, a sustainable energy source. it is therefore right that the complementary delegated act and the taxonomy presented by the commission defines electricity and heat generation with gas as energy sources as a sustainable transition technology. it’s based on extremely strict cumulative criteria, which must be also verified by an independent third party. and in reality it will address a very few investments to stabilise the grid, reserve plants. but this is not a renewal of gas. any prospection of gas is not the future, we all know. but we know that we need these transition pathways, and we all know that we need investment in transition pathways. and for that reason, i think it was a wise decision to stay with the delegated act.
mr president, commissioner, i think that, first of all, we should be able to focus the debate properly, and this is not a debate about whether or not we need to invest in gas or nuclear energy. in politics it is important, very important, to differentiate between instruments and objectives, and i think we are confusing the two, because the taxonomy, the taxonomy regulation, was created to create a european framework, but also, with an international vocation, to define what is and what is not green. and certainly, to introduce gas and nuclear energy into that framework, by the way, contrary to the criteria of the technicians of the platform on sustainable finance, is, as i say, to introduce a stone that reduces the credibility of our regulation, that reduces the ability of our regulation to be an international standard. and, as i say, this does not prejudge whether or not we should invest in gas or nuclear energy, but rather clarify and name things for what they really are. and so i think it is necessary to reject this delegated act.
mr president, madam commissioner today we face the double challenge of the need to cut co2 emissions and a war in europe. we must face both at the same time. those who say we can meet these challenges without nuclear are wrong. at a time of energy crisis, we have even greater obligation to ensure that all citizens have a secure supply of energy in their homes. and that is what this vote is all about. nuclear is vital to our energy independence and economy. this is crucial for countries like the czech republic. for sweden and austria the answer might be hydro, but for the czech republic it is nuclear. you don’t need to follow this path, but we must respect the choice. now is the time to put ideology, politics aside and to act responsibly. therefore, i call on all colleagues to vote against this objection.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept the diversion of green investments to non-sustainable energy sources which also benefit putin's war. every euro spent on the costly construction or endless maintenance of a nuclear reactor will not be invested in renewable energy. austria and luxembourg have already announced that they will take legal action against this delegated act if it is adopted. these governments denounce an inconsistency with several european texts in the regulation of taxonomy itself and a clear overstepping of the commission's powers. the legal arguments are strong and could well succeed. the energy transition is urgent. why then prolong this debate for years before the court of justice if we can overturn this delegated act tomorrow? ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the vote will be close, and every vote counts. the credibility of our institutions is also at stake. then support this objection. (speaker agrees to reply to a blue card)
the answer is 'blue card'. thank you for asking. firstly, this instrument, this taxonomy does not prohibit nuclear power. secondly, we all agree that nuclear energy is not green and increases our dependence on uranium imports. i don't think there's any uranium in france, so that means massive imports. it is well known that the construction of nuclear reactors takes many years, so it will not meet the climate objectives at all. by the time they are operational, the deadlines for achieving climate targets will be over anyway. and thirdly, you know very well that nuclear waste, for which there is still no solution, has to be cooled for 80 years. so it's not sustainable or green either. how do you cool the waste if not with cold water, which further damages biodiversity?
president of the commission the geopolitical context is one that has presented us with three major challenges: first and foremost, to control electricity and energy prices; ensure a stable energy supply; to ensure a sustainable energy transition. nuclear energy can play a decisive role in each of these three challenges. in the energy transition, some have radically abandoned nuclear energy, with the result that we now even have to resort to coal. the eu was then created as the coal and steel community. are we really going back to that time or are we going to show the courage to invest in all the modern, innovative technologies that nuclear energy is one of? if we want energy that is affordable, that provides security with as few emissions as possible, then nuclear energy undeniably deserves a place in that.
mr president, calling something sustainable doesn't make it sustainable. calling fossil gas and nuclear energy green. it's like me saying black is white. this taxonomy that you have proposed is a work of art and deception. and it suits some to accept it. we're not voting on whether nuclear and gas should be part of the energy transition. we're voting on whether we want to greenwash them, categorise them as green at the same level as renewables. no one in their right mind could agree with that. expert analysis concludes that most member states will not get any financial benefit from it, but france will. so we are just greenwashing. just to please french nuclear interests. can somebody explain to me? this resolution is calling for the commission to respect science. commissioner, you said your position is pragmatic for the uncertain times we're living in. but commissioner, the war in ukraine is not the biggest crisis facing this planet. climate change is. cop on to yourself.
mr. chairman, please! the commission sets the highest environmental standards for new nuclear and gas investments. such gas investments will have to switch to hydrogen or green gas by 2035, and member states will have to set a date for decarbonisation. these are good proposals, in line with our european order. it is also difficult to judge the commission and the european parliament as being in favour of russia. we are the ones who have supported ukraine since the beginning of the war and opposed the barbaric russian war. it was parliament - i was one of the authors of that amendment - that voted for a total ban on energy imports from russia. and in june, for the first time in the history of the union, imports of lng from the us exceeded imports of gas from russia. this is the result of our congressional negotiations with congress and the obama administration in 2015. and finally, an important note for us. the ukrainian government is officially asking us, the mps, to support the taxonomy tomorrow. it's our duty.
mr president, commissioner, the taxonomy is the gold standard for sustainable investments. this is upheld by the existing very strict criteria for energy production. by adding nuclear at the same level as solar and wind, and having stricter criteria for biogas than for fossil gas, it’s incomprehensible. this cannot be in line with the original law and its ‘do no significant harm’ principle. not even the commission’s own experts are supporting it. they even believe that this inclusion risks the entire credibility of the taxonomy on the financial markets. with a broader and weaker taxonomy, there will be less investment in solar and wind. the exact solution is to quickly become independent from russia. listen to ukraine’s ambassador to germany and reject this greenwashing of the taxonomy. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013). while this may not be the last time you and i debate, jytte, it may be the last time in a very, very long time. so i want to take this opportunity to thank you, jytte, for your incredibly strong climate commitment, which will be missed in this house when you go back to sweden. i just want to say thank you for your action and your strong climate drive! take it home and continue to fight for a taxonomy without gas at home in the swedish parliament.
blue-card answer. – sorry i did not completely understand the first part of the sharing, so sorry, i did not have my headset. thank you very much, emma. i completely agree with you. we need to set a very high standard on all climate legislation, and that’s exactly why we need to cooperate on this. and i really think the vote tomorrow is extremely important to make sure that we do not only have strict legislation that we work together on with the eu ets, but that we also make sure that the financial markets support the sustainable solutions. and this is what we are doing tomorrow. so please colleagues, listen to emma and to us who really believe that this is important.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the we now have a choice that could be fatal to our climate goals: we have one last chance to stop the commission's hopeless decision to include natural gas a fossil fuel in our taxonomy of green investment. a decision that is pure and simple greenwashing of natural gas. frankly, this is an opportunity we cannot afford to waste! otherwise, we risk becoming tied to fossil fuels long after we should have phased them out. now, remember, the taxonomy does not determine what to invest in or what energy countries should use. it should instead set a gold standard for what is a green investment and show private capital what to invest in if it wants to help us achieve our climate goals. it has to be done right, because we need massive investment if we as a society are to succeed in the green transition. and if we are to actually achieve our much-needed climate goals. it's all too important for black investments to be called green. so i hope you will vote yes to our protest tomorrow.
mr president, just let me be clear, commissioner, as far as i’m concerned, you have labelled fossil gas as a green investment, and this is the truth. so it now falls on us in this chamber to stop this moral and economic madness. these past few weeks, delegation after delegation of ukrainian representatives have come to this house with one request: do not support more investments in gas. it only benefits russian oligarchs. our children and young adults are taking to the streets with one request: do not invest in more fossil fuels. it only benefits the wealthy. and yet tomorrow, many meps in this house will vote to define fossil gas as a green investment. tomorrow, this house has the power to end this full—on, blatant greenwashing. so i have another request in particular to some of my irish meps: don’t pander to the lobbyists, to the warmongers, to the oligarchs. vote for real climate change by rejecting this proposal.
mr president, commissioner, in order to get rid of fossil fuels, europe must invest in all low-emission sources of energy, including nuclear power. already today, half of europe's clean electricity comes from nuclear power, and we know that the demand for electricity will only increase in the future. the commission's view that renewable energy investments, as well as renewals under certain conditions, are sustainable investments should therefore be supported. that is the right line, but i also understand very well the concerns of those colleagues who are concerned about the final disposal of nuclear waste in countries where it has not been resolved, and it is also worth resolving. in my own country, finland, the first nuclear waste disposal facility in the world has been set up. it was decided 30 years ago. nuclear waste will be buried in the bedrock, and that area will be put into use in a few years. the commissioner has been there on a visit. these are the solutions that are needed.
mr president, what we have here is another example of eu doublespeak. we say we want to move away from fossil fuels, but to do that we’re going to allow essentially free money to invest in fossil fuels by allowing gas into taxonomy and therefore ensuring their continued use at the expense of other green alternatives. it’s absolute nonsense, and it’s nonsense put forward by the same people who are responsible for our over—reliance on gas in the first place, by our failure to invest in renewables and our failure to pursue a strategy of degrowth. but when we see the lobbying that has gone on around this vote, we really get to understand the vested interests that are at stake here. but invoking ukraine, i have to say, is the last straw for me. we talk an awful lot in here about foreign interference, but the lecture from the ukrainian government which we received at lunchtime, telling us to support this greenwashing in order to show support for ukraine, i think is a new low. calling for the promotion of ukrainian gas is no less economically damaging than that of russian gas. the planet won’t distinguish. we have to support the objection.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the commission welcomes the swift adoption by the european parliament and the council of the amendment to the european maritime and fisheries fund, making specific support measures available to fisheries and aquaculture operators to alleviate the consequences of the military aggression of russia against ukraine and to mitigate the effects. however, the commission urges caution in the use of the measures providing compensation for the temporary cessation of fishing activities, as widespread use of temporary cessation could have the unintended consequence of exacerbating the disruption of the fisheries supply chain because of the drop in supply on the market. we have therefore forwarded a written statement to this effect for the inclusion in your minutes. written statement by the commission the commission welcomes the swift adoption by the european parliament and the council of the amendment to regulation (eu) no 508/2014 on the european maritime and fisheries fund, thus making the specific support measures available to operators to alleviate the consequences of the military aggression of russia against ukraine on fishing activities and to mitigate the effects caused by that military aggression on the market of fishery and aquaculture products, including the additional costs of raw material, input and energy. however, the commission urges caution in the use of the measures providing compensation for the temporary cessation of fishing activities in cases where the russian aggression ‘impedes the economic viability of fishing operations’. indeed, temporary cessation is subject to the condition that all fishing activities carried out by the fishing vessel benefitting are ‘effectively suspended’, which means that the fishing vessel concerned has to stop any fishing activities during the period concerned by the temporary cessation. the commission encourages member states to prioritise the measures that aim to compensate additional costs and income forgone incurred due to the market disruption caused by the military aggression of russia against ukraine and its effects on the supply chain of fishery and aquaculture products, which are better suited to keeping the supply chain of fishery and aquaculture products functioning. widespread use of temporary cessation could have the unintended consequence of exacerbating the disruption of the fishery supply chain because of a drop of supply on the market.
that concludes the vote.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the unilateral introduction of the northern ireland protocol act by the united kingdom government and respect for international law (2022/2744 (rsp)). this debate will take place under the same conditions as the previous debates - seats, speech, blue card.
president-in-office of the council. – dear mr president, honourable members, it has not even been two years since the united kingdom and the european union entered into the trade and cooperation agreement with the consent and support of the european parliament. the withdrawal agreement and its protocol on ireland and northern ireland, which is just over two and a half years old itself, is already at risk of being torn apart by the uk. the united kingdom government has proposed a law to unilaterally suspend the application of the protocol’s key provisions, and the bill is already advancing in the uk parliament. the council is highly concerned about the situation. we remain fully united and mobilised to protect the citizens who benefit from the withdrawal agreement, to protect the good friday agreement and to protect our single market. the european parliament’s active engagement was of prime importance to bring the previous negotiations to a swift conclusion. i trust that we will once again show our united front in the face of this unconstructive attitude by the united kingdom. as always on brexit, unity among member states, but also among institutions, is our most precious asset. we need to send a clear signal to the uk government. let there be no doubt that the eu seeks to have a strategic, enduring and mutually beneficial partnership with the united kingdom. in the current geopolitical situation, the eu and the uk stand side-by-side in our response to russia’s brutal and unjustified war against ukraine. we are both peaceful democracies that insist on respecting international agreements. it is therefore unacceptable to take steps which violate international commitments. in the current circumstances, we must all hold ourselves to the highest standards, including respecting international agreements. the protocol on ireland and northern ireland was the solution agreed with the current uk prime minister’s government to protect the good friday agreement in all its dimensions, and to avoid a hard border on the island of ireland while protecting the integrity of the eu single market. the eu stands fully united in rejecting a renegotiation of the protocol as it is the agreed solution to the challenge posed to the island of ireland by the type of brexit chosen by the uk. in years of intense negotiations between the two sides, no better solution was found. the uk government must return to working jointly to solve the practical issues already identified within the context of the protocol. this is also what stakeholders in northern ireland expect. recent trade figures show that the protocol is working. the gdp in northern ireland is growing faster than in the rest of the uk. the eu and the uk share a common responsibility to demonstrate that, instead of starting artificial confrontations, they can find durable solutions by working together pragmatically and in full respect of international commitments. our evolving partnership must be based on respecting existing international agreements and by foreseeable actions taken within the joint bodies, further building up mutual trust. that is what our citizens expect from democratic leaders and institutions.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, first and foremost, i am grateful for the opportunity to address you today and provide an update on the latest development regarding the protocol – ireland and northern ireland. let me start by reaffirming that the european union wishes to have a positive and stable relationship with the united kingdom. we are partners facing the same global challenges where upholding the rule of law is imperative. and i think it was very well described by minister bek just a minute ago. our relationship must be, therefore, based on the agreements that both parties negotiated, agreed and ratified: the withdrawal agreement and the trade and cooperation agreement. the protocol on ireland and northern ireland is an integral part of the withdrawal agreement. the protocol protects the good friday belfast agreement in all its dimensions, avoids the hard border on the island of ireland, while protecting the integrity of the island of ireland and the integrity of the internal market, and respects the constitutional position of northern ireland within the united kingdom. let us not forget that the protocol was the only joint solution found to protect the hard-earned gains of the peace process in northern ireland, while addressing the challenges created by brexit and the type of brexit chosen by the uk government. so we need to be realistic. no alternative solution has been found and it is not needed. from the very beginning, we have shown a lot of understanding for the practical difficulties in the implementation of the protocol and we demonstrated that solutions can be found within its framework. this is what we did, for example, with our medicines package. it was adopted in record time. and i would like to take this opportunity to thank you once again for your crucial role in it. we also proposed solutions in the customs and sanitary and phytosanitary areas in order to further facilitate trade between great britain and northern ireland. we always insisted that we want to work towards joint solutions that are durable. very importantly, we also made it clear that, whilst we stand ready to discuss facilitations, we will need firm guarantees as regards the protection of our internal market. throughout this time, we worked towards the joint outcome because only joint solutions would bring the legal certainty and predictability for the people and businesses in northern ireland. we made it clear that any unilateral action would only have the opposite effect, and it would erode trust between partners, which is the very basis for our work. despite all these efforts, the uk government tabled the so-called northern ireland protocol bill on 30 june. if adopted, this bill would disapply most provisions of the protocol, and this is unacceptable. there is no legal or political justification whatsoever for the uk to unilaterally change an international agreement. first of all, there are other ways to solve the problems regarding the implementation of the protocol together, and we proved that with our package of solutions we know how to do that. secondly, our interests and the other parties to the agreement are seriously harmed because this is about the conditions for northern ireland’s access to the eu’s internal market for goods. and it is simply legally and politically inconceivable that the uk government decides these conditions unilaterally. let us not forget that the current trading arrangements between great britain and northern ireland are not in line with the protocol because of the unilateral grace periods put in place by the uk government. the european commission reacted in a proportionate and gradual manner. first of all, you will remember that we had paused legal action over the past year in order to create a constructive atmosphere to identify joint solutions. this bill goes against this spirit, and for that reason we have relaunched our legal action against the uk for not complying with key parts of the protocol. in parallel and further to extensive engagement with businesses in northern ireland, we have published in greater detail our model for the flexible implementation of the protocol, based on durable solutions within the protocol. in a nutshell, our solutions were to create an express lane for goods moving from great britain to northern ireland. they would reduce sanitary and phytosanitary checks and controls by more than 80%. they would cut customs paperwork in half. they would offer simplified certification, a single three-page document for the whole lorryful of different goods filled only once a month. and they would allow even the movement of certain goods that would otherwise be restricted, such as chilled meat. this demonstrates that a solution exists. and as you just heard a few minutes ago from the czech presidency, the european union is united in this view. and i really would like to thank the french and czech presidencies for expressing the position and unanimous support of the member states so clearly. and i want to express my gratitude to the european parliament for its support to this approach as well. i would like to close, honourable members, by underlining that our door remains open to the uk for dialogue in order to identify joint solutions forward within the framework of the protocol, based on the solutions i have just mentioned. it is now for the uk to walk through that door, and i sincerely believe that with political will and genuine commitment, solutions are still within reach.
on behalf of the ppe group. – a uachtaráin, commissioner, colleagues, the northern ireland protocol bill marks a new low in relations between the eu and the uk. we mustn’t forget that the uk was a valued member of the european union for 40 years and played a very constructive part. but breaching international law is just not acceptable, as vice-president šefčovič said. also, it defies logic – because the protocol is working. the majority of mlas returned in the recent election are in favour of the protocol. the business people that i met in my capacity as rapporteur for the trade committee, the vast majority are in favour of the protocol and see the benefits of being in the single market of the european union and the uk market. yesterday, i had the privilege of meeting a good friend of mine, former mep now under—secretary vicky ford, and we had a robust discussion. i pointed out to her that if green and red lanes are a solution, come and negotiate, and we can see – because nobody has been more flexible than our good friend vice-president šefčovič. i appeal to boris johnson, the british government, to give over this fawlty towers—like approach to politics, because if they don’t, there is a danger that basil would be confused with boris. regardless of the outcome in the volatile situation in number 10, there is only one solution – put this bill aside, come and negotiate and we can reach an agreement. that is what democrats always do.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, what the uk government is doing right now looks, unfortunately, more like a group of reckless, privileged people trying to distract from their own mistakes by breaking international law, rather than serious governing. what we actually urgently need is calm and constructive discussions on the implementation of the northern ireland protocol; to find practical solutions for the people on the ground, and not to play political games or to blackmail the other side. to the people in the uk, i would like to say, rest assured that, despite all the difficulty and tension, this parliament and the citizens in the european union can still make a very clear difference between the uk government and the people in the uk. we know that a majority of members of the northern ireland assembly actually stand behind the protocol and want to find solutions. and we know that there are millions of people in the uk who want to have a close and strong relationship with the european union, and we will continue to put all our efforts into making that possible.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, a chairde, this debate is long overdue and one sought by the left group. the british government are not only attacking the protocol; they are attacking the good friday agreement. they must not succeed. the north of ireland has changed. people will not accept supremacy by regressive unionism from the dup or their paramilitary allies. the protocol protects the north from the worst damage caused by brexit. what the british government cannot swallow is that the economy in the north is doing better than anywhere in britain, but the illegal protocol bill is designed to drag the north down – the dual regulatory system would create an impossible bureaucracy for business. be clear: as he clings to his job, boris johnson will do anything. he systematically breaks international law. he undermines the good friday agreement. he absolves the british military for crimes committed, denying grieving families the justice they deserve. he repeals the european convention on human rights, the beating heart of the good friday agreement. britain is fast becoming a rogue state, acting unilaterally in the interests of its own elite, with no regard for the well—being of its people or the international rules—based order. unless britain turns to legality, it deserves to fail, which is why scottish people want to take control of their own future, and why a referendum on irish unity, as provided for in the good friday agreement, is increasingly on the agenda.
mr president, the northern ireland protocol bill tabled by the united kingdom government is a regrettable unilateral move. as it dis—applies core elements of the protocol in ireland and northern ireland, it creates more difficulties in northern ireland and undermines mutual trust. unilateral actions deliberately contradicting an international agreement are not the way forward. the withdrawal agreement, including the protocol, was and is the necessary foundation for the eu—uk trade and cooperation agreement. the european union’s reaction to the northern ireland protocol bill has been proportionate, firm and calm – and rightly so, vice—president šefčovič. we want to have stable and positive relations with the united kingdom based on our agreements, mutually negotiated, signed and ratified by the united kingdom and the european union. we remain partners with shared values. therefore, i call on the uk government to re—enter talks to facilitate the practical implementation of the protocol. the protocol is not the problem – it is part of the solution to a problem. the original problem is, and remains, brexit.
mr president, commission vice-president, i thought the uk prime minister ‘got brexit done’, but today we are not even sure how long he will be in office, while the uk government is threatening to unilaterally rip up the northern ireland protocol. mr president, to the people in britain i want to say, we here in europe are committed to our friendship with you. this is not about rehashing debates of the past, this is about making brexit work for all uk citizens. is the prime minister of britain really willing to break up international law, jeopardise the good friday agreement and axe trust between the uk and its most important trading partner? i urge the uk government to step back from the abyss. flexible solutions for the people in northern ireland exist within the protocol, and commission vice-president šefčovič has those solutions. all it takes for the uk government is to act in good faith.
mr president, vice-president šefčovič, in the uk, the stigma against breaking international law, domestic law and constitutional norms has been significantly eroded since boris johnson became prime minister. the events of the last 24 hours demonstrate that for many, enough is enough. freedom house reported last year that it has been sixteen consecutive years of decline in global freedom. this matters because the pattern of decline has been gradual in most countries, and that’s why it is so important to call out the erosion of democratic norms at the earliest possible time. the charge sheet against the uk is long. it was proroguing parliament with the internal market bill and now we have the protocol bill. jonathan jones described this as even more brazen than the internal market bill and noted that the uk has shown the world that it is prepared to walk away from important treaty obligations on the flimsiest of pretexts. in addition to that, despite what minister vicky ford said yesterday, assuming she is still a minister, the european convention on human rights is something the uk government is proposing to walk away from, even though it is so firmly part of the good friday agreement.
the uachtaráin, which represents the london assembly, has lost its mind to the breataine in real terms, and has lost its real terms without any of them. it's better than not wanting to move your skirt. the convention is governed by international law, the first ever béal feirste agreement, and is signed in the north of ireland. during this period, she was encouraged to listen and work with people in the north of ireland. the future of northern ireland must be decided and parliament must support its laws.
mr president, i thank our colleagues for their unwavering support during the last number of years, and vice-president, thank you for your work. it is heartbreaking to see so much peace and progress built over such a long period – over decades, it is nothing less than heartbreaking to see that being put at risk at present. so much peace, so much developed relationships all really up for question at the moment. thirty years ago, if you travelled from south to north or north to south, you would have been met with checkpoints and police, barbed wire and guns. today, there is an open border. there is a community and business doing well and the border barely exists. that is because of the good friday agreement. it’s because of the eu’s customs union and is protected in the withdrawal agreement. the eu exists to bring down borders. the uk government’s action risks putting borders up again. dialogue is crucial, but all sides must be willing to engage in good faith, and we are not seeing that at present. the uk cannot speak about abiding by international commitments if it is not willing to respect the values of international law. the european union has shown that it is willing to engage. it is time for the british government to step back from the brink and do the same.
mr president, i want to thank the european union, the parliament, the commission, the council and all the constituent parts that make up europe for the solidarity they have shown to ireland, not only the member state that is remaining within the european union, but also for the part of our island that has been excluded from membership of the european union – and that’s a very fundamental thought to keep in mind. we need to ensure that northern ireland is not punished, is not suffering, by leaving the european union against the wishes of the majority of the people of northern ireland. the european union has shown great flexibility, great patience and great perseverance through maroš šefčovič, in terms of their understanding of the importance of ensuring there is no hard border on the island of ireland. in my lifetime – and i’m 54 years of age, i saw some harrowing events on my island. most importantly, the protocol understands that and tries to address it to ensure there is no hard border on the island. what we need now to do is to ask the british government to come back in to the tent and sit down and negotiate in good faith, under the basic principles of the withdrawal agreement, the northern ireland protocol, but more importantly, for peace and stability on the island of ireland. thank you commissioner šefčovič and thank you, parliament, for your support and solidarity on this crucial issue.
madam president, the blockade of the black sea ports by the russians and by putin is not just an attack on the ukrainian economy, it is an attack on the food supply and security of populations across the entire globe. north africa, the middle east and many other areas that depend on commodity-type products for their staple diet – like wheat, like barley and like corn – will be fundamentally challenged in feeding their populations in the short and medium term. so it is an attack on the world population and putin must be called to account on that. from our perspective, with the resources that the european union has, i do welcome the announcement of ‘solidarity lanes’. but we have to ensure that the 30 million tonnes of wheat, barley and corn that are in ukrainian-held territories can move swiftly through the european union and flow into the world food supply system. otherwise, we will be witnessing not just price increases of food, but we will be witnessing hunger and famine in the poorest regions of the world – and all because of the shameful illegal war of putin in ukraine.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, across the world, democratic values are being challenged by authoritarianism. often it takes place under the radar, through online and cyber activity, with spyware, propaganda, interference in elections, elite capture and the funding of political parties. as politicians, the only people we should be answerable to is the voters and not regimes that seek to undermine our european values. we have seen high profile european politicians funded by loans from banks with close links to putin’s regime. we have heard accusations of pegasus spyware improperly used on public figures. we’ve also read about members in this parliament whose international footprints extend across some of the least democratic areas in the world. their speeches are used as anti-western propaganda in places like china, syria, iran and russia. they praise iranian state militias as freedom fighters or fraternise with convicted russian spies. this is shameful, i believe, to see members supporting regimes that are capable of launching a missile at a shopping centre and whose troops rob from the homes of innocent civilians. i think this is a betrayal of human rights, values and self-determination, which we in this parliament always want to uphold. we need to protect our democracies. there is so much to do in all our countries. we have unfinished democracies everywhere. last march, for example, the parliament’s special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union, including disinformation produced its wide-ranging report. it is time to put these recommendations into action.
madam president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years disinformation has had a strong influence on the political choices of individual european states. russian interference in the brexit referendum is now clear, as are the historical facts about the outcome of the italian constitutional referendum in 2016. unfortunately, this has been possible because too many political parties, mass media and media outlets have been complicit. in italy, the relationship between the five star movement and the league with putin's united russia party has emerged clearly over time. and it is no coincidence that today we see useful but belated repentance in the ranks of these parties. awareness of this problem with facts has enabled europe to adopt more appropriate and stringent rules in many areas, starting with digital and in particular platforms and their use; the dsa and the code against disinformation are concrete examples. mr. president, russian interference has had one big goal in recent years: we are not going to let this happen. then it's up to us to keep our guard up to preserve our democracy.
madam president, we’ve had loads of resolutions in here condemning russia for repressing civil society and opposition figures for alleged connections with the west and now we’re doing exactly the same thing. we’ve already heard people here – to score cheap political points in their own member states – condemn as putin’s puppets those who have never supported putin or any authoritarian regime. it’s absolutely pathetic. we see increased trade union activity across europe accused of helping russia. people who oppose nato are accused of disloyalty. we talk about democracy, but where is this going to end up? those who brand us populist and anti-european have a democratic right to disagree with you on the course that europe is taking. what is being stoked up here is a scare. and just like the red scare, it’s being used to justify over-reach and repression, to undermine human rights, and to silence and harass radical voices. it’s intolerant, anti-democratic and authoritarian. you’d want to start asking yourselves what kind of europe lies at the end of this road?
madam president, in recent years the government of vladimir putin has added another disgrace to the intolerable violation of the borders of a sovereign country: chronic disinformation, which aims to destabilise western democracies. this misinformation is being cleverly relayed by far-right european political parties. false rumors and deep fakes naturally always have a larger audience than accuracy and objective analysis. fortunately, the european union has responded and tried to put an end to the wild west on the internet through legislation on digital services. being in ukraine in recent days, i have seen how deadly vladimir putin's policies have become. but beyond the dead and beyond the empty words to pay tribute to them, it is all our values that are being smashed. it is urgent that the european union takes up digital arms to defend the most fundamental values in the media and on social networks.
madam president, russia has used its actors within the eu institutions to try to legitimise its positions, to undermine sanctions policy and prevent international isolation. now one way of russian influence over the past years is through propagating the so—called ‘traditional values’. and ‘traditional values’ mean that women’s emancipation is wrong, and rights of sexual minorities should not be realised. but these restrictive and reactionary values that russia tried so hard to push have been rejected time and again, also by our eastern partner countries, not least by ukraine, that just recently ratified the istanbul convention on gender—based violence. russia has, of course, labelled this as ‘anti—family’, claiming europe and the west are degenerated regions, whereas russia is the cradle of civilisation with a great future. we, of course, have these currents represented in the eu as well in the form of orbán’s hungary and others. we need to be quite strict on transparency and tighter rules on political funding, the funding of european political parties, because they are a challenge to these influences.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the alleged relations between the russian government and the populist parties of the european union is nothing but a web of slander designed to mislead public opinion. this low-level political process is doomed to failure. we saw it in france: its use by president macron did not prevent the national rally from achieving a historic result in the parliamentary elections. the deeper objective of this debate is to create a diversion in an attempt to conceal the special report presented on 30 june by the european court of auditors. the report denounces the systematic use by the commission of consultancy firms for staggering sums of money: €1 billion a year. the court clearly denounced the lack of transparency of this procedure and the risk of conflict of interest that arose from it. the european parliament should take up this matter, which raises the problem of the proper use of public money and the interference of private and often non-european interests in the making of european laws. i'm afraid he's trying to cover up this scandal.
blue-card speech. – i made a very specific point. i think it’s interesting that a lot of the contributions here are from member states’ deputies criticising their others in cheap political point scoring. when i referred to that situation in my own country, i was talking about me. i’ve been accused of being an apologist for putin. i have never once! i would like to ask you to pinpoint any scenario, any action, any word, any deed that i did to support putin, who – as the former speaker said – is a right—wing capitalist, nationalist who would have nothing to do with anybody who is a socialist. so my points were quite specific in that regard. i would like to put to you to produce any evidence that i or my colleague have supported putin in any way.
mr president, this debate is testament to how authoritarian the eu has become. this mccarthyite hysteria is deeply anti-democratic and a bit scary. that there is a war at all is a monument to how inept, unqualified and compromised eu leaders and diplomats are right now. war is a failure of diplomacy, of dialogue and attempts at understanding. if we want to stop the bloodshed and destruction and all the terrible ramifications of the war, people need to sit around tables and talk. but the us and nato don’t want the war to stop. in the words of democratic congressman adam schiff, ‘the united states aids ukraine and our people so that we can fight russia over there and we don’t have to fight russia here’. we need more diplomacy, not less. we have two powers. the us and russia have an awful lot in common. both are run by monopoly capital, run by oligarchs on both sides. we have two imperialist powers fighting each other in ukraine, and only working class people are dying. but the eu has done nothing to stop it! so many people in here are glad the war is taking place. but the biggest threat to diplomacy and democracy in the eu today is coming from the people who pretend to defend it!
mr president, the unjustifiably high electricity bill our citizens pay has two main reasons. the main one is our endemic dependence on fossil fuels, which are much more expensive than renewables. and secondly, a deficiency in our regulatory framework which we must urgently change. one of the reasons and one of the effects that this deficient regulatory framework is causing is that, while the electricity bill is extremely high, the profits of the energy companies are extremely high and extraordinary. the international energy agency has pointed out that in 2022, 200 billion euros of benefits. in spain alone, for example, in the first half of the year, the two large electricity companies made a profit of 1 471 million. this is something we cannot tolerate and it is therefore essential to start taxing these extraordinary benefits, because we are not dealing with something that has its origin in a higher added value, but simply in a regulatory failure. it is therefore very good to start recommending to the member states that they start taxing these extraordinary benefits, but also, and i take the commissioner's word, i think that the commission should have a much stronger framework for the coordination of these measures, and i hope that the commission will act in this direction.
mr president, commissioner, as inflation in the eu shot to a new record in june, cost increases are exacting a deep toll on the economy, eating into most europeans’ wages. but for many of our largest companies and their shareholders, it has been a very different story. the pandemic, the war and the supply chain bottlenecks have created a smokescreen that allows companies to pass on inflationary costs to consumers via price increases. is it appropriate that during all this uncertainty that this be a moment in which large corporations continue to enjoy huge profits? a temporary tax that would apply to excess profits of all multinational companies is for sure a good starting point. but the long—term solution must be to reform our laws to tax the companies that benefit most from the eu’s internal market, and to stop the corporate tax-dodging that is rampant today through a global minimum tax. let’s bring in the revenue we need to support working families, and accelerate the shift to renewable energies. and let’s make this year the last year any company with massive profits pays almost no corporate tax in the eu. now it’s really time for change.
mr. chairman, thank you, getting rich when people are dying, getting rich when people can't afford food and shelter, that's war profiteering. energy prices went through the roof and took all other prices with them. to what extent these increases are justified, it is difficult to say. all we know is that energy prices for citizens in some countries have doubled despite the measures, and the profits of energy companies have quadrupled. the windfall profits of european energy companies are estimated at €200 billion. even before the crisis, as many as 34 million citizens could not afford to heat their homes. without bold moves, we won't be ready for the fall. the burden of this crisis should be borne by everyone as fairly as possible, not by those who have no pay and for those who have. and i'd like to say one more thing to these speakers, the tech giants - we're coming for you too!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a pensioner living in an 80 square meter house in italy paid a bill in february/march 2021 of 75 euros, in 2022 it has skyrocketed to 380 euros. and yet a fossil giant like eni goes from 50 million in profits in the last quarter of 2020 to 2 billion in 2021, an increase of +3,780 percent, and continues into 2022, it's impressive. as households and businesses go cold turkey and many will not be able to turn on their heating this coming winter, the energy giants are getting richer: in italy alone, almost 50 billion euros of extra profits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis. the italian government first introduces a solidarity contribution of 25 percent - ridiculous - and then cancels the tax on extra profits of gas importers. i want to make this clear: the extra profits must be returned to households and businesses.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are tens of millions of people in europe whose wages are stagnating and whose prices are skyrocketing, and they are unable to act. at the same time, there are companies like cargill, the multinational wheat company, which has been thriving since the start of the crisis: almost 5 billion in profits since last year, all because of their economic opportunism. i'm not talking about total. cargill, total, there are dozens of them. it's time to make these crisis profiteers pay. a union which claims to put citizens at the heart of its policies cannot tolerate a few taking over the other 99.9%. tax justice for social justice and livelihood for all. commissioner, do not leave the states alone and divided. the european union is the right level for this framework.
mr president, the rising energy prices are hitting a lot of people hard. but besides losers, there are winners. across europe, energy companies are making 200 billion euros in extra profits. 200 billion from the war in ukraine, from the extreme price increases. the day russia invaded ukraine, the energy companies had a winning hand. but is it fair that they should take their fate while europeans are in the cold? or is their profit an opportunity to ease the pain of others? a tax on windfall profits is the fair answer to this crisis. the commission wants it, the international energy agency wants it, and five member states with governments of the left and right have already introduced it. so my message to those left behind is: what are you waiting for? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
mr president, a windfall tax on energy companies would be welcome, but it’s not a silver bullet; a windfall tax is just a short—term solution. it would be far better to remove windfall profits through price regulation than by taxing these. france has one of the lowest inflation rates in europe, at 5.8% annually up to may, compared to the eu average of 8.8% and an irish rate of 8.3%. a big reason for this is the energy price controls france has introduced. ireland’s electricity prices increased by 41% from january to may. the average eu electricity price increase is 29% for the same period. france is only 6.5%. energy poverty is first and foremost a political failure which requires an adequate political response which tackles the root causes of injustice while ensuring a fair and sustainable future for all. energy is a public good, but we need to start treating it as such – because we haven’t been doing so.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. i'm not going to let you do this. i think i'm the first non-german speaker in this debate. this is a big deal. let's remember where this is happening. this is happening in post-soviet asia, the only country where iran has any real historical, cultural and religious influence. the rest of the countries are now a kind of ball game between turkey because that's the case with kazakhstan and kyrgyzstan and turkmenistan and uzbekistan and russia. and that's all the more important in the geopolitical context, although of course my predecessors are absolutely right. we need to talk about human rights here, we need to talk about certain standards. we are associated with this as the european union and we should proclaim this, but we should not forget as politicians that there is a geopolitical game in all this, in which we as the west, broadly understood, we as the european union, the individual member states of the european union, also have a place. so the appeal is to see on two levels. first, the level of human rights, and on this issue, of course, we have to be clear, this is a black and white film. and on the other hand, the geopolitical context, which we can't forget even in the human rights debate. because it is important that the west is also present there, not only in terms of human rights standards, but also in economic and geopolitical terms.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, last may, violent clashes occurred in the gorno-badakhshan autonomous region of tajikistan. protests started on 14 may, when several dozen residents of khorog demanded, inter alia, the resignation of the governor of the region and justice for the november 2021 violent events. tension continued to escalate in the following days and, on 18 may, the interior ministry announced the start of an anti-terrorist operation. clashes continued until 31 may and have claimed up to 40 lives. the eu delegation in dushanbe issued a joint statement with the embassies of germany, france, the uk and the us on 18 may to express strong concern about the situation in the region. the statement regretted the loss of lives, called for de-escalation and urged the tajik authorities to refrain from the excessive use of force. the eu is constantly monitoring the situation in the gorno-badakhshan autonomous region and we are deeply concerned at the crackdown targeting activists and independent journalists in the region and more widely in the country. we urge the government of tajikistan to ensure that law enforcement agencies act in strict compliance with the rule of law and respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, even in security-related crisis situations. the legitimate security concerns do not automatically mean that excessive use of force by security services should be employed. the shooting of protesters and continued arrests of local activists and civil society representatives are counterproductive, and disproportionate use of force contributes to the spiralling of violence. we remain concerned about the harsh sentences handed down to members of commission 44, a group of lawyers and human rights activists established in the gorno-badakhshan autonomous region.the eu urges the tajik government to allow the access of the international committee of the red cross in the region to open an independent and effective investigation into the circumstances that led to deaths and injuries among civilian protesters. the eu will use the next round of the eu-tajikistan human rights dialogue and the gsp plus fact-finding mission, both due to take place in september this year, to highlight these concerns and reminded the government that track record on human rights and fundamental freedoms – in particular freedom of association, peaceful assembly, expression and media freedom – are key elements for eu support to join the gsp plus scheme of preferences.
madam president, this report talks about preserving a system of multilateralism that we are presently busy destroying. what is multilateral about a block of colonialist countries, their colonial outposts, and their conquered and occupied puppet regimes conspiring together to maintain a dying global order? we unilaterally impose crushing sanctions regimes against out-of-favour states and their populations, sanctions that are killing tens of thousands of ordinary people each year. how can we even pretend the concept of eu respect for multilateralism or human rights has any meaning anymore? the g7 and nato-aligned countries, which collectively represent a minority of the world’s people, want to contain russia and china and stop eu-asia integration. the bric countries, which represent a larger portion of the world’s people, are not calling for this break – for isolation or for containment. they are clear that they want to maintain a world where multilateral institutions such as the un are respected. the eu seems to want world domination. the global south really wants genuine multilateralism. we should listen to them.
madam president, i voted against this report because, while there’s some good bits in it, overall it’s confused and deceptive. it purports to be a call to defend multilateralism, but instead it attempts to redefine it and turn it into its opposite. multilateralism in a multipolar world means working through genuinely inclusive bodies – such as the un – on the principle of sovereign equality, where each country has a say. it means listening to the people that you disagree with. it doesn’t mean groups of so-called like—minded partners forming a little gang – be it the g7 or the g20 – and negotiating your own rules and then imposing them on the rest of the world. that’s the opposite of multilateralism, but that’s the way it’s defined in this report. we should be calling instead for upholding international law. but instead this is about rules—based international order. that isn’t international law. that means the rich countries making up the rules and giving everyone else orders to follow. we couldn’t be more in need today of returning to genuine multilateralism, but unfortunately, this isn’t it.
madam president, unicef reports that every minute a child is pushed into hunger in the 15 countries most ravaged by the global food crisis. and it’s an interesting list of countries. four of them – burkina faso, chad, mali and niger – long—suffering prisoners of france’s criminal colonial currency system in the sahel, and for a decade dealing with the fallout from nato’s war of aggression on libya. yemen, reeling from seven years of embargo and us/eu-made weapons intentionally dropped on their food and water production infrastructure. haiti, whose last independent leader in 2004 was removed in a coup by france and the us. this country will never stop being punished for their revolutionary spirit. afghanistan, who after 20 years of illegal occupation and bombing by nato forces, was sanctioned and robbed by the us. now 93% of afghans are facing hunger and we can’t even help them. not only does this report ignore the fact that we imposed the sanctions that have caused the present food crisis, it also ignores the principal role the political west has played in ensuring that so many of these countries face hunger.
mr president, it is really, truly terrifying to see these record heat waves, with much of europe nearing 40 degrees and devastating consequences in italy and spain in particular, major rivers drying up, water rationing becoming the new normal. but the consequences will be even more magnified in the global south, with millions and millions suffering destructive wildfires, prolonged drought and crop failures. but for me, the most horrific thing is our western leaders’ total immobility in the face of this ever—nearing burning, destructive crisis caused by climate change. and we got a glimpse of that yesterday in the shameful decision of parliament to refuse to support the taxonomy objection in relation to nuclear and gas. we welcome the coal burning again, lng and the so-called ‘fig leaf’ of combating putin. but these decisions will have consequences. there’s no doubt that victims and the farmers need urgent support on this. we need sustainability, but we have to tackle also the root cause.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president. i really would like to appreciate this very important, passionate – and rightly so – debate on such important issues, like recent heatwaves, drought and forest fires. and i totally agree with mr de meo: this is not a problem for few but it is a problem for all europeans. and i think that i also have to say that i am in full agreement with mr ştefănuță, mr biteau, mr ros sempere, mr benefei and many others who been rightly triggering the alarm bells that, unfortunately, with the climate change through which we are going right now and in the next years and decades, that weather events are likely to happen more frequently in the future than in the past. and, therefore, your calls for attaching even more crucial importance to working together along the whole cycle of risk management, from prevention to preparedness, to work more on response, to build more resilience in our systems are absolutely correct. i can tell you that will be working with you on all of them. i think that we already learnt from the past and we developed the right tools and policies to address the broad spectrum of the risks. and we also have a funding which can help. but you are absolutely correct as well that, if you look at it through the experience of the last months, last years, we need to be able constantly reviewing, adjusting and adapting our policies. and, therefore, the call of ms rodríguez ramos to work on disaster-resilience goals is absolutely correct. we are already working on that, and i think that here again will be working with you and with our member states on how to make sure that we would proceed with better climate adaptation, with mitigation investments, especially in the most exposed regions, which we saw represented by the members of the european parliament who intervened this morning. and what we can do better through cohesion, cohesion funding, and base our next steps, not only on the past experience, but also on strengthened foresight and anticipation. mr de meo, mr barrena arza, ms grapini have been asking: what can we do more on top of the better use of the solidarity fund – which i described in my introductory remarks is to be beefed up, to be accelerated? what kind of other compensatory measures could be put in place? the quick feedback i can give you is that we are talking with our member states on the possibility which they have; and they can compensate farmers under the rural development programmes and they can ask to modify their national programmes as relevant. and this is already happening with several eu member states. all of you make a strong reference to the climate change and to the need to be very ambitious in implementation of the european green deal. and i would like to reassure you that, for us, part of the green deal is not only reducing co2 emissions. this is also part and parcel of our strategy: how to beef up our biodiversity strategy. if you simply see: if you will not restore biodiversity, the nature will simply push us hard to remind us that simply there are basic laws of physics, basics of how the how the earth is functioning. and we shouldn’t interfere with this natural cycle of events. therefore, just recently we presented a nature-protection package to make sure that our efforts are geared to restore and protect the ecosystems. and i know that this is of a big interest to the honourable members of this house, and we are ready to work with you to further improve our approach and to make sure that we will deliver on this very important strategy. ms luena and mr motreanu have been highlighting the danger of potential desertification, not only in europe but in the world. and, therefore, we just presented the soil strategy for 2030. and, in this strategy, we have actions to not only monitor the desertification in the eu, but we want also to step up with concrete actions both at home and globally. and coming back to the foresight, which, as you know, is part of my portfolio: again, the honourable member has been right. there is very clear foresight that if the climate change would continue at the pace as it is right now, in a few decades, we might we might have 10% less arable land globally, which, of course would have very severe consequences, especially for the for the development of countries. if it comes to the emergencies, to the preparedness, to the drought, we have the ways how to respond to, in the short-term emergency measures through our use eupm mechanisms and through our recently refurbished and upgraded eu-wide early warning systems. we already are working with some of our member states who already adopted to drought-management plans for vulnerable rivers – this is the response to mr bogovič – and probably we have to learn from that experience how to do it for all relevant member states where they face this very important challenge. but this is obviously not enough. and in the long run, what we need to do is to scale up better water use in agriculture. we have to look at sustainable soil management and the vegetation cover, and we have to invest, as it was said by many: drought-resistant crops and restore damaged areas. and if you allow me to conclude, i would like to appreciate the way how mr tajani, mr dorfmann mr sandere, ms luena highlighted that what we are discussing here today is not a narrow issue, that it has very strong horizontal impact on different policies we are discussing together. this is not only the issue of climate change, emergency measures or being better prepared for the future challenges. it has to do a lot with our common agricultural policy. it has to do a lot with the modern precision farming, with using new technologies, like drones, satellites for better anticipation prediction. but also for using these new technologies in this very important sector. and it has to do a lot with using our funds under research and innovation to make sure that we will deploy the best possible technologies, best approaches and the best crops for use in agriculture. to conclude, honourable members, i would like to say that i hear you loud and clear: that you would like us to act swifter, faster, closer with you, closer with member states, closer with the regions under pressure, and that we are ready to do so. and we will be discussing this with you, with the member states to make sure they will be permanently upgrading our policy responses to this very important challenge. thank you very much, mr president, and thank very much, honourable members, for this very important discussion.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session.
the next item is the report (a9-0199/2022) by mr søren gade, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a level playing field for sustainable air transport (com (2021) 0561 - c9-0332/2021 - 2021/0205 (cod)).
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission would like to congratulate mr gade for the report, which was overwhelmingly adopted in the tran committee on 27 june. we would also like to thank him for the excellent work he has carried out on refuel aviation with the support of ten shadow rapporteurs and associated committees (envi and itre). it is good to see this important file moving forward. as you know, as an important element of the ‘fit for 55’ package, it is a key deliverable of the european green deal and will play a crucial role in decarbonising aviation. we urgently need to create a market for sustainable aviation fuels and put aviation on the path to carbon neutrality by 2050. sustainable aviation fuels are an essential component to contribute to decarbonising aviation in the near term, in particular for medium and long-haul flights. but liquid fuels are expected to remain predominant at least until 2050. when deployed at large scale, they will enable a significant reduction in co2 and other pollutant emissions from the sector, allowing citizens to connect by plane across the eu and beyond more responsibly already in the short term. the report adopted in the tran committee is the result of a well-balanced compromise following months of discussions. whilst, as usual at this stage, the commission reserves its judgement until it formally enters into trilogue discussions with the european parliament and council, we consider that the report we are debating today goes in the right direction on many aspects, even if some elements are of concern. the commission particularly welcomes the report’s emphasis on the need for an eu-level harmonised regulation that provides for a level playing field for aviation in the eu internal market. in addition, the proposed sustainable aviation fuels allowance scheme could help bridge the remaining price gap between these fuels and fossil fuels, while the creation of a fund dedicated to sustainability might deserve further analysis. we also welcome provisions on better monitoring of substances causing non-co2 effects. on other aspects of the report, the commission has some reservations as some of the amendments could reduce the efficiency of the regulation. let me mention three points of critical importance. first, it is key to make sure that the regulation supports innovative sustainable aviation fuels, technologies and feedstock with high decarbonisation and scalability potential. expanding the ‘sustainable aviation fuels’ definition could delay investments in advanced biofuels and e-fuels, which are needed in very large volumes already in the medium term. quality should prevail over quantity. setting higher binding targets must be carefully considered in terms of the overall environmental integrity of the proposal, the burden placed on air carriers and the need to maintain a well-functioning aviation market. the regulation should aim to ensure a level playing field among air operators and airports within the eu and to avoid carbon leakage. and finally, on the transition period, we must keep in mind the objective that sustainable aviation fuels should be physically available at all airports as soon as possible. there is no evidence that establishing a book and claim system – in other words, a virtual sustainable aviation fuels market – would bring any benefits, nor that such a system could be put in place without risks of fraud. in conclusion, there is a clear need for swift action, and we have a clear pathway. by delivering a robust legal framework, we will encourage investments and allow the eu sustainable aviation fuels production capacity to scale up at the necessary pace to meet our climate goals. i look forward to the discussion today and, once again, i thank the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs for their work on this file.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by praising the spirit of openness and commitment of the rapporteur, mr søren gade, in this negotiating process, but also extending my thanks to all my colleagues in the other political groups. i think that we have succeeded in having a constructive, reasoned debate, which has often led to divergent and even antagonistic positions, and which has only enhanced the value of the document we are going to put to the vote today. we all recognise that the aviation sector is facing a difficult transition process, but as difficult as it is, it is necessary for its decarbonisation. we have recognized this from the legislator, and the economic operators in this industry have also recognized it. the technologies for the production of synthetic fuel are still at an early stage of development. we therefore advocate a broader definition of sustainable aviation fuels, in the spirit of greater openness to various technological solutions, particularly when it comes to biofuels. this extended spectrum would allow for greater flexibility and make the european commission's targets for 2025 more realistic. because it's not enough to be ambitious, we have to be pragmatic. we need to base our decisions on facts. we must not be drawn into utopias or ideological dogmas which only create problems for industry but which, above all, create problems for people, for citizens who want and need to travel, and do little to contribute to the ultimate goal of zero emissions by 2025. the text we are about to vote on, ladies and gentlemen, is broadly balanced and is ready to help the industry which is so important for europe. however, i would like to say that i believe that the targets set for synthetic fuels are at an unrealistic level, especially in the short term, which is likely to create problems, especially for the southern and eastern member states. without production at scale finish already at competitive prices, the linking to such targets will create imbalances in the internal market which will be difficult to overcome in the transition period. in short, we do not want to create more difficulties for our citizens without even achieving the environmental objectives, and that is what we as legislators have to avoid.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, i would like to congratulate søren gade, because his proposal, while balanced and realistic, will be able to turn good intentions into concrete deeds. that is the best compliment that can be made to a legal text. the text is more stringent with the percentages of progressive use of sustainable fuels in aviation, which will apply to all airlines operating more than 500 flights a year; it makes airport managers responsible for providing them with the necessary infrastructure; it addresses the problems of the outermost regions; it updates the list of sustainable fuels, with the exception of those derived from raw materials whose production can compete with food, and it requires the list to be updated every three years to incorporate the innovations produced by innovation (in fact, during these negotiations, sources such as electricity or synthetic fuels produced from green hydrogen, which are an example of technological progress, have already been introduced). the text also proposes a monitoring and sanctioning system to prevent fraud, punish it when it occurs and allocate the money raised by sanctions to innovation in this field, an example of how to turn a fine into a circular economy exercise.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we just heard of record temperatures and droughts affecting the european union, so it’s a fitting time to discuss the decarbonisation of aviation. this refueleu proposal is a positive step forward. unfortunately, while the commission proposal lacks the ambition needed to decarbonise aviation’s fuel mix as rapidly as the climate emergency demands, this parliament has opted to weaken the proposal and the ambition further, specifically, when it comes to how we define a sustainable fuel. if we get this wrong, the decision will come back to haunt us in the years to come. it is crucial that we get it right, because with the first—generation biofuels, we failed to anticipate the problems that arose. regrettably, the tran committee agreed on a weakened definition of sustainable aviation fuel, and itre and envi, who share competence, approved the commission’s definition. this expanded definition allows unsustainable fuels to be burnt in planes: palm oil by-products, food crops and recycled carbon fuels. the use of biofuels will have severe land-use change impacts, and that means more and more amounts of land will be needed to grow food and feed and power planes. that is why the additional biofuel feedstocks added by tran are so problematic. they include palm fatty acid distillates, a palm oil by-product, which means forests will be cleared to meet demand. they also include intermediate crops, which in europe are often grown for environmental reasons related to soil health, but outside the eu, they’re grown as cash crops. for this reason, i urge colleagues to return to the commission’s definition of biofuels, and i am glad that the major european airlines agree with our view. amendments 112, 118 and 136 can address these issues. let’s send a signal to the markets today that europe wants to ramp up production of e-fuels, not unsustainable biofuels. we can make europe a market leader in e-fuel production, which will help reduce their costs. parliament’s vote today can decide if aviation plays its part in addressing the climate emergency. industry and technology are ready. today is a crucial day for ensuring that aviation plays its part in addressing the climate emergency, and i hope we can meet this challenge.
on behalf of the ecr group. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security. recent years have shown how many jobs have disappeared because of the drastic reduction in the number of flights. the war in ukraine, rising fuel and ticket prices, and the congestion in european airspace are again threatening the future of the industry. it is a mistake to try to impose on this sector, at such a dramatic moment, additional and costly obligations which affect the competitiveness of european airlines and the cost of air travel. we agree that innovative, environmentally friendly and sustainable fuels will help reduce emissions in aviation. we appreciate the rapporteur's openness to our arguments and the inclusion of many of the ecr group's proposals. we fully support the creation of a fund to invest in research into alternative fuels for aviation. the definition of sustainable aviation fuel developed by the transport committee is also a good compromise. however, the proposed timetable for increasing the share of this type of fuel by airlines is, like the whole 'fit for 55' package, detached from economic and social realities. that is why we cannot support this report.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, i would like to acknowledge and appreciate the efforts of our rapporteur who absolutely strove might and main to try and deal with this file and be as inclusive as possible. and him and his staff deserve credit for that. but having said that, the final text is just not credible for us in terms of the sector dealing adequately with its decarbonisation requirements, primarily because of the decision to broaden the definition of sustainable aviation fuels, which we strenuously oppose on the grounds that this is actually not sustainable. without the caps and restrictions, the text opened the door for new biofuels, which are just not suitable for air transport. and during the discussions, we did warn about the risks of fraud with, for example, used cooking oil, which is mainly imported from outside the eu. while we have strengthened the text to improve the information provided by suppliers, at the same time, there’s no sign of a cap as applied in the renewable energy directive, which we thought was very unfortunate. so, obviously aviation is energy intensive. the demands for the feedstocks qualified by the current definition would be absolutely enormous. it includes by—products of the palm oil industry, intermediate crops, and would produce massive risks for land-use change, disastrous for the environment, communities and biodiversity. and what we’re really trying to do here is square a circle. we’re accepting increased demand, which in turn means increased fuel—led demand for feedstocks which are considered sustainable while at the same time their availability is limited. this is in contradiction with the energy strategy promoted by european authorities, which involves also trying to address lowering consumption. and we’re not doing that in this report. aviation is going to continue to be dependent on fossil fuels for a long time, the price of which is going to continue to rise and be borne by workers, passengers and the climate. i think it’s all well and good to debate different targets up to 2050, but even if we have a target of 100%, it’s not going to matter if the definition allows inappropriate feedstocks. so, if we don’t address that, we simply cannot vote for this report. i also think the exclusion of private aircraft – so the wealthy who create most of the problems anyway again are being excluded and pay the least – is regrettable, and the exclusion of military aircraft is also regrettable, particularly in the period of increased traffic. so again, like my colleague ciarán cuffe, we need these amendments to be passed before we can accept this report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to add one word to the title 'better legislation'. it should be: less but better legislation. i also propose that we stop using directives and base legislation solely on regulations, in order to achieve harmonized legislation within the european union. we'll need fewer lawyers, which would be good. it is very good to involve as many parties as possible in an advisory capacity in the drafting of new legislation. i'll give you one example that i recently discovered. we have an en standard for smoke detectors, 14064. these are mandatory in every home in the netherlands from 1 july, and that is fine to give people security. but what does it show? the elderly were not heard when that legislation was drafted. the volume of these tones is not heard by 40% of the elderly. i call on the commission to investigate as soon as possible to avoid any casualties.
mr president, mr vice-president, dear colleagues, better law-making is a nice idea. we all share this view. that requires courage, deliberations, transparency and accountability. these goals of better law-making are undermined by the involvement of the regulatory scrutiny board. this board can stop legislative proposals internally up to the need to be overruled by the college of commissioners. it has vetoed more than 40% of first-round impact assessment reports in recent years. it managed, by its double veto, to meaningfully water down the commission proposal for a directive on corporate sustainability due diligence, as shown by an insightful report of the corporate europe observatory. this report shows evidence of massive one-sided lobbying of the regulatory scrutiny board, which led to a narrowing-down of the scope and of the director’s duties. we can discuss all these issues politically, but the place for these discussions and for these decisions to change the ambitious legislative process is here in the european parliament, because we are elected by the citizens and accountable to them.
the costly, disruptive circus of moving houses here is a result of european legislation and regulations. people in europe don't understand this at all. in the netherlands alone, billions are spent annually on legislation to combat money laundering. it's not working for a meter, and the customers are suffering. it is now almost impossible to open a bank account as a result of european laws and regulations. and it's hurting people. so the question is: how come politicians make laws and rules that are useless, that are costly and create big problems? there is never a proper cost-benefit analysis when europe is deciding on legislation and regulation. the people of europe are crying out for tangible results, for investment in the future. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. that's what people use! there are laws and regulations. we need to create businesses that actually matter to people.
mr president, the european parliament has the distinction of being the only directly elected institution of the european architecture, the only one legitimized by the vote. but it is the only parliament in the world that is supranational and legislative. so when we talk about 'better legislation', we have to remember that there is no deficit of democratic legitimacy or legislative power in this european parliament. what is lacking is communication, because of the abstruse and obscure language often used in european legislation. vice-president šefčovič, better legislation is also to require member states to comply with the current legislation in force, to concentrate more on regulations directly binding on member states which create rights for citizens, so that the commission fulfils its duty as guardian of the treaties and european legislation by requiring that, in the case of non-compliant states, infringement procedures be initiated, financial sanctions imposed or, where appropriate, brought before the court of justice, and to ensure that the judgments of the court of justice guarantee the primacy of european law. that's better lawmaking, too.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first and foremost, i would like to thank you for your interest, for your passion, for a very lively discussion we have right now. and i have also to congratulate the rapporteur, mr tiemo wölken, because i think he could clearly feel also from this debate that there is strong support for his report and for his close work with his partners and colleagues in the european parliament. and i think that also this debate clearly highlighted what kind of complex political and at the same time technical topic we are we are discussing this morning, and that all of you underline what kind of great benefits to our citizens and businesses we can bring if we get this right. and of course, to do so, we need to – many of you referred to it – listen better, get closer to our stakeholders, engage them more, and gather many and different views. and i want to reassure you that we are permanently looking into ways how to improve further the consultations with our citizens, despite the fact that the oecd is ranking us as best public administration in the world when it comes to the quality of consultations with stakeholders. but we are going to introduce also a pan-european initiative and clear citizens proposals and citizens panels, where we can discuss our proposals before they become official proposals. we are going to use the digital platform which we developed for better communicating with our citizens, where we are using, for example, artificial intelligence to translate automatically so everyone can communicate with everyone in their own language, which i believe will bring us closer together. and this was, i would say, also a message mr mituta was presenting to us and what we discussed together, working in one working group with our citizens. what we need to do more is deliver more and precise facts and base our policies on evidence. and we are doing this through a very thorough impact assessment, which we are working on together with our dgs and with the regulatory scrutiny board, to which i will come to in a second. and then i think, many of you also highlighted, and i think this is our common task, how we would explain more transparently, in a more understandable language, in a simple way, what legislation is about, how to respect it, and what kind of goods and benefits it brings to european businesses, to the european democracy, and to european political life, and on how we can always do better. but i think that thanks to the permanent focus the european parliament is paying to this area, we are improving our performance every year. if you allow me just to elaborate on the three areas, which i heard the most on from the honourable members, three areas of even increased focus. first, i agree with you, and i think it was very well described by madame regimenti that we need to better anticipate the challenges that are emerging and ensure that we develop agile, futureproof legislation. and therefore, what we do right now systematically at dg level, and the regulatory scrutiny board takes it into account as well, future proofing of our legislation where we really are taking the best evidence from our foresight reports and making sure that we would have instruments in every legislation to adjust the proposals to future development. second, i agree with all of you who said that it would be crucial to strike the right balance in the implementation of the new one-in, one-out approach in burden reduction, while keeping the benefits of this legislation in mind. mrs toom was referring to important legislation like the dsa, dma, cbam, all of them, which are huge impacts on how our businesses and citizens would live. mr kelly and madam dlabajová were referring to the importance of smes and therefore we transform our smes test to be regular, to be systemic, and that the window for smes is properly functioning. and to mr wölken and mr scholz, i just would like to reassure them that if it comes to one-in, one-out, we really develop the detailed guidelines for services, including the internal it tool for calculating and encoding their costs. we call it the one-in, one-out calculator. but there is nothing secret or nothing difficult about this, because this calculator is based on the standard cost model, which is used by major organisations. again, we discussed it in to great extent with oecd, and the services are using the standard cost model for the daily routine. and what we did was that we included it into our better regulation toolbox and data is taking from the impact assessments and are publicly known. and we are going to present you the first results of this one-in, one-out to our pilot experience in this annual burden survey and the full report not only on how we are treating the issue, of course, but also how we are going to offset it in the next year. third, a very important point mentioned by many of you was that we can do much more together, and i think that we indeed need to fully implement our internal institutional agreement on better law-making because it is our joint responsibility and we should legislate this efficiently as possible. and two points, one to mr barrena arza, i think that we had an excellent report from mr rangel on the right of initiative, where thanks to our close-ups and coordination, we have 100% success of 18 initiative reports you presented. we delivered 18 very concrete responses in the form of the proposals from the commission, and i totally agree with our colleague, mr lópez aguilar, pressure on better transposition and delivery from the member states if it comes to european law. madame hautala, she asked me before for the response, and i would like to say that if we want, and if we were to bring our specific tailor-made rules on different administrative procedures within one single legal act, we would, in our opinion, rather reduce than increase the transparency and clarity of existing rules. but of course, i am very much looking forward to seeing the fresh ideas coming from there, from the juri committee, so we can work on this issue together. and to mr ruiz devesa, i just would like to reassure him that the joint legislative portal will show the formal steps of the law-making process in the ordinary legislative procedures and also in formal interinstitutional negotiations. so i hope that it would bring additional transparency and clarity to our decision-making process. mr president, you’ve been very gentle with me, letting me go over the time, so i would just conclude with reassuring the members of the european parliament that we are open for any ideas, any suggestions how to make it clear, as madam niebler was saying, to the eventual applicants for the eu funds to find the proper information on the websites. that we do not want to legislate more, but we want to legislate better and not to legislate worse. and so these would be the principles, which would guide us in the future. and i am looking forward to the close cooperation with the parliament on this issue. and once again, i want to congratulate mr tiemo wölken for his excellent report.
before i give the floor to mr wölken, can we clarify once again whether this is working with the interpretation? the german cabin i hear the german sound now, yes. the sound from the podium... but can you hear me? but not from the microphone... i'll take that.
we are now resuming the debate on the report by mr tiemo wölken, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on better lawmaking, which was interrupted by a technical problem. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
rapporteur. – madam president, i am glad that so many colleagues are interested in our report on better law—making and following this debate. thank you very much for that. i know that we need to be quick so that everyone can catch the train back home i want to thank mr šefčovič for the presentation and for his promises to work hard together with the european parliament to enhance the legislation process. it’s very necessary. i would like to thank all the colleagues who contributed in the debate, underlining that transparency is of the utmost importance. unfortunately, we don’t have transparency when it comes to the regulatory scrutiny board, which is still an internal commission body, but we will work on that – because it is necessary that all decisions related to law—making are transparent and can be scrutinised by the meps in this house. delays by the regulatory scrutiny board in the legislative process are highly undemocratic. we saw it on the due diligence legislation: it was postponed twice, and now we are under extreme time pressure to deliver in this crucial area, and this is really not acceptable. i would also like to thank everybody who supported that we do want to have faster proceedings and that we want to have proceedings which also take into account social and economic aspects in the law—making process. and so i would hope that everyone can support this report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today.
madam president, i would like to raise a point of order in accordance with rule 195 and rule 10. yesterday, during the debate on russian relations with european parties, ms evin incir from the s&d group accused my swedish colleagues in the ecr of having direct connections with and financing from the kremlin. this is a defamatory accusation. furthermore, it came from a member of the social democrats of sweden, a party with a shameful pro-soviet past. it came from a member of the s&d group, a group which includes former communists and kremlin flunkies, and is the home of the german socialist party, once led by the infamous gerhard schröder. let me emphasise that there is no greater or more consistent critic of the kremlin’s policy in this parliament than the ecr group. therefore, i expect ms evin incir to withdraw her statement and i would kindly request, madam president, that you act in accordance with our rules.
i am not saying that we should not vote on the motion for a resolution, but we should vote on the motion for a resolution.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, the political point here is enlarging the scope of article 83 as the legal basis for adopting legislation on criminal matters. the procedural point we had on tuesday was the urgent procedure for the vote we’re having today, which is the consent for the commission to take initiative.
that concludes the voting. (the sitting was suspended at 12.45 p.m.)
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. is there any objection? the minutes of yesterday's sitting have been approved.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the development of an eu strategy for cycling by karima delli, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (o-000025/2022 b9-0017/2022) (2022/2726 ((rsp)).
author. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that the question of the bicycle is finally being discussed in this house. it is the first step towards a european cycling strategy. the committee on transport and tourism, which i chair, took up this matter a few weeks ago and prepared this oral question for the european commission, which will be followed by a resolution after the summer. the aim is now to finally consider cycling not only as a sport and leisure activity but also as a genuine means of transport, with an industrial policy and dedicated funding. because yes, the bicycle is a means of transport that represents many benefits in terms of health, reducing congestion on our roads and therefore pollution, not to mention environmental benefits when we talk about co2, or economic benefits when we talk about the question of the purchasing power of european citizens. 8% of eu citizens use the bicycle as their main means of daily transport. the proportion reaches 36% in the netherlands, 23% in denmark, 22% in hungary, but only 1% in cyprus or portugal, or 4% in france. there's still a lot to do. for example, the european commission has been working for some time to include cycling in multimodal transport policies by integrating it into ongoing initiatives. we must remember, ladies and gentlemen, that our commission started this work by putting more bicycles on trains. today, the revision of the regulation on the trans-european transport network (the famous ten-t) and the implementation of sustainable urban mobility plans are strategic tools to help increase the modal share of cycling in the cities of the european union. a more strategic european approach that allows for safer and more widespread cycling can therefore make a real contribution to the 'fit for 55' strategy, the adjustment to the 55 target and the repowereu plan. this is very important, because we cannot have an effective modal shift towards cycling without massively developing dedicated lanes, with a separation from car and bus traffic. cycling is a real asset for - i repeat - not only to reduce co2 and air pollution considerably, but also to limit our dependence on fossil fuels, which is a highly strategic issue. the commission has therefore started work on the path of this transition for the mobility ecosystem to help the sector to achieve the dual transition - green, but also digital - and to improve its resilience. the bicycle industry, including electric bicycle manufacturers and subcontractors, will need to be recognised as a key partner in the mobility ecosystem, a real new industrial strategy for the european union, and infrastructure funding programmes and systems of tomorrow. it is important to reduce our dependence on third countries and, when it comes to the bicycle, in particular on asia for a number of manufacturing parts, and to unclog supply chains. so let us say it here in the european parliament: let us give ourselves the objective of the 'made in europe' bicycle. yes, the bicycle is a real challenge for sustainable mobility, but it is also a real industrial opportunity for europe. when it's good for the climate, it's good for the job. and in europe, about 20 million new bicycles are sold every year, of which 10% or 2 million are electric bicycles. so, in addition to the bicycle chain, there's the battery chain, which are infinitely interconnected. we are lagging behind in this battery sector, but increasingly - we see this all over europe - 'gigafactories' are being set up in the territories. and the bicycle is the two-wheeler in the broadest sense. we have very good innovations, very good start-ups of bike sharing, micro-mobility in europe, cargo bikes, delivery, leasing, and so on. there are 1 million green jobs in europe in the bicycle sector alone. what are we waiting for to really get this industry relocated to europe and double sales and usage? so, in the light of what i have said, can the european commission answer the following questions: does it intend to publish a european strategy for cycling in the near future? how does it intend to complement or extend the urban mobility framework and the mission for climate neutral and smart cities to the european union? are there any plans to develop safe, secure and adapted infrastructures? and finally - i conclude, mr president - do you intend to include the european bicycle industry... (the president withdrew the floor)
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, dear karima, the commission would like to thank the european parliament, and particularly the honourable member delli, for giving it the opportunity to reply on these important questions on eu initiatives and cycling. the importance of cycling is highlighted by the role it plays in the eu’s sustainable urban mobility planning concept, as well as awareness-raising campaign of the european mobility week and cities initiative. cycling also features very prominently in the new eu urban mobility framework and in the proposal for a revised ten-t regulation, both published in december last year. it is included also in the revision of the energy performance of buildings directive. so now let me go into more detail in reply to the questions you raised. in response to the question related to publication of the eu cycling strategy in the near future, i would underline that the commission fully agrees with the importance of cycling and believes that this is already well reflected in its policy priorities. this position was also recalled by evp timmermans in this speech delivered in copenhagen at a cycling summit where he announced that the european commission should work together with the european parliament on an interinstitutional european declaration on more cycling in europe. this declaration could already reflect several of your demands, to give more prominence as to how european policies can support cycling. this is especially the case in member states, if in the council are also invited to take part in such a future declaration. in response to the question on measures to complement and/or extend the eu urban mobility framework and the eu climate neutral and smart cities mission to support cycling and increase its share, i would like to recall the following. the commission considers that the new eu urban mobility framework provides an adequate basis for promotion of cycling at the eu level. it announces some actions that will further reinforce active mobility, for example, by setting clear priorities to favour these modes in the upgraded sustainable urban mobility planning concept to be published by the end of 2022. the above, coupled with the proposed requirements in the revised trans-european transport network regulation regarding adoption of sustainable urban mobility plans by the major cities should result in accelerated growth of cycling share across the eu. in the recent eu save energy communication, the commission highlighted the importance of active mobility in reducing europe’s dependence on fossil fuels. this could be measures supporting bike-sharing, incentivising bike purchases through bike-purchase subsidies or vat reductions, incentives for employees that use public transport or active modes of commuting to work. the proposed energy performance of buildings directive already foresees that public buildings should include sufficient parking spaces for bikes and e-bikes and further potential in combination with repowereu solar rooftop initiative and workstreams under the european bauhaus. there are three more questions. unfortunately, no time. (the president interrupts the speaker.) may i continue? thank you so much. so, in the response to the questions on inclusion of the eu bicycle industry in the list of eu industries covered by the eu industrial strategy, in line with the methodology used on their analyses of industrial ecosystems presented in the annual single market report 2021, the manufacture of bicycles has been explicitly included in the mobility transport automotive industrial ecosystem under the eu industrial strategy. the next step in the co-creation process for that transition pathway will be the organisation of cross-sectoral roundtables in the second half of 2022, in which stakeholders from the eu bicycle industry will be invited to take part. the manufacturing of bikes and e-bikes carries considerable potential in europe, and the emergence of bike valleys and their surrounding value chains in member states are highly relevant also for transporting employees with the right skills from, for example, jobs in the supply chain for internal combustion engines towards new jobs in this wider ecosystem for new mobility, including the manufacturing of e-bikes. and last but not least, in response to the subquestion on the plans to develop eu-level requirements for safe and convenient cycling infrastructure, i would like to recall the following. ensuring the safety of cycling infrastructure is largely the responsibility of local, regional and national governments. however, for cycling in urban areas in particular, the commission has overseen the production of several guidance documents to help municipalities to incorporate cycling into sustainable urban mobility plans. the road infrastructure safety management directive includes a number of provisions that are of relevance to cyclists when carrying out network-wide road safety assessments. member states need to assess cycling crossings and the type of cycling facilities. according to the directive, the commission should also provide guidance on quality requirements regarding vulnerable road users. in conclusion, the actions i have just outlined will also help the implementation of the objectives of the smart and sustainable mobility strategy, which provides for doubling of the length of cycling infrastructure by 2030 from 2 300 kilometres to 5 000 kilometres, and for the more effective inclusion of the cycling as one of the ten-t last mile solutions. thank you very much and i look forward to your comments.
thank you, commissioner simpson and i apologise. it was a demanding week and suddenly i looked at the watch and i followed a reflex. also we have some indicated time for the commissioner, of course the commission can speak as long as the commission wants, and i do not need to treat them so hard as i am asked to treat the members. so, next is colleague virkkunen for one minute.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, audience, it’s a great pleasure to speak about cycling here. not only because, personally, i like cycling very much, but also because i see that cycling has great potential in our transport system and especially in urban mobility. when we speak about decarbonisation, we know that cycling can contribute to significant reductions in co2 emissions and air pollution and help also reduce dependence on fossil fuels, contributing to our climate goals. in addition, it has many other benefits, such as less road congestion, and it improves health for individuals too. so cycling can therefore greatly improve the quality of life in our cities. cycling-friendly infrastructure, including street design and parking facilities, is key to increasing cycle use in urban areas. so cycling should be recognised as a transport mode at eu level. including cycling in the revised trans-european transport network and sustainable urban mobility plans could help to increase the share of cycling in eu cities. when we speak about digitalisation, cycling and public bike-sharing are also generating lots of data and various services. therefore, cycling data should be integrated into the standardisation and harmonisation of multimodal and real-time transport data.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, we started this session with a moment of silence for the victims of terrorism and climate change. europe is experiencing extreme weather events, from deadly heat waves, drought, wildfires, to tornadoes and devastating floods. beyond the material damage, it all means loss of human life. pollution also kills over 400 000 europeans every year. so a cycling strategy is not an easy summer topic. it is an important piece of our fight for the future of europe and it must happen quickly, because we are running out of time. bicycles mean sustainable transport and tourism, pollution control, fuel independence, economy and health for our citizens. let's not forget that bike tourism has already revitalized entire communities and brought them the chance of a sustainable income. let's not forget the huge demand for bicycles in the pandemic and the clear message sent by europeans, who are becoming more and more fans of this means of transport. we also urgently need bicycle infrastructure in all member states, from bike lanes to bike-sharing services and dedicated car parks. europeans need to be encouraged to use bicycles, and it is our duty to provide them with the framework to do so safely. local authorities need to be helped to access the necessary funds in a simple, efficient and bureaucratic way. and i stress again, the time for discussion is over. it's time to act. if we don't, our children will never forgive us.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner, for being with us today. it was the author h.g. wells who said, ‘when i see an adult on a bicycle, i have hope for the human race’. i think the same could apply to a child on a bicycle. i do believe, when it comes to the european green deal, that cycling can deliver. it lowers emissions, it cleans the air, it improves road safety and it allows us to live longer, healthier lives. so it must be placed at the heart of the eu’s transport strategy. if we want improved quality of life, if we want liveable communities where our children can stay safe, if we want to live our lives at peace with the planet, then we must place the bicycle at the heart of our transport policies and plans. no other means of transport allows us to travel with a smile on our face and comfortably socialise with friends and neighbours as we travel significant distances in a leisurely manner. so, commissioner, we need a dedicated cycling policy. we need an eu cycling strategy – and i’m glad to hear you say that this is on the way – but we do need dedicated governance structures and we need the funding, because the more we build safe cycling infrastructure, the more people will cycle. the eu can help us achieve this. if we build it, they will come. i think we have to include cycling in the ten-t network and i think, particularly when we look at the eurovelo network, we need to have one person, a coordinator, to ensure that it is delivered and to oversee this task. we also need a recommendation on safe speed limits from the commission. we know that 30 kilometre/hour speed limits save lives and we need the commission to take the lead on road safety and protecting vulnerable road users. it’s a strong disincentive to many, and 30 kilometre/hour speed limits would help encourage more people to cycle. one final thing: we need dedicated bike parking spaces and e—bike parking spaces. with the energy performance of buildings directive we can incorporate this. so i look forward to working with you on this. look, the message is very simple on cycling: if we build it, people will come, and we as an institution need to do more to encourage this.
mr president, i very much welcome the strategy. i think it’s a very positive development and i hope that the resources are put in place by member states throughout the european union to ensure that we have an integrated policy around cycling. of course the real challenge here is that we want to address the climate issue, the climate change, and we want to ensure that cycling and bicycles are part of that transition to a carbon neutral economy, and from that perspective it has to be integrated. we cannot have a situation where bikes are not able to be parked at work, mentions and references to arriving at work after what could be long distances, or in ireland’s case, cycling steep hills to work, and being unable to wash, put on fresh clothes in advance of a day’s work. so there’s a lot of work to be done to ensure that it is an integrated, seamless system of transport integrated into the broader transport scheme. i also would like to see a great emphasis on leisure cycling and i know many countries have done exceptional work on that, and ireland is starting that process too of rolling out greenways. but i do believe that cycling, as part of a sort of family recreation, leisure for elderly people getting out, getting active, that greenways must be supported in every member state across the union and specifically in ireland itself as well.
mr president, there was a good skit doing the rounds in the last week about how a banker persuades an economist that cycling is bad for the planet by explaining that a cyclist doesn't buy cars, doesn't borrow money to buy them, doesn't pay for insurance policies, doesn't buy fuel, doesn't pay for maintenance or needs repairs and doesn't pay for parking. and actually, they are much healthier as well. in other words, the point being made was that there are substantial vested interests from the car industry standing in the way of the development of the revolutionary change that is necessary if we are to really turn to the type of potential that a cycling strategy could have. i'm a huge car fan. i've always loved my car, but the days of the car being the mode of private transport are over. the only way forward is cycling and proper public investment in public transport. my colleague, the cyclist seán kelly, made the point about katie melua, the irish-georgian singer who is playing in strasbourg, and she had a song 12 years ago called ‘there are 9 million bicycles in beijing’. there are probably 90 million of them there now because the chinese understand that to run cities, we need bicycles and public transport rather than cars.
mr. chairman, i have a question for all of the colleagues here who are defending this strategy. my question requires a very quick answer. which of you came from your hometown here on a bicycle? can you raise your hand? maybe our fellow communists from ireland came by bicycle? mrs. kelly, did you come on a bicycle? from ireland? that's news because between ireland and europe there's an ocean, a sea. you're heroes, good for you, you managed to swim across on a bicycle, maybe a water bike, congratulations. why do i say that? it's very nice to talk these jokes and pranks, it's very nice to go these stories, but this is another, mrs. daley, a good debate for nothing, to be honest, scratching tongues, it does not reflect the realities. there are places in europe where you can and should ride a bike, there are places where it snows in winter and it's hard, there are heights and you can't. but since the colleagues here are competing to be the greenest, no one has come from their hometown on a bicycle. what does that tell you? he says that once again the time of the european taxpayers is being wasted by jokes and jokes and stories from the "ship's-tree", i apologize to the translators.
mr president, mr dzhambazki’s point is a relevant point, and it actually emphasises the fact that it’s absolute madness that we actually come here all the way from brussels most of the time, and that we should actually stay in brussels and we wouldn’t have to be coming down here on public or any kind of transport. secondly, i was very interested to hear joachim kuhs tell us about his bike being stolen and giving up cycling at the time. for the record, i’ve had four bikes stolen in dublin, so maybe things mightn’t be quite as bad in germany. and also, for the record, i have to say that i’ve never seen clare daly on a bike in my life. if the commission are serious about a bike strategy, it’s a win-win in every way. and you’d like to think that the vested interest won’t be pushing quite as hard against you, but the infrastructure isn’t there. you have got to start spending money to make it really serious. and i’d like to think, as well, that it wouldn’t have quite as much opposition as what we got yesterday in the vote on taxonomy, where the lobbyists hijacked the place and made gas and nuclear green.
mr president, in making the decisions on this particular file i tried to stick as close as possible to the commission proposals. having consulted widely, being truthful with stakeholders, we concluded the original commission proposal was the best option in terms of how we transition the aviation sector to a cleaner, greener future. and there is no doubt, i believe, that if we put the right policies in place that the airline industry will be up for us because it will have to be stimulated, invested in. but i do believe that sustainable aviation fuel will have great downstream benefits as well, not just in the context of the initial aspect, with regard to carbon reduction from airplanes themselves, but also the feed stocks that will be required for sustainable aviation fuels. so, for that reason, that that was a decision that i took. i want to thank the renew europe colleague søren gade as this file’s rapporteur for his work on file. he had a nearly impossible task, being quite truthful. and, while he was excellent in bringing all parts of the parliament together, i just believe that there were so many competing interests in here that the compromises were not suitable for what’s needed to stimulate sustainable aviation fuel investment in airlines.
mr president, before i start, could i correct the record? i don’t actually own a bicycle, but i don’t own a car any more either. i came here by train and i used to work in the aviation sector, but anyway, there we are. in terms of this report before us, it is dealing with fraud, which is a huge problem everywhere across the eu. the report focuses a fair bit on poland and hungary, but i think this is a problem in that it ignores other countries where there are similar problems. i think of bulgaria, the poorest country in the eu, which doesn’t get the attention that it deserves, because the people of bulgaria have been engaged in a heroic struggle to deal with the massive problems of fraud in their country by many successive governments. the eu, rather than helping them to deal with those problems, has actually enabled those in power to carry on corrupting, by turning a blind eye. we know the big headline scandals, of course, but it is a country that i am very close to and have visited many times. i have seen the problems, for example, in the black sea, with a business model where not paying vat in tourist sectors is the norm, ringing up cash at a discount, abusing loyalty cards, withholding tax deducted from owners, rental income used by rental companies which then change their ownership, selling off assets to foreigners through special purchase vehicles, shares being sold at a nominal value, payment by long—term loans which never get repaid. this is the norm. they need the help of the eu, not it turning a blind eye.
the conclusion of this afternoon's interesting exchange of views may be that we went by bicycle from ireland to bulgaria and returned by plane. (addressed to mick wallace) without a microphone, no point of order.
mr president, i think your point was very good, but i would actually make an even better recommendation: i think the two gentlemen should (inaudible) ...
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. many keywords have already been used in the debate: the multifunctionality of forests, their economic, social and ecological functions, and their contribution to combating climate change. commissioner, we have forest week this week, now the forest strategy, then deforestation-free supply chains, and on wednesday we have the renewables, the renewable energy directive. and it is precisely in these three proposals that you notice: there is a need to bring together many things and not to divide them. multi-functionality means not emphasizing one function too much. and it is also important to make it clear that we have a common agricultural policy, but not a common forestry policy. we have a very big diversity of forests, of structures, of ownership, unlike in agriculture. again, you have to have different answers. i think that parliament has found this to be a good thing with mrs müller's report - better than the commission, i think. we can build on that.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your balanced proposal for a strategy on forests, which is a very important strategy, as we have heard. i come from slovenia, which is the third most forested country after finland and sweden, where for centuries, forests have been sustainably managed, with more growth than logging. we have 80% of the forests owned by individuals - farmers. they're the ones who've been doing the right thing by these forests for centuries. it is therefore important to continue to respect the principle of subsidiarity, that forests are managed by the states together with forest owners and to allow for this multifunctional function of forests. we know how important wood is as a building material, but we also know that for many forest owners, biomass is also important. in an age of energy poverty, it will also play an important role in this work. congratulations again on the report and may the forest retain its multifunctional function as it has so far.
mr president, it is great that we are discussing forests this week, because man must live within the limits of nature. however, i do not like the black and white debate about whether forests are used only for economic gain or not at all, because we have also learned to use forests sustainably in forestry measures - to replant, to protect biodiversity and to use the term sustainable forestry. i hope that the positive outlook created by the strategy will also be reflected in the legislative work of the european union, so that we will continue to have forests that we can exploit sustainably and also see their value, above all for biodiversity, because it has been a new approach in this period that must also be used in forestry measures. we are going to go far in europe if we work hard and keep moving forward.
mr president, the eu forest strategy for 2030 is positive in its vision of a new commercial forestry model based on protecting soil, water and biodiversity instead of the blocks of monoculture, cash crops and clear felling that have caused so much harm in the past. but for all that is welcome in the strategy, it would be seriously undermined if we fail to end the crazy and completely unscientific policy of treating biomass as being carbon-neutral in the revision of the renewable energy directive in ireland, more than 40% of all sitka spruce grown is harvested for energy purposes. half of all of ireland’s total forested area is under sitka spruce. therefore, an enormous amount of ireland’s forests are burned as biomass; 42% of all the sitka spruce in ireland is released back into the atmosphere as carbon. we need to stop incentivising the burning of wood for energy by stopping counting it as a renewable and stopping subsidising it.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ulrice müller, for this report, which is in fact a response to the strategy presented by the european commission. we all know that eight years to 2030 is a very short time, but there's still a lot that can be done to support what we're talking about here, which is multifunctional forests. every country has a different approach, but we all share the same goal, which is to make forests healthy, to make forests sustainable, to make forests perform their environmental function, to make forests absorb carbon, to make forests meet those climate change targets, and at the same time, to make forests economically viable, and also to make forests a source of joy and a source of recreation. i think that all of this can be done by forests, if they have protection, if the foresters have our support, and all of this is included in this strategy, and i thank you and look forward to implementing it.
mr president, i, too, welcome the fact that we have a new forest strategy for 2023 although, of course, we all know that it was weakened before publication under pressure from the forest industry and some of our member states. but, nonetheless, it is important in that it does put as much emphasis on our ecosystem services as it does on woods and energy, and that is incredibly important. if we ever needed a wake-up call this summer was it with the droughts and floods that we’ve seen. deforestation is in part a consequence of that. but we have to be careful because forests are increasingly seen as the silver bullet to replace our dependence on fossil fuels and whole trees are being burnt into pellets when they could be used for other purposes. we’ve seen intensive forestry exploitation having a devastating impact on the development of monocultures, with a strong impact subsequently on our ecosystems. and, of course, clear cutting has had a significant erosion which has in turn polluted watercourses. so, a strategy is good, but we need to have it severely implemented if it is to mean a fraction of what it says on paper.
president. - mr president, commissioner, forests are essential for all life on earth. they provide us with oxygen, regulate climate and rain patterns, and house the vast majority of biodiversity. but our forests are under serious threat around the world. the production and overconsumption of meat, dairy and eggs is the main cause of deforestation. because all those farm animals have to be fed. that's why knife and fork are our most powerful weapons against deforestation. meat, soy, maize and all other products that have led to deforestation should no longer be sold in europe. but that's not the end of it. as long as our banks, insurance companies and pension funds continue to invest in the deforestation of the amazon and other vulnerable forests, europe will continue to be guilty of the destruction of our global natural heritage. financial institutions should be covered by this law! i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, deforestation is a very serious problem worldwide. we know that the world's forest area has decreased considerably over the last decade, and the main reason for this has been population growth and the resulting expansion of agricultural production. the eu imports about 10% of the world's deforestation products, and so we can do a lot to combat deforestation here. the eu is a large market with global influence. we have a lot of legislative procedures going on at the eu level now to try to influence the use of forests. and now the most important thing is to ensure that these are consistent and that we avoid overlapping regulations. it is very important that everything we propose is now based on a careful impact assessment. and just as the rapporteur, mr hansen, said here, we must be very critical of the proposal that the financial sector, for example, should now be included in this legislation because it is not part of this forestry legislation. the concern here is that the financial sector might not be able to provide services to the timber industry at all. the commission has also taken the view that the commission should be able to take action in this area.
mr president, as has been said, the fight against deforestation is crucial in the fight against climate change and for the protection of biodiversity. but the fight against deforestation is also the fight for the rights of indigenous peoples and environmentalists. between 2010 and 2020, more than 1,540 murders of its defenders were recorded, mainly in the amazon and indonesia. these indigenous peoples represent 5% of the world's population and live mainly in these forests. their culture is threatened, their survival is threatened, their knowledge of these forests is threatened. states and companies must guarantee the rights of these peoples. access to justice must also be guaranteed and the text provides for this. but i also ask my colleagues to support amendment no 243 which strengthens this, and to reject the amendments on voluntary certification, which are not effective. the studies show this and we are calling for more robust corporate responsibility. if we must support the products of deforestation, we must also support the products of the killing of these people.
mr president, commissioner, we can be proud of the text we are about to vote on on imported deforestation. it's a world first. we are the first in the world to say: 'stop, we are stopping bringing products like coffee, cocoa, palm oil, soya into our market that are derived from deforestation of tropical forests.' and this is a great example of the power of europe when it uses its single market to set the rules of globalisation. we're doing it today against deforestation. we're also doing it with the carbon taxation mechanism on our imports. these are very concrete examples of how europe is taking control of globalisation and setting its own rules of the game. i believe we can be proud because we will also be protecting all those europeans who are, in fact, today unwitting accomplices in deforestation. with this text, they will have the guarantee that they will no longer contribute to the deforestation of the amazon, for example.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. with this regulation we are taking a very important step forward and europe can send a signal that we are really ready to assume our responsibilities. europe is also responsible for illegal deforestation through the import of soy, beef, palm oil. actually, we can't feed our pigs soy anymore, when we know full well that a lot of wood has been illegally cut down for it. i also think it's good that we've added rubber and corn to the list. what i regret is that we have not expanded the scope, because the cerrado, the dry forest, is one of the hotspots where soy is now grown. we need to expand this list, and i also think we need to hold financial institutions accountable. we can't just let them off the hook, and i don't understand why the right wing wants to write this off. the protection of indigenous peoples is very important. 150 people were murdered last year. we also stand for protecting indigenous peoples in their fight for forest conservation. one final sentence: if we fail to stop deforestation, we will lose control of climate change. that is why it is so urgent that we as europeans act and set the tone here.
mr. chairman, please! deforestation remains a major challenge in many regions of the world. according to the food and agriculture organization of the united nations, in the last three decades, the world has lost about 178 million hectares of forest, an area more than 50 times the size of my own region, mazowieża. the commission also found that the union consumption was around 10% of the world deforestation. i hope that the new regulation will have a positive impact on reducing global deforestation and will ensure that the products that the citizens of the union buy, consume and use do not contribute to global deforestation and forest degradation. however, i have some doubts and concerns about the reaction of global markets and the impact of the new burdens on the sme sector. that is why, as rapporteur for the opinion of the internal market committee, i place a strong emphasis on supporting smes, especially in the first phase of the regulation's application. i therefore welcome the provisions on a transitional period for them. but i think that parliament's mandate is going too far.
mr president, i very much support this regulation and i support the opinion of the european parliament. i think it's finally a concrete step that we're taking to say that we're serious about climate protection, about fighting climate change. in short, we are turning words into action, and the european parliament is extending the range of products that will not be able to be marketed because of deforestation, i.e. the destruction of forests. so we add rubber, corn and pork to the soybeans, to the palm oil. it is very important that this proposal be adopted and that we also speed up the discussions in the trilogue and that concrete action finally begins. i think president bolsonaro in brazil will not be happy about this decree, but it makes us even happier.
mr president, with this proposal we europeans are no longer complicit in the destruction of forests, but are unwittingly complicit in our consumption. the proposal for a regulation aims to curb the effect of the consumption of certain products in the union on global deforestation. to this end, the imposition of requirements on these products for their introduction and sale on the european market is an important and necessary measure. extending protection to other ecosystems should be a priority, as should an appropriate definition of 'forest degradation' to better protect our planet's forests. the commission proposal covers six raw materials, which are undoubtedly important, but we need to extend this proposal to other ecosystems and new raw materials as soon as possible. transparency in supply chains, due diligence, is also very important for this, although we must avoid duplication of duties and reduce administrative burdens.
mr president, eu consumption of commodities like beef, soy, palm oil, rubber, maize, timber and coffee fuels deforestation and forest degradation, as well as the destruction of other vital ecosystems like grasslands, wetlands and peatlands. but the text we established with our vote in the environment committee in july is a very good one and has the potential to bring real change. it establishes clear rules for companies to ensure products sold to eu consumers meet strict deforestation—free requirements. it includes human rights protections and extends the scope to several more commodities and products. it extends the scope from only deforestation to also include degradation of forests and other wooded lands. it also includes the financial sector. it reinforces and speeds up the review clause, which will extend the scope further to other vulnerable ecosystems. it is crucial that the envi position is upheld in the plenary vote, and the commissioner’s comments that hundreds of playing fields of forest are destroyed every hour should frighten plenty.
mr president, when we adopted the report on the protection of the world's forests two years ago, which i had the honour of also drawing up, we had no real instruments other than trade clauses to promote our responsible approach to the environment. and i'm very pleased that we're the first in the world to come up with this kind of robust legislation that addresses our internal belief that we need to enforce these measures at our internal level as well, both on the importation of these products and on the exportation of these products. i think that the regulation contains a really robust system of legal guarantees, legal conditions. some of them are definitely positive. i also see a positive extension of the list of products to be covered by the regulation, such as the rubber already mentioned, and i also proposed this to the envi committee. it has a weakness, it's about the incentive conditions for producers at the local level. perhaps they are too strict, perhaps they are a little vague, but overall it is a good proposal, mr president, and i think the council should hear our determination to accept it.
mr president, i have to say, i found it really heartening to see the large numbers of citizens getting in touch with us to support the ban on products associated with deforestation. for me, it gave a very clear example of how our citizens, in some ways, are far ahead of us and far ahead, certainly, of the commission regulation that was released last november, which i do think had quite a few holes in it in terms of the definition of tropical regions and so on, and in terms of some inclusions that we would regulate products in line with national legislation, which in countries like brazil would effectively mean no regulation whatsoever. i think we have to be firm, and i support a lot of the calls of colleagues here tonight that we have to do more – because the eu, as the third—largest importer of these commodities, is responsible. it is the driver behind the industrial exploitation of forests that’s going hand-in-hand with our overconsumption and modern societies. this is modern neocolonialism, and it has to stop now.
your honor, the case of the surveillance of the cell phone of his colleague, nikos androulakis, is very important, as is the attempt to install illegal spyware. that is why the prime minister, kyriakos mitsotakis, immediately removed the objectively and politically responsible, strengthens the parliamentary and judicial control of the national intelligence service, which had also conducted surveillance in the past during the period of the syriza-independent greeks government, and the case is now in the justice and the parliament. i would advise colleagues, such as mrs sophie in 't veld, who drew arbitrary conclusions, to wait a little longer for the results. but today we are here to join our voices so that illegal spyware has no place in europe, commissioner. take legislative action so they can't be bought or rented, and used only for national security reasons. i agree with hannah neumann that we must protect the human rights and freedoms of our citizens to the fullest extent possible.
mr president, the statements by the commission representative and the council representative are a resounding rebuke to the practices of the mitsotakis government and the prime minister personally. but now you must move from proclamations to action. yesterday, the prime minister said that the surveillance of nikos androulakis by the national intelligence service, and not just by the illegal predator, was legal and documented. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. is he a suspect in any crimes? investigative journalist koukakis, who has been investigating banking and financial scandals, is a national danger? the empty seats of the far right, the ultraconservatives and the european people's party show that the practices of the mitsotakis government are so alien to the rule of law and democracy that not even its political friends can defend them.
mr president, we are discussing a very serious matter today. the response of the greek political world, the greek government and the prime minister himself is 'all in the light'. all the institutional procedures were immediately put in place in greece. parliament opened in the summer, the matter was discussed, the committee of inquiry process has begun and the legislative act will be adopted which will add safeguards to the system as a whole. of course, there are questions that must be answered and will be answered. in a democracy, there are no dead ends. greece is a strong and privileged democracy with the guarantee of the greek people, the greek parliament, the greek judiciary and the greek government.
mr president, i too condemn the use of spyware by greece against journalists and opposition. i’m glad we are debating it because, to be honest, we didn’t deal efficiently enough with similar revelations against our catalan mep colleagues. but the truth is that this scandal really is just the tip of an iceberg. the design, sale and use of spying technologies doesn’t happen by accident; it’s a business, a branch not only of israel but also of the european arms industry. we fund it through the eu budget by financing research and development, by producing the products to use them on desperate migrants on our borders and in third countries. we encourage surveillance commerce. as far back as 2011, wikileaks published a trove of brochures of these companies gathered from cyber—arms fairs in european capitals, where security services browsed for weapons of mass surveillance. we can’t say we weren’t warned. we can’t say these are isolated cases. if we’re serious about putting an end to it, we need to kick the arms dealers and lobbyists out of brussels, turn off the tap for their funding and put an end to the cancer of surveillance capitalism.
mr president, like the pegasus spyware manufacturer, the predator manufacturer has deep connections with israel and the israeli military. israel is an apartheid state with an appalling human rights record, but it’s not the only offender in terms of hosting and supporting companies that manufacture this type of software. it might come as a surprise to some people in ireland. ireland also has a very disproportionate, outsized surveillance industry, given its relative size. dublin is among the top five hq cities for surveillance companies in the eu. cyber capabilities proliferate on international arms markets. part of our problem is the increasing role of the arms industry in the international trade, in surveillance technology, and their role in exporting sophisticated surveillance capabilities. the reform of the dual-use regulation last year is not near enough to halt this proliferation. we need an international agreement restricting the production, sale and use of these technologies. otherwise, we are once again just paying lip service to fundamental rights and freedom. we must reject the increased militarisation of the eu, which is at the heart of all this.
mr president, the text is a good one. it further increases the energy-efficiency targets and, most importantly, makes the national energy-efficiency targets legally binding for the first time. it increases the targets for public bodies to reduce their energy consumption and also increases the yearly renovation requirements for public bodies. the new detail in article 11 on data centres is very welcome. it introduces possible sustainability criteria for data centres and a possible assessment by the commission of the feasibility of a transition towards net-zero data centres. in ireland, we have a huge problem with data centres. it’s estimated that by 2030 the demand from data centres could account for up to 36% of ireland’s electricity demand, driven by the government’s disastrous data-centres enterprise strategy. however, any future sustainability criteria for data centres must insist that data centres are powered directly by onsite renewable-energy generation or at least new offsite renewable generation.
mr president, commissioner and colleagues, as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, young people suddenly find themselves socially disconnected from their closest friends, classmates and teammates. they spent excessive hours isolated in their rooms, connected only online. this disruption to their lives and education meant millions of young people have significantly missed out on aspects of learning and education that would have, in normal times, been acquired in the classroom. against an already decade long pattern of deteriorating mental health among europe’s youth, this disruption has compounded the ill effects of mental health, resulting in higher rates of stress, anxiety, depression, eating disorders and isolation. a eurobarometer survey on young people identifies the improvement of mental health and physical health and wellbeing as one of the two most important issues of our european year of youth. i would ask you colleagues to join me in calling for an eu year dedicated to mental health to be established next year in 2023, which will both honour the voices and the lives of our young people and make sure our eu is one of welcome and not of distress.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, due to the climate crisis, the summer of 2022, like the most recent ones, was characterised by increasingly frequent and extreme weather events, with record high temperatures, droughts, forest fires, intense storms and floods. europe has suffered its worst drought in at least 500 years and has seen a record 660,000 hectares destroyed by forest fires, with my country being one of the most tragically affected. the policy choices of recent years do not respond to the climate emergency, and it is not just with more infrastructure or means that we will solve the environmental, social and health problems we face. there's still a lot to do. and so i'm going to focus on the water issue. it's time we treat water as a common good, essential to life, and not as a business. instead of moving water to intensive production, we need to remove obsolete barriers and reverse soil waterlogging. we need capacity to store water in small decentralised reservoirs, greater infiltration fluidity and accelerated reuse. we need to change our agricultural production model, eliminating monocultures and intensive and superintensive production, which are the causes of land desertification and depopulation leading to forest disruption. in short, we need serious political will to combat climate change, not the semantic lamentations that are repeated every year.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the prolonged drought that has struck europe this year has been announced as the worst in the last 500 years. water resources have been scarce in the union with implications for agricultural and hydroelectricity production, navigation and river transport. the successive heat waves have triggered health alarms especially for vulnerable groups, such as the elderly. moreover, in 2022 the fire season in europe started early and the destruction of forest areas caused by fires reached new records, as did carbon emissions. man-made climate change is causing dangerous disturbances in nature, affecting the lives of millions of people. the intensification of extreme weather events and natural disasters is likely to increase in severity, duration and extent, as well as to result in loss of life and substantial material damage. the european environment agency estimates that flooding will triple in frequency during this century, while heat waves, droughts and fires will increase more than tenfold over the same period. it is therefore necessary to direct our efforts in two directions to counteract this trend: the european union must improve its response to emergencies in the future by developing strategies for preventing and managing natural disasters, strengthening the european civil protection mechanism and solidarity between member states. on the other hand, it is essential to keep in mind the roadmap for achieving the objectives set by the green deal: achieving a circular economy and a climate-neutral society by 2050 requires us to overcome several challenges, especially in the field of energy policies, focusing on renewable sources and the use of carbon-neutral resources. this result must be a firm commitment to the well-being of present and future generations and to the protection of all life on our planet.
mr president, i would like to join in the public recognition of the firefighters, the public forces and the people who have helped us all this summer to mitigate the effects of the fires, to put these fires out. ladies and gentlemen, since february, in the committee on agriculture and rural development, i have been calling for a real debate on drought. we are now in a period when it is affecting the whole of europe, not just southern europe, not just spain, the mediterranean countries, but unfortunately all of europe. in a report drawn up by the commission, it says that 47% of the territory is on drought alert and 17% on alert notice. so we have almost two thirds of the country in a sorry state of drought, which is also the cause of the fires, but, commissioner, we have regulatory action in the european green pact, but we need direct action now, immediately, to deal with the fires next summer. i would ask all the groups to join forces in a joint resolution, with a broad-minded, non-partisan approach, and that together we can resolve the situation. and, ladies and gentlemen, farmers are not the enemy, they have to work with us to solve these situations.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013). i don't understand the green group. now we talk about climate change and its consequences, but we also have to solve the climate issue. this week we are voting on the renewable energy directive. however, the green group consistently votes for reducing the availability of bioenergy and residual products from forestry, making it more difficult for hydropower, making it almost impossible to open mines and making it much more difficult to obtain environmental permits. what energy sources will you have left? and how are we supposed to solve the origin problem?
mr president, commissioner, we have entered an era of unpredictability, of global disorder and major upheavals at union level. energy poverty, food insecurity, loss of biodiversity, geopolitical risks, pandemics, demographic disruption and natural disasters are all factors that make the future uncertain. and what we know for sure is that whatever climate trajectory we take, the climate will continue to change with the multiplication of natural disasters and consequences in all sectors, for all regions of europe. but it is not too late to prevent and mitigate the consequences. adapting europe's regions to global warming must become a priority, also in europe. and that is why i say to the commission: listen to the very concrete proposals of the regi committee, we are ready to work with you on this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are experiencing the effects of climate change in a terrible way in the european union this summer. that is why we must act to combat climate change, and i would be very grateful if we could achieve something concrete in implementing 'fit for 55' before the next cop, as a signal to the international community, because only internationally will we really achieve something. but we must also give practical help on the ground. i would like to mention the resceu programme in particular. my own country, germany, has always been very hesitant about whether we really need this. germany had the impression that this was not a matter for us, that it was a national matter. now there's been a huge forest fire in the harz in germany, and planes from italy have come to help, supported by the european commission resceu. i think that the critical germany should say: "thank you, italy. thank you, european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think we have all seen firsthand this summer the consequences of climate change in the form of drought, forest fires, heat waves and reduced agricultural yields. this must lead us to act differently tomorrow. in europe, we are already doing a lot, through the green deal, to reduce our co2 emissions, but we are not doing enough to make ourselves more resilient, to make our continent resilient to climate shocks. and that is why i expect the president of the commission, in her speech in the next few hours, to launch a major initiative to organise resilience tests of the major european infrastructures: rivers, power stations, ports, which are not adapted to climate shocks and are not resilient. these are major european issues. these are challenges to our economy, to our competitiveness, to our way of life. let's stop blindly seeing the consequences of this climate shock that is going to happen anyway and let's really prepare now to face the future.
mr president, colleagues, 2022 is fast becoming the year of the unthinkable. an all-out russian invasion in europe. one third of an entire country, pakistan, underwater. temperatures reaching 30 degrees in carlow. all of these events linked in some way with our insatiable appetite for fossil fuels. but other unthinkable achievements bring hope. we defeated one of the worst pandemics in history. we have built renewable electricity levels to previously unimaginable levels: 40% in ireland. we have come out battered by over two years separated from our loved ones. now we are facing, too, a cold winter. but we have shown that when we act in solidarity as a union, we can make the unthinkable reality. a full climate transition may seem a distant challenge now, but if we are to defeat flood, drought and war, it is the only future imaginable.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the development of renewable energy is a major challenge for the environment and climate, for lowering the price of energy, but above all for our security. we need to replace fossil fuels from russia with something, so the 45% target is absolutely justified. but it's important to remove all the barriers to renewable energy development. that's how it is in my country. the law of distance is unacceptable for wind power. the authorisation of res needs to be improved and, very importantly, the potential of biomethane needs to be unlocked. i also thank the rapporteur for including my amendment to allow the heat generated from green electricity to be counted towards the target of renewable energy in the district heating sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the contribution of renewable energy is now fundamental not only from the climate point of view but above all from the point of view of our energy security. increasing the share of renewables to 45% by 2030 is therefore a goal that cannot be left on paper, as has happened too often in the past because of red tape. we therefore hope that the directive on authorization procedures will now be adopted with urgency, so as to simplify and reduce the time needed to build renewable energy plants. moreover, such an ambitious target can only be achieved if we know how to exploit all the available energies, from geothermal to wind, from photovoltaic to hydroelectric, as well as bioenergy, also thanks to the role of energy and rural communities. this requires striking the right balance between environmental sustainability on the one hand and the availability of renewable energy at competitive prices on the other. it is precisely through this balance that we will be able to drive our transition, eliminate fossil fuels from our economy and achieve a true... (the president withdraws from the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. we want to achieve climate neutrality in the european union by 2050. but climate protection is only about security of supply, energy efficiency and affordability. and that is why i think it is wrong, with a view to developing renewable energy, to make the use of hydropower and forest biomass unprofitable by imposing strict limits. on the contrary, wood energy must continue to be recognised as a renewable source of energy, so i do not share what mr tiemo wölken said. sustainable forest management is essential for the much-needed reforestation and our goal of climate neutrality. we need strong forests that can reach their full potential as carbon sinks. the same is true of hydropower. hydropower is a renewable energy source that is always available, flexibly regulated and stabilizes the grid. we must do everything we can to strengthen hydropower and not put an end to the small hydropower in europe by imposing strict limits.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the problem of high energy prices in the eu cannot be overestimated. many businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and many consumers are facing the greatest challenge. at the same time, we are still funding russia's war in ukraine, and we have to stop that. and this summer has shown us how bad the climate crisis is and that we need to fight climate change. so we need solutions that address all three of these problems together: that's energy conservation, that's energy efficiency, but that's also renewable energy. i therefore ask everyone to support the report by mr markus pieper and the amendments tabled by the epp. so the question is, what else can we do? we need money for the necessary change. we must ensure that prices do not go through the roof in the short term. the commission has proposed repowereu to this end. we should also adopt these proposals very quickly.
mr president, renewable energy, yes, but with people in mind. in the world of renewables, not everything is as beautiful as some people want to paint. they seem to forget one fundamental point: their integration into the territory, the concentration of production in a territory, as in the case of the territory of galicia by land and sea, could have very negative environmental consequences. for other productive activities too, not everything is valid. the territory bears what it bears. energy lobbies have allies very willing to create green discourses, responsible for building and measuring some of the institutional narrative. if some had made the same political effort, moving towards new energy formulas, such as decentralization, such as the energy sovereignty of belgian society, where a real revolution in energy efficiency has been betting on, it would be much better. we in galicia are denouncing the european commission for not participating in the wind projects.
mr president, forest biomass should not be part of the renewable energy directive. in 2019 when i was a member of the irish parliament, the then forestry minister told me that irish forestry was occupied by 51% sitka spruce and he actually boasted that 42% of this was used to harvest for energy. so, in other words, in ireland we burn a quarter of our forests. and he went on to say that this was an important contribution to ireland’s renewable energy targets. this is the kind of insanity that the renewable energy directive encourages, unfortunately. forests are not renewable. forests are ecosystems. you cannot replant a forest. you can replant trees. it just takes minutes to burn forest biomass. but it takes decades and centuries for tree plantations to sequester the carbon again. we don’t have time for this, it’s an insanity and this is an emergency, but some people don’t seem to be copping on to it just yet.
madam president, vice-president borrell, this debate has shown that for many decades taiwan has been present on the european union's external agenda in a delicate and fragile balance with the doctrine we call the 'one china policy'. that is the status quo that has been alluded to so many times in so many interventions and that has been unilaterally broken by cyberattacks and military maneuvers and airspace occupation of the china sea, deployed by no less than a first-generation nuclear power such as china - and as, incidentally, is also russia, the subject of the previous discussion in the aggression against ukraine. so everything you have heard, vice-president borrell, in this debate is helping the european union to use its best diplomatic capacity to preserve international law and contribute to the military de-escalation, which is what it is about. so that on the one hand the european union can assert its autonomy without any follow-on to the policy of the united states, but at the same time be able to contribute effectively to the affirmation of a scenario of peace threatened at the moment by the military movements of the people's republic of china, which is seeking an object of friction with taiwan, which maintains a diplomatic relationship with the european union.
madam president, it’s hard to believe we’re heading down this crazy path with china. the invasion of ukraine by russia was 100% illegal. sadly, it was precipitated by us meddling and nato expansion into the region. nato boss stoltenberg has even boasted about strong nato involvement in ukraine since 2014. the russian stated their red lines with regard to ukraine, but they were ignored. the same thing is happening with taiwan. the us is repeatedly violating the red lines articulated by china. us special forces have been deployed to the island. the us have conducted naval military exercises and military build—up in the region and engaged in provocative diplomatic visits along with billions of dollars of weaponry sales annually. we already have a war where the main losers are ukraine and western europe. the us is attempting to open up another battlefront with china, pushing china closer to russia. if the situation escalates any further, the eu will suffer even more than it is suffering at the moment. climate system breakdown shows us that never before has international cooperation been so important. and yet nato and the us are driving us in the opposite direction.
madam president, i really feel that the european union has to cop itself on if we don’t want to get caught up in the us efforts to destabilise the taiwan strait in the manner in which they have done with ukraine at such enormous cost to the citizens of europe, be they ukrainian, russian or indeed citizens of the eu itself. if we’re worried about cross-strait tensions, we shouldn’t be doing anything to make them worse. for decades, the one-china policy has guaranteed stability and peace in the taiwan strait. it doesn’t give anybody everything that they want, but it gives everybody enough to avoid the possibility of war. and yet we see this ambiguity being dismantled by ignorant fanatics in the us administration and congress, and a foolish appetite by some in the eu for a confrontation with china. with, of course, china predictably responding, we risk a runaway escalation. the tough guy act can be emotionally satisfying for some, but it’s reckless, stupid, immature foreign policy. if we care about the people of taiwan, we should not be dismantling the arrangements that have protected them for decades. do we really want another war? do our citizens? of course the arms industry and the us do.
madam president, for too long europe has been weak on energy policy. now, with war having returned to europe, we find ourselves exposed. putin is trying to use energy as a weapon against europe and our support indeed for ukraine. we cannot let him win. increases in energy prices are putting the viability of many small businesses at risk, increasing the potential for job losses and business failures, and, of course, decreasing opportunities for our young people. a difficult winter of uncertainty is ahead. we need a package of measures. we need to reduce taxes on fuel. we need to diversify our energy sources and move more quickly to renewables. and we need to tax the super-profits of energy companies benefiting from high prices. our citizens should not be left out in the cold or in the dark this winter. we have to take action. it is time for the commission, for parliament and the member states to take that action immediately. our communities and our citizens need it.
madam president, commissioner, we need a common european response against the rise in energy prices in the european union. we need effective measures, but also faster implementation. it may be easy to talk about this here, but it is very complicated to talk to a pensioner when he pays his bills and has a small pension. it's very complicated to talk to a young person who lives on minimum wage and gives half of his income to pay bills, or an entrepreneur who wants to succeed and can't do it because of energy prices. we need active measures. on the one hand, it is clear that we need to regulate. we can no longer leave things to chance and to a liberalisation that is not working at the moment. we need to tax, to tax those who have made enormous profits on the backs of european citizens and the traders who have taken advantage of this context. we need to support those who invest in this production area and the states that have capacities in this energy area - and romania, for example, my state has. and also to deploy repowereu faster, much faster than we are doing now.
madam president, why has it taken the eu so long to intervene in the markets? the energy market started spiking almost a year ago. the energy prices haven’t come from nowhere. for many europeans, the struggle to pay their energy bills is not a new phenomenon. one in four european households already struggled to adequately heat, cool or light their homes before what is now called a crisis. market fundamentalism has caused this problem, but has also denied the possibility of any kind of a rapid response. if the eu and its member states are serious about tackling the crisis and reducing consumption, they need to guarantee energy—efficient housing, public services, higher wages and adequate public transport for all. we should end the self—defeating sanctions that are not helping matters. they are hurting the ordinary people of europe a lot more than they’re ever going to hurt putin, and they are not going to stop the war!
madam president, commissioner simson, more renewables and energy efficiency is the way to go, and i fully agree with you. however, in the meanwhile we are facing a state of emergency and, as esther de lange has already underlined, we have to fight this war by all means. people are suffering. industry is asking for immediate relief. and i would like to table two very brief questions. the first one is when the commission will be ready with an impact assessment on a scenario to put a cap price for all gas imported in the eu and a replacing of the etf. and the second question is what kind of additional further measures could the member states adopt this winter – this hard winter – provided that there are member states like my home country, greece, which has already adopted a lot of the measures that the commission includes in this basket.
mr president, commissioner, many european countries were far too dependent on russian energy, and we now see that it is not easy to replace them. at present, the demand for energy is much higher than the supply in the eu, and that is what this crisis is about. the most important thing now is to be able to reduce consumption, just as the member states have already committed themselves to do with gas. in electricity too, we must be able to reduce peak consumption and reduce overall electricity demand in order to better match capacity. at the same time, investment in all of the eu's own low-emission energy sources must be encouraged. the idea put forward by many of my colleagues here, that the sustainability criteria for forestry or hydropower are now being tightened up and questioned, and that there is now a debate on the production ceilings for different forms of energy, is not very appropriate at this time. this is not very inspiring and encouraging to investors. it is now that we should be getting these investments moving. the essential thing for the electricity market is to be able to separate the gas from the rest of the electricity price, because that is the problem. and germany should keep that third nuclear power plant running.
madam president, let’s face it, we can’t say we weren’t warned: fossil fuel consumption is unsustainable. of course, we should have been a long way down the road by now, moving to environmentally friendly, renewable, public—owned energy. we could have built, we could have invested, we could have been ready for the inevitable crisis, but we kicked the can down the road, allowing greenwashing by big business. now, having shot ourselves in both feet with backfiring sanctions that have allowed russia to sit on a record current account surplus while turning off the gas to europe, and forcing old people and poor people to go cold this winter because of the action of european powers, we have absolute lunacy as big energy rubs its hands with glee, us lng operators laugh and reap their dividends and europe goes back to burning more fossil fuel. it’s about time the commission and the council started to cop on. the ordinary citizens of europe paying through their cost of living or environmental damage is not the way forward. we need publicly owned energy.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, effective access to asylum is a right, regardless of your country of origin or colour of your skin. it is not only a responsibility of a moral duty: this is who we are as europeans, these are our values. putin’s war of aggression has unleashed an unprecedented humanitarian and migratory crisis. activating the temporary protection directive gave more than 4 million ukrainians effective protection and prevented our asylum systems from becoming overwhelmed, allowing others from across the globe to have their applications assessed. but while we protected the continued effectiveness of the asylum system, our reception systems have come under strain. i commend member states and european citizens: they have shown a remarkable welcome. we recognise them through our safe homes initiative. six months since the start of this war of aggression, we need to expand our efforts, secure sufficient reception for the winter, offer schooling to children and help mothers to get jobs. and those going back home to ukraine need to be safe in the knowledge that europe will keep its doors open if necessary. let me also be very clear, protecting the eu external border is a responsibility and a duty for all member states. our schengen system relies on it. but fighting smuggling, protecting borders and safeguarding fundamental rights and access to asylum are not in contradiction with one another. they go hand-in-hand and have to go hand-in-hand. upholding the right to apply for asylum is also linked to the return of those who do not have the right to stay. this must also be carried out with efficiency and with dignity. so it’s good that last week we had the first ever meeting of the high-level network on returns led by our new return coordinator, mari juritsch, who has started her important work with a lot of energy and knowledge. i would thank you all for this important debate. but let me also conclude by saying debating is important; agreeing on the pact on migration and asylum for a true and sustainable european migration policy is even more important.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, let me thank you for this debate. these discussions contribute greatly to finding appropriate responses to the current challenges. there is no doubt that the situation at our external borders must be addressed in an effective and timely manner, in accordance with european and international law, including obligations related to access to international protection and the principle of non—refoulement, which is a cornerstone of international refugee law and international human rights law. it is equally important that the treatment of migrants within the eu is in line with the current obligations of the eu asylum acquis. as i have already stressed, we are confident that our member states respect the european international laws to which they are subject and that they will carry out the necessary investigations in this area when needed. thank you very much once again for your attention.
that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. at multiple entry points at the eu's land and sea borders, there are still incidents of violence and ill-treatment of asylum seekers, with many casualties. people fleeing wars and persecution have few options, and for them walls, fences and propaganda naval blockades are not a significant deterrent. we cannot accept that fundamental rights, including the right to asylum, are constantly being violated at the european borders. the protection of life, human rights and dignity must remain a shared priority. a strong european commitment is needed to ensure independent mechanisms for monitoring and investigating such violations, to manage borders and address security issues while implementing fair, humane and efficient policies. for member states under disproportionate pressure, relocations should be the main form of solidarity and responsibility-sharing. this issue should be a priority in the reform of eu migration and asylum rules, which is expected to be completed in line with the roadmap agreed by parliament and the council.
the next item is the debate on the report by christian ehler and marcos ros sempere, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on culture and education, on the new european bauhaus (2021/2255(ini)) (a9-0213/2022).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the green deal is the european union's most far-reaching and fundamental transformation of our way of life and society since the european union began. currently overshadowed by the terrible war in ukraine and the resulting crisis in european markets, the green deal offers the opportunity to both achieve necessary climate targets and improve the lives of europeans. the new european bauhaus, proposed by the commission president as a movement and initiative that goes beyond the green deal, has a key role to play in this. the need for regulations and guidelines reinforces the feeling of a dystopian world with ever-changing conditions. the new european bauhaus, on the other hand, by combining science, business, culture and creativity, is creating a utopia, a positive, real perspective for the people of europe, for the whole and in particular for the green deal. and it shows that transformations of existing life forms and environments can have something positive for citizens. i call on the member states to take up this positive bauhaus idea even more and i invite all citizens to participate. with this own-initiative report, we as a parliament are proactively participating in the bauhaus movement by presenting our vision of the future of the new european bauhaus. the report contains a wide range of demands, for example to make the bauhaus criteria concrete and to fund projects that are in line with the basic ideas of sustainability, aesthetics and inclusion. i would like to thank the commissioner very specifically for having laid the foundations for the bauhaus with the major programme in the framework programme for research in the creative industries. the bauhaus is a bit of a vast superstructure, so to speak, but the broad basis, the funding for the creative industries, is provided by the research framework programme and the commissioner's initiative. but a profitable concretisation would be important for the bauhaus, for example. we are calling for a mission within the research framework programme in horizon europe, but we are also calling on all the other parts of the commission to contribute. and this is not just a question of funding. we need a budget, but we also need an integrative share of the member states, which means that the structural funds must be used for this. this means that the commission and the member states are much more involved in other funds, such as the structural funds, in the european bauhaus. we want to concentrate, we want to give this an institutional framework. in addition, we should consider creating a 'new european bauhaus' label for projects and buildings. such a label should also be attractive to the private sector; one can imagine a franchise system. because if the private sector adopts the criteria of the european bauhaus, we have, of course, a much greater leverage than if it is done through public funds alone. it is now up to the commission to take up our demands and to create the right conditions for an active change in our lives towards a positive future through the new european bauhaus. parliament will continue to participate in this debate, and we want to make our contribution. but i 'll say it again , very specifically: it's not about institutions praising the bauhaus and then shifting the responsibility to the other institution. this is an elementary element of the green deal. we must give people utopias instead of dystopias. if we succeed in doing that, we have achieved something together, so to speak, which is basically the initial spark for the green deal beyond the technicality of what parliaments, what the commission, what member states can create as framework conditions. i would like to express my special thanks to my co-rapporteur, mr ros sempere, and to all the staff who have been very active in helping us to prepare this report. it was an exemplary collaboration between two committees which normally have nothing to do with each other at first, but it was an excellent collaboration between the itre and cult committees.
the new european bauhaus has created a great wave of enthusiasm: two years after president von der leyen planted the seed here, the project has sprouted throughout europe, a cultural and social movement to transform our countries. just as it happened with the original bauhaus, the new bauhaus comes to improve people's lives, to put culture, architecture, design and urbanism at the service of citizens. an initiative with three pillars: sustainability, beauty and social commitment. buildings are responsible for 40 percent of our energy consumption. that is why the european union's efforts in recent years have been focused on renovating them so that they are less polluting, but i ask you a question: can we also use these same funds, perhaps a little more, to improve the quality of life of citizens, adapting our houses, our neighbourhoods, our cities, to the needs? and i go even further: from a democratic point of view, is it ethical to invest large amounts of public money just to improve the energy efficiency of our buildings and cities without also improving the conditions of the people who live in them? we need a paradigm shift, and the new european bauhaus is this paradigm shift: an initiative that invites us to think about how we inhabit our built spaces and that comes at a key moment for the european union, the european green pact legislature, the recovery funds and the wave of building renovation. how can we grow that seed of the new european bauhaus? the way forward is to promote projects that are beautiful, sustainable and inclusive: we must involve the whole of europe, without forgetting the cultural sectors that are so essential to this project and to imagine new ways of life; we must opt for initiatives of high quality and beauty that are adapted to the needs of citizens, new spaces for new lifestyles. the new european bauhaus must lead the rehabilitation of our housing stock, including the promotion of sustainable materials, renewable energy and nature-based solutions. let us seize the golden opportunity that we have with the energy efficiency of buildings directive and the wave of building renovation, and all this without forgetting the most important dimension of the new bauhaus, social inclusion: we have to fight energy poverty, protect vulnerable households and achieve buildings that consume less and are accessible and affordable. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs, my co-rapporteur, the members and officials who have worked on this comprehensive and demanding report, because parliament demands from the european commission clear criteria for the selection, funding and choice of projects: only then can a european new bauhaus label be established to help projects gain visibility and funding. in order for the seed of the new bauhaus to grow into a strong tree, we need a programme of our own with stable funding: we need to move from an exciting project, which it is, to a programme of our own and stable; we need a specific horizon europe mission with 500 million euros, a programme of our own for the new bauhaus in the next financial framework, with a stable budget and sufficient funds, and we need to involve the member states in the funding of projects and initiatives. with these objectives and a programme with a stable budget, the seed that has been sown throughout europe will grow, and we will make the lives of thousands of citizens, of thousands of families, better by renovating their homes and, moreover, we will live in a europe with less energy consumption and less pollution: let us grow this seed.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional development. the commission is not let us remember: parliament was born into the new european bauhaus project like a virgin. but if the commission is calling for cultural movements, it must also answer the following question: why do we treat the promotion of functional, sustainable and inclusive housing and lifestyles as a piece of jewellery in our policy priorities? parliament reacted with courage, in the words of walter gropius: 'the mind is like a parachute: it can only function if it is open.' now we have a substantive report. we call for the financing to be unclear from 2023 onwards and for a long-term independent budget in the multiannual financial plan from 2027 onwards. from the perspective of the committee of the regions, we strengthened public space, affordable housing, the community-led reuse and repair of our built heritage and the voice of local authorities. we have taken the democratic ideas and aesthetic solutions of the historical bauhaus very seriously. i ask everyone to vote in favour of this report.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i will of course begin by thanking you. first of all, i would like to thank the two co-rapporteurs, christian ehler and marcos ros sempere. i also thank the rapporteurs for their opinions and the three committees, namely the budg, empl and regi committees. thank you so much for your hard work. thank you very much for your support of the initiative. thank you very much for the wealth of ideas you share through this report, so that this initiative turns from your wishes into something real that our citizens, above all, will feel. from the formulation of this concept to its implementation, i would like to express my gratitude because the european parliament plays a decisive role for the bauhaus. it is thanks to you that the initiative has reached its present size. we worked together, and i thank you for that. i have had fruitful and continuous exchanges, in particular with the itre and cult committees. now, these exchanges are important because they allow us to guide this initiative, to guide it from the beginning in an open and democratic way. they contribute usefully to the implementation phase with concrete ideas, at a time of great growth for the vibrant and growing community of the new european bauhaus. i have noted the points made in this report. let me summarize four elements. first, the report expresses legitimate concerns about the future funding of the initiative. the commission recognises the need to ensure a stable and dedicated source of funding, with a visible instrument for the new european bauhaus in the medium and long term, in order to support the continued development of the initiative. the commission has taken note of the practical suggestions made by parliament in its report. intensive efforts are under way to establish a viable framework as soon as possible. we are working hard to ensure that horizon europe is more actively involved in supporting the new european bauhaus. the work programme for 2023-2024 contains even more actions than the one for 2021-2022. there will be calls for proposals for the new european bauhaus, totalling over €100 million. the budget for the new european bauhaus has therefore more than doubled since the start of the initiative, from €44 million to €106 million. as part of the cohesion policy, and this is an important element, we are actively working with the member states to promote the project of the new european bauhaus at national and regional level. most of the 2021-2027 partnership agreements now have references in support of the initiative. secondly, in your report you support the creation of a label for the 'new european bauhaus'. you stress the need to develop specific criteria for the sectors concerned and to clarify the general criteria for the selection and evaluation of neb projects and initiatives. in this context, i would like to highlight the 'neb compass', the compass of the new european bauhaus, which will be presented in the coming weeks. this compass will be the basis for evaluating bauhaus projects; the values of the european bauhaus - sustainability, aesthetics for quality, experience and inclusion - will be defined. the list of features will be supplemented by practical examples, guiding principles and assessment tools. this will, i hope, enable us to establish a tangible, genuinely participatory, transdisciplinary guidance framework for decision-makers wishing to apply the philosophy of the new european bauhaus in their territory. as i said, the tool is being finalised and we will of course discuss it with you when the time comes. thirdly, the commission also shares parliament's view on the need to strengthen the participation of the cultural and creative sectors, and on the importance of protecting europe's rich cultural heritage, in particular against the effects of climate change. the commission agrees in this respect that a clear plan is needed to attract ethical public and private investment, including crowdfunding. fourthly, the development of the community of the new european bauhaus. on this point, the commission agrees with parliament's call to extend the scope of the neb beyond the borders of the european union. thanks to the call for friends, partners, the neb community already has members from the united states to ukraine and turkey. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that the geographical scope of the 2023 edition of the european bauhaus awards will be extended to cover the western balkans as well. this community of talent and enthusiasm is also an extraordinary asset. to increase the reach of the initiative in the countries of the european union, the commission has established a network of national contact points in all member states. these national contact points meet regularly and coordinate the efforts to implement the initiative at national and regional level. and finally, this is probably the point of our initiative, the report stresses that it must involve citizens actively. this involves working together with local and regional governments, associations of local resident communities, in a participatory and multi-level approach. the commission fully supports this approach and, since the creation of the new european bauhaus, many calls and activities have already actively contributed to promoting participation and connecting all stakeholders. what are some examples? the 2022 edition of the bauhaus awards or the neb community implemented by the european institute of innovation and technology. finally, we continue to look to the future. among the upcoming activities that will strengthen the ties between our community, i would like to highlight one in particular, the launch of a new innovation and knowledge community for the cultural and creative sectors and industries, which took place last june. it also has the power to create genuine synergy with other programmes, other eu initiatives in this field, notably the creative europe programme and the new european bauhaus. so, in conclusion, i would say that the bauhaus has, in record time, become an iconic action, a signature of the european union. this is also true in the context of the reconstruction of ukraine, where the philosophy of the new european bauhaus is already finding application through three pilot projects. i'd like to thank you again for your work. thank you for your support and of course, today i am still open to your suggestions and comments.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. mr president, i would like to thank everyone for their cooperation and especially the rapporteurs for their extremely constructive approach and the openness with which we have dealt with this dossier. it is about sustainability, energy-neutral housing but also housing in a sufficiently green environment. it is about beauty, not just because of its low cost but also because it must be future-proof for the eye. and then there is the social dimension, which is that young and old can live in a decent home, preferably one that is life-saving. we as the european union can follow in the footsteps of walter gropius and he will be proud of it if it is realised. a healthy environment and a healthy lifestyle can ensure that people can live longer, can be more involved in society, and that is actually what one of the values of europe means. this project can contribute to a new emotion, a new identity of the european union. this is an example of which we europeans can be proud.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your support. tomorrow we are voting on the report on the new european bauhaus on which we have been working for the last year, a concept which was not clear to many when it was proposed at the beginning of this commission's work. since then, this concept has been given shape through the joint work of all those who want europe to be, above all, a future place of comfort for all our citizens, wherever they live, from the remotest islands and villages to cities and urban areas, so that the construction of the europe of the future is safe and stylishly adapted to our rich historical and cultural heritage in line with the needs of the modern way of life, and above all a healthy and beautiful environment for our youngest and oldest members of society, who have been most exposed to this pandemic, earthquakes, floods and fires. the main message of the new european bauhaus, which we will be voting on tomorrow, and on which i had the honour of working on behalf of the epp group, is precisely that the future architecture of happiness will not be the privilege of the developed and the rich, but a refuge for the weakest. i congratulate my fellow rapporteurs on their excellent work and call on the european commission and the member states to create, in line with this report, sustainable tools for implementing the vision of a europe fit for every person.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the bauhaus was founded to give a cultural, artistic and sustainable impetus to our cities, our homes and our way of life. but there's more to it than that. i think that today, in the energy crisis that we are experiencing, which has not been so severe for decades, the new bauhaus can also be a useful tool in our toolbox to deal with this crisis. we have spoken about this at length in this house today. and so i think we really need to change the paradigm of how we build houses and buildings, how we make them more energy efficient but also accessible and socially inclusive. i say beautiful, even in the crisis phase and the construction of a new model, more sustainable and energy-saving. and by encouraging the use of energy-efficient materials and solutions, including through cooperative production models, like energy communities, that, i think, is also a movement that includes efficiency and sociality. the fight against energy poverty is a precondition, we have always said, to achieve a just and equitable energy transition, but i say, let's make it beautiful, also the fight against energy poverty, let's give answers of quality and artistic value. so that the bauhaus is the push we needed to combine all these elements, beauty and sustainability, even and especially in the crisis.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, the new european bauhaus transposes the philosophy of the green pact into our daily lives, making the environment close to its principles. i am convinced that the european parliament will support the report on the new european bauhaus because it contains a lot of energy from everything that was proposed by all the co-rapporteurs during the debate on the report. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the way they conducted the discussion and the high level of political professionalism in finishing the report. the new european bauhaus can facilitate the wide application of the renovation wave throughout the spatial design, planning and renewal of the existing building stock, to extend the life cycle of buildings, improve their energy performance, ensure the safety and durability of architectural assets, apply modern technologies in construction and building management. we must not forget the industrial heritage, the cultural heritage of europe as a whole, which can become part of the environment of the modern, modern, green pact-oriented european life.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we rarely discuss beauty and design within these walls, but the new european bauhaus brings these values and the heart into the european green deal. it can give communities a real say in their common future. it helps us design the new and support the past as we renovate and regenerate our homes and neighbourhoods. it helps us design the circular economy in public spaces, in buildings and in the everyday objects that we use in our daily lives. so, we now need a greater reach into all kinds of regions across europe and beyond; a clearer funding stream with fresh resources; a focus on inclusivity and accessibility for marginalised communities; and, crucially, an explicit role in tackling energy poverty and delivering a just transition for all.
madam president, europe today is facing crisis with war once again on our continent. but europe has increasingly responded well to crisis, and our determination to do so again is unwavering. people and governments are looking to the eu, now more than ever, to see how we can tackle those global problems. we know what they are: energy prices, climate change, cost of living, inflation, job creation. announcements are important, but now the eu must act decisively. thank you, president, for your leadership. but we now need a commitment from all our member states to implement all of these issues without delay. use the funding, as the president has said, that is there. i welcome the supports that have been announced for families and smes. smes are at the heart of our economies. we know they are the job creators in our member states. only by working together, eu and member states, can we ensure that the worst impacts of putin’s winter can be avoided. this should not be about a battle of competencies, but a commitment to deliver. our citizens are waiting.
madam president, i very much welcome a new mental health initiative through a citizens’ panel. this is an incredibly important and positive step forward following our future of europe conference, following the impact of covid, the stresses of isolation and the war that we are all living through. we must, through an eu year of education and training and a citizens’ panel dedicated to mental health, really look at and finally understand the root causes of mental health and how it is impacting all facets of a person’s life, especially our young people. you mentioned smes. we know from research that an employee is over 30 days more productive if an employer looks at their wellbeing and the mentality that they have, that is sustainability. let’s together deliver a citizens’ panel and prepare for a 2024 eu year dedicated to mental health.
mr president, membership of the european union is based on shared commitment to common values as outlined in the treaties. it’s about principles. it’s about deep values that we should cherish, democracy, equality, individual rights and freedoms, respect for the rule of law and free, independent media and judicial independence. let us be very clear, orbán and his party are not supporting and underpinning those very principles. they’re doing everything to undermine us: gay rights, individual freedoms, corruption, many aspects of what is happening in hungary is because of viktor orbán and his political philosophy, which fundamentally attacks everything that this chamber stands for and the european values that underpin it. and if you are in any doubt, if you are in any doubt, show me your friends and i’ll tell you who you are. at this moment, viktor orbán is backing putin against the ukrainian people. it’s a shameful act and it is indicative of all that stands for in terms of viktor orbán and fidesz. you should be ashamed of yourselves. he should be campaigning to get rid of them and stand with european values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am sorry to have to begin this speech in this way, but the situation of fundamental rights in the union remains at risk from year to year and successive reports on the subject show this. recently, in addition to the risks that already exist, the covid-19 pandemic and the crackdown on migrants across the european union have increased this concern. that is why the initial report, written by a colleague from the id group, besides the provocative content, reflected a totally caricatured worldview: against abortion, against migrants, against the media, against ngos, defending the hungarian and polish governments in matters of the rule of law without any nuance. this rosary of excesses was clearly not up to par. in the light of this true or false initial report, i would like to warn the members of the epp group in this house: this is the same caricature that will be your image if in italy or sweden, or elsewhere, you agree to make alliances with the far right; you will be co-responsible for violations of fundamental rights, especially of the most vulnerable. on the contrary, i am convinced that we must continue to defend a vision of the world that is just and progressive, representative of the union with its difficulties and its solutions. and that is why i welcome the political groups, including my own, who have managed to work together and get a report on the situation of fundamental rights in the union adopted by the libe committee, based on facts and not on false information. i hope we will find the same majority in the plenary.
mr president, i have to say, i think this is an incredibly strong report, but i want to particularly deal with the section on migration. since russia’s invasion of ukraine, more than 5 700 civilians have lost their lives. we rightly condemn in the strongest possible terms, even as we do nothing to stop this war. but there’s another war in europe, even though we don’t call it that. but it is a continuous and bloody war against migrants going on for nearly a decade. and the casualty rate easily matches anything that is happening in ukraine. almost 25 000 people have died or gone missing at sea in europe over the past eight years. in the last year alone, 3 500 people have died at our borders. countless more have been pushed back, beaten, raped and tortured on eu borders. more than 34 000 people were pulled back into detention, horror and death in libya, and the eu funded the libyan coast guard. so, if we oppose war, we should end europe’s war on migrants because if putin is a monster, then what the hell are we?
mr president, human rights have been at the core of our union from the very beginning. yet lately we see a rise in authoritarianism where the flouting of human rights is widespread and our fundamental values and ideals have been neglected and ignored far too often. right now it is about autocracy versus democracy. choose where you stand because european values are in peril. the full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental values within eu member states can never be in question. the spirit of compromise is indeed integral in politics. but the eu cannot ever compromise on its values. they are core. there cannot be a halfway house for some member states. yet all member states do have to do far more for the full enjoyment of rights by all citizens. we've already heard today, for example, about the disability issues. we must be setting the standards because we are supposed to be and, indeed, historically have been leaders in the field of human rights. we cannot stand on the global moral high ground if we do not embody that vision ourselves. we must renew and intensify our efforts to build a better european union, one that ensures freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law for all our citizens. there is a big task to be undertaken by all of us.
mr president, it’s time – this is the theme of this year’s europride to be held in serbia this weekend. the serbian authorities have banned the march, citing security concerns. after three years of planning and coordination, they backtracked on lgbti+ representation. heartbreaking, but entirely too familiar to us in this house. we have our own leaders here in the eu backtracking on the work done, actively writing discrimination into national laws on women’s rights, on lgbti rights. deliberate strategies aimed at weakening our fundamental rights. it is our duty and responsibility to stand strong with our citizens. it is also our duty and responsibility to ensure that the fundamental rights of all our citizens are protected. congresswoman ocasio-cortez shared it best. it’s not up to us to love parts of people. we love all people, and we are all equal in the eyes of the law. it’s time we take the opportunity to reflect on the lessons learned in reports like this and push to truly protect all our citizens. while this report outlines how we are taking steps in the right direction, we have not done enough to protect our minority communities today. it’s time our leaders fully defend our european values and equality and promote our european identity. i’ll be at europride, together with colleagues from across this political house. we will march. we will stand for fundamental human rights. colleagues, it’s time.
mr president, i think the issue of fundamental rights is becoming more important over time for a number of reasons. first, we are in opposition to russia and to some extent to china. we therefore have an obligation to send the message that the advantage of a democratic society is being strengthened and not eroded. secondly, we have difficult enlargements ahead of us and we must set a good example: in ukraine, in the western balkans, in moldova, in georgia. thirdly, we are facing problems that we have not faced in the past. for example, in greece we are now the worst in terms of protecting media freedom. we have a journalist murder that has not been exposed and solved, and we have mass surveillance, at a rate of 15,000 a year, and surveillance of the leader of the socialists. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the european union is demonstrating its credibility in defending human rights and in relation to third countries with which it has partnerships such as azerbaijan. azerbaijan started the war in nagorno-karabakh in 2020 and after a hard-fought peace, it is now violently violating the ceasefire. this time they attacked armenia itself. civilian infrastructure has also been hit, killing 49 civilians and soldiers. and just as we have condemned russia, despite the fact that many european countries are dependent on russian energy, we must condemn azerbaijan for this aggression and aggressive policy if we are to consistently stand up for human rights. so let's ask ourselves, what do we value more: human life or gas, whether that gas is from russia or azerbaijan?
mr president, this is a good report, but will the commission act on it? last week, over 60 syrian and lebanese migrants were left stranded in a sinking fishing boat in the middle of the mediterranean. we left them there for four days without help and four children on board died as a result of our inaction. this is barbaric, but it’s just fortress europe doing what it’s set up to do. in fact, it’s exactly what the members of this parliament voted for back in 2019. over 3 200 people were reported dead or missing in the mediterranean last year – over 3 200! and that’s not to mention those who fell victim to illegal pushbacks at the greek-turkish border or the 37 refugees killed by spanish and moroccan border guards at melilla this spring or the innocent migrants detained in greece, charged with people smuggling. we sit here in our cosy european fortress; migrants die at our borders. and people in here keep talking about european values – what values i’d like to know?
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a specific case, yes, an important case of the arrest of one of the opposition leaders, boyko borisov. but let me tell you, the abuse of power doesn't start with this case. he found his culmination with it, but violating the constitution and the laws has become the norm in the last few months. let me also tell you about a number of other cases, 191 in number, which were brought to your attention, mr reynders, to the attention of vera yurova, to a number of committees responsible for this in the european parliament. how an interior minister had the audacity to threaten political activists, to force them to sign protocols, "warning protocol" is what it's called in english. he was warning them about being active in the campaign. for example, a 27-year-old young man from aitos, a municipal councillor, a candidate for representative, was called by the police and warned why he was distributing information materials, leaflets, pens. manfred weber to be a candidate in a district in bavaria and the german police to summon him for distributing pamphlets. where do you see this, where have you seen this in a european country? second example, also very frenetic. people with problems, motor problems, some of them born that way. the bulgarian police, under the able leadership of boyko rashkov, go and check these people. he asks them if these people really have motor problems, and he makes them do exercises. all this restricts the free choice of bulgarian citizens. and i want you to clearly condemn this, both morally and politically, because this institution has the moral political authority. this cannot happen in a democratic country, a member of the european union in the 21st century.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, i have to say, i find it incredibly interesting to see the epp being so exercised about the rule of law in bulgaria, because he certainly didn’t have any interest in it before the change of government. in fact, the epp voted against a parliament resolution in 2020 which dealt with the deep and systemic weaknesses in rule of law in bulgaria, the systemic problems in the country’s judicial system, the misuse of eu funds, the horrific prison conditions and many more. but of course, boyko borisov was in power then, so it didn’t matter. these problems haven’t gone away, and it’s very clear that this debate isn’t about a genuine concern of rule of law. it’s a political stunt to use the european parliament to influence the bulgarian elections in gerb’s favour. and it is pathetic. look around: everybody has seen through your con. the key point here is not having enough evidence to convict someone is not the same as being exonerated of wrongdoing. at the heart of this arrest were claims of extortion by a bulgarian gambling boss in dubai, who says that boyko borisov, one of his ministers and mps designated gambling legislation to keep his taxes down in return for multi-million handouts and backhanders. it’s a fact these claims have never been investigated by the hand—picked bulgarian prosecutor geshev, who has tried to keep the lid on this case and so many others. so let’s hope that the epp’s own office investigates these claims, because my god, the people of bulgaria deserve better.
madam president, for me this resolution is a hodgepodge of unverified and wildly exaggerated claims laced with a strong dose of hypocrisy, as the right-wing groups beat their breasts over mass data collection and mistreatment during secret security screening of refugees, all seasoned with a hearty dollop of pure invention. there's no doubt about it that the stuff the russians are doing in screening ukrainians entering russia is bad: fingerprinting, facial biometrics, invasive background checks, detention – all nasty stuff that would be very familiar to anybody who tried to enter the european union over the past decades. there's no question that those detained in screening are having a horrible time. but i don't remember the right wing jumping up and down about the detention filtration camps in the european union, where refugees are kept for years, where the conditions are so bad that people set fire to themselves to end the horror. we have a un statement on this issue – it's a world away from this resolution. there should be an investigation of verified claims, and international bodies need to take human rights seriously. parliament should stop turning itself into a pathetic parrot parody of a tabloid newspaper.
madam president, there is a huge leap from what the assistant un secretary-general for human rights told the security council a week ago and what this resolution is claiming. the secretary-general spoke about human rights violations at the site of security checks of ukrainians. she also raised concerns that the russian authorities have adopted a simplified procedure to grant russian citizenship to children without parental care. under article 50 of the fourth geneva convention, the russian federation is prohibited from changing these children’s personal status, including nationality. it is also highly concerning that normal procedures around family reunification appear to be disregarded. but the resolution is stating that between 1 and 2.5 million ukrainians have been forcibly deported to russia. these are the ridiculous claims of kyiv and washington made with no supporting scientific evidence in the fog of war. we should call on russia to respect international law and the global compact for migration, as should the eu, and parliament should not be used to regurgitate unfounded accusations.
madam president, madam commissioner, i think we are really in the midst of a paradox. this morning our commission president said that it was absolutely necessary to combat global warming. we must fight against fossil fuels. and what do we see in africa, particularly in uganda and tanzania? we see that total energy is involved in unacceptable attacks on the climate. it's a real climate bomb, actually. whether it is in tilenga, with its 400 oil wells, and particularly on the edge of one of the largest lakes in africa, which is very rich in biodiversity, or the eacop project, it is a total mega-pipeline project of 1,443 kilometres in length. it's the equivalent of brussels-madrid, when you look at it. it'll also be heated to 50 degrees. so this is a project that has all the ingredients of an ecocide. you know, the displacement of people, the land grabbing, the destruction of ecosystems, the endangerment of food security, the violation of human rights. so i ask my colleagues to vote for this resolution because it will be a sign of the need to stop this project. but i also question the commission because the european commission helps me. we are helping uganda and tanzania, so we need to put pressure on those governments. and then france, with total énergie, must be consistent with its fight against global warming. so we're asking for this project to be stopped.
madam president, climate systems’ break down is barrelling ahead at full speed and we’re recommending that totalenergies undertake a feasibility study on an environmentally friendly road for the 1 400-kilometre-long pipeline. the question should be what we do with the likes of totalenergies. we make all kinds of agreements on climate action, and these companies behave like there is no climate disaster. in fact, the scrambling to tap into new oil fields. over usd 500 billion will be spent on developing new oil fields between now and 2030. conflicts are raging around the world, especially where climate disaster is undermining sustainable living for the many. and oil companies are persuading governments to send armies and militias to quash the instability so that they can safely extract the fossil fuels that will intensify the climate crisis. this is a downward spiral towards oblivion. but under the system of capitalism, the profits of merchants of debt like totalenergies are more important than life itself.
madam president, madam commissioner, today we are talking about the latest episode of the policy of terror which nicaragua is unfortunately experiencing as a result of the dictatorship which has been established by daniel ortega and rosario murillo. after systematically jailing all presidential candidates, persecuting any voice of dissent, journalists, human rights defenders, student leaders... the latest crackdown has reached one of the few dissenting voices the country had, which is the church, with the imprisonment of bishop rolando álvarez. unfortunately, this is accompanied by the public singling out and photographing of some of the political prisoners we have seen in recent weeks. this is a deplorable situation which deserves our strongest condemnation. the question is, what to do? mobilizing all our diplomatic efforts, talking to all our partners in the region, who must be involved in our response, and, of course, using all the mechanisms - including the trade agreements we have - of political cooperation so that they are suspended: all the necessary efforts to combat the dictatorship that the country is experiencing.
madam president, please. for years, the catholic church has been persecuted in nicaragua. it is time for the european parliament to take action against the religious persecution of the atheist regime. there's no room for further miscommunication. the arrest of bishop alvarez and the arrest of eight priests is a clear message, one that has been expressed here in many ways. on his 2019 european tour, bishop alvarez asked us to continue to support his church without fear of being a charity, because in doing so, they give life and hope to others. the persecuted, the suffering, must know that we do not turn our backs on them, and that we europeans have a moral duty to stand up for persecuted christians in the strongest possible way. we'd have expected this during the decades of communism. action is needed on the part of european foreign policy. we demand the release of bishop alvarez and his associates. we must also help rebuild damaged, destroyed churches and the church's social activities. the above example illustrates the need for the european commission to finally appoint a special representative for religious freedom outside europe after more than three years.
madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament for this important call and for the broad political support it has received. the human rights situation in nicaragua is deteriorating. thousands of people have been forced to leave this country, thousands of people are in prison, they are persecuted. they are students, journalists, civil society organizations, and the catholic church. especially the catholic church, because it supports people who are in need, helps them and fights for human rights. the last such person to be imprisoned is bishop alvarez, in whose case we ask for his release. we also demand the release of other political prisoners. we demand that daniel ortega be brought before the international criminal court for crimes against humanity. i believe this challenge will have broad support.
madam president, i would like to remind you that it all started with a wonderful speech on equality, racial equality, gender equality, which president ortega of nicaragua often delivered. and we hear that speech a lot here in parliament. that speech sounds very nice, and what the realization of that idea looks like, we see now in nicaragua, where president ortega arrested bishop alvarez because that bishop didn't think as the president, he wasn't equal to the president. similarly, the promoters of that equality in this parliament would not allow, say, the promoters of proliferation to enter this parliament, and they would probably arrest us if they had that power, as has already happened recently in european history. so the idea of equality is false. we are different and that's good in a plural society, but we should have equal rights. that's why we stand for equal rights, not equality, because equality always leads to totalitarianism and aggression.
madam president. what you have to explain and what you never explain in motions like this is why your so—called authoritarian regimes also have massive support. instead, what we’re presented with is effectively a cartoon. you reduce diverse and complicated histories to a single cliché. you pretend that a section of the population – the comprador middle class – is the people, and you ignore the larger sections of society that disagrees. you ignore the history of anti-imperialist and class struggle. if we’re to be honest about why nicaragua is the way it is today, we should talk about the decades of assault, the campaigns of terror, the years of contempt against the decent, justified struggles of ordinary people for self-determination and decent lives. we should look at what came before. we should look at what the sandinistas tried to build and how it was wrecked by the likes of us. i’m not here to excuse repression, but we are the last people who should be lecturing nicaragua.
madam president, bishop alvarez, like anyone, should have a right to voice opposition to the government. the violent us-backed coup in 2018 resulted in approximately 200 deaths on both sides. the national endowment for democracy and the cia funded some far-right criminals who plotted death and destruction. bishop alvarez, with his own tv station and several radio stations, was also heavily involved. he may be a bishop, but raymundo alvarez is no saint. the crimes he is accused of are serious and require a fair and thorough investigation. instead of rushing to condemn, we need support to call up pope francis for a return to dialogue between church and state and encourage a return to peace and stability. the right to dissent and to voice political opposition to those in power should never be a crime, not in nicaragua or anywhere else. we've seen people arrested and media banned in russia, ukraine and the eu for opposing the war narrative. freedom of expression is under threat everywhere, sadly.
madam president, commissioner, mr rapporteur, my country, galicia, borders portugal's sister nation and needs answers that overcome the barriers that limit and separate us from the social, environmental, cultural and economic reality of which we are a part, with better transport links, such as the railway lines between vigo and porto. with a joint response to natural disasters, such as fires, sharing public, health, educational and cultural services, because it is necessary to remove the obstacles that still make life and cross-border cooperation difficult, as happened in the pandemic, closing borders in densely populated areas, with great movement of workers, with serious economic consequences. on the contrary, i want the rapporteur to get to know the living laboratory of crossborder friendship, the eurocity cerveira-tomiño, two municipalities, a joint project. the eurocidade cerveira-tomiño participates in the european grouping of territorial cooperation of the minho river, which brings together 26 municipalities of the minho border between galicia and portugal. the eurocity is a new model of cross-border governance, similar to the eurocity of verín-chaves and others. we want to continue to support bridges without frontiers against the administrative barriers of centralism. this is the europe of the peoples.
the honourable chairman, the honourable commissioner, the esteemed rapporteur. first, a heartfelt congratulations to the reporters for their excellent reporting. mrs constanze, thank you very much for your excellent cooperation over the years, which i have also done in the european parliament in the committee of the regions. as we have said today, i think it is necessary to reiterate that cohesion policy works and is very important. it is important in terms of reducing development disparities, the disparities between regions. it is also very important because it is developmental in the sense that municipal budgets, regional budgets are also adapted to the cohesion policy guidelines. i have a wealth of experience in this area as a long-term mayor in slovenia. cohesion policy has also been able in recent years to be responsive and respond to the challenges posed by the migrant crisis, the covid crisis or, if you like, the energy crisis. what is very important to me is that the principle of solidarity is the easiest to implement through cohesion policy. this policy is therefore binding on the european union and is understood as such by europeans. i would like to emphasise the importance of the countryside, which is home to 140 million people. in the future, funds that are development funds, from regional, cohesion, social and also other funds, need to be pooled in rural areas and integrated development also needs to be done there. because without developed rural areas, the european union will be very impoverished. thank you and congratulations again on your work.
madam president, the regions must have direct access to the cohesion funds: direct participation by regions and cities ensures that programmes are better adapted to the needs and capacities of the productive fabric, brings decision-making processes closer to the citizens and improves the possibilities of control. this measure also better involves cohesion policy in the energy transition and decarbonisation processes. the knowledge of the environment and the productive fabric, the ability to connect with citizens and work together on the essential changes in mobility, waste treatment and other key issues, resides in regional and local institutions; therefore, directly connecting cohesion operations with those who know the territories best is not only a necessity, it is already an obligation. finally, i would ask that the knowledge that the crossborder regions can provide in the field of integration and cohesion be used: their 150 million inhabitants know better than anyone what we are losing by not completely eliminating the borders that have separated us for centuries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that, beyond the current crises and the medium-term, we can certainly say and observe that cohesion policy has everywhere had the effect of reducing the territorial gap within the european union. but this is not the case in italy - i say this to the rapporteurs - where economic, social and territorial inequalities are increasing more and more, without any reversal of trend for decades now. this is despite the fact that the recovery and resilience framework is in sharp contrast to the territorial disparities between its horizontal priorities. and then i refer to the conclusions of the department for cohesion policy and the budget office of the italian parliament, which point to the real risk of failure of the medium-term objectives, because the way the italian plan has been conceived provides for distribution mechanisms which will, in fact, transfer and transfer funding from the poor part of the country to the rich part of the country. i ask the european commission what it intends to do to prevent this distortion of objectives which is damaging not only to italy but to the whole of the european union.
mr president, thank you; i would also like to begin by thanking mrs constanze krehl for all her work in the committee on regional development. cohesion policy is the instrument that must give citizens confidence in their future, no matter where they are in europe. the covid-19 pandemic and the war in ukraine have caused the worst recession since 1945, and this requires us to take a set of concrete actions aimed at removing regional disparities. investment in infrastructure, whether rail or road, alongside medical and school infrastructure, is an indispensable element for any region. long-term economic growth is dependent on broadband internet access, but above all on research and innovation. a special place is given to strengthening links between urban and rural areas, which have the potential to provide new development opportunities and to stimulate economic and social development. encouraging investment at regional, urban and rural levels by mobilising private sector resources must be matched by a substantial reduction in red tape in accessing european funds. and in this context, commissioner, i would stress the need for synergy between the funds to achieve these objectives, and the example of the leader fund is the best one for all the member states to follow. cross-border regions need solutions and policies adapted to new realities. at the same time, i regard the exclusion of romania, bulgaria and croatia from the schengen area as deeply immoral, because these countries are technically prepared and regional development is impossible without belonging to this area. (the speaker agreed to reply to a 'blue card' intervention)
response to the 'blue card' intervention. mr president, i believe that first of all we need to reduce bureaucracy in terms of accessing european funds, because today the main destructive factor in terms of an efficient process of absorbing european funds is bureaucracy, and in this respect i appreciate that we need an intervention from the european commission so that we can talk about a fluent process of accessing european funds.
mr president, commissioner, i too would like to welcome this report, which takes up all the opportunities of the border regions, but also shows the difficulties. as i myself live in alsace, in the far east, in the deep borderlands, i would like to testify to the difficulties - in particular the road congestion - faced by the border workers who cross the borders every day, with its negative effects on human health, but also on the health of our planet. i would like to think together about two possibilities. firstly, the track of cross-border mobility to be developed: soft mobility, but also rail mobility, for which we need funding. for example, a few kilometres from here, we lack trains to cross the rhine. i would also like to explore a second option, namely, teleworking for our frontier workers, where possible. this teleworking, which was possible during covid and which today is a real struggle for workers because they find themselves facing the wall of the member states and dependent on their will, or not, to move forward on social and tax legislation. and here, madam commissioner, we also need a strong political impulse from you and from us.
mr president, there is no doubt that cohesion policy is not a backward policy that is shrinking in a corner, and the report on the eu's border regions compares these vast and populated areas as living laboratories of european integration. and i'm convinced that it's quite appropriate. the number of problems facing these regions is growing. this policy of course addresses some of the core values of european integration, such as free movement, solidarity, regional convergence and other eu core principles. on the other hand, even in these difficult times, we should not allow cohesion policy as such to be turned into a laboratory. its existence is vital only because it brings tangible results. economic growth helps to preserve our union. what i fear recently is that attempts to gradually increase the financial base of this policy are often made in the name of other important objectives, which are hot topics, but almost always at the expense of cohesion policy. often this is understandable from a broader perspective, but this attitude is certainly dangerous in the long run. as an advocate of cohesion policy, i prefer gradual improvement. and these two motions for resolutions which have been tabled before us, i think, contribute to improving cohesion policy, and i want to thank both rapporteurs for that.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you to all of you members of this parliament for this very interesting discussion and debate. a lot of subjects have been touched upon. i took careful note of all the recommendations and suggestions, and in particular, i would like to stress two or three points. the first one is the kind of common message that i receive from all of you, that in fact, cohesion policy is absolutely crucial, that cohesion policy is essential, and there were very nice words saying that it is the beating heart of europe that is essential for the european project – and i also personally believe this. but for this it is very important that, outside of this group of experts and the friends of the policy, we spread and we make visible what is done and what is the actual relevance of what is done with the funds from cohesion policy, which is not often the case. then, there are lots of demands and requests and a lot of them require trade—offs. so i think we all have to be prepared to analyse the details split from all these discussions and from all these trade-offs needed – like being more sensitive to the diversity of situations and at the same time more simple and at the same time going closer to people. we all know that these wishes require trade-offs, and these trade-offs have got to be worked out in this future vision of the cohesion policy. with the time that is remaining. i would like to stress the importance of public administration and the quality of public administration and the work that is being done by dg reform together with the regions. and i would also like to stress this importance of accepting and treating the diversity of regions with a particular focus – of course, in the weakest ones and also in the cross-border regions. in fact, you have supported a lot of needs and it is true that relaunching the european cross-border mechanism is important, but also to analyse how we can operate a better way to simplify the lives of those that live close to another country, close to another region. and allow me, mr president, just to express also institutionally and personally, my thanks to constanze krehl. it is a privilege to have such an expert among us and it’s absolutely amazing to have someone that for three decades has been working on cohesion policy, on regional policy. of course, we will miss you, constanze, but we are counting on your presence, active and intensive and knowledgeable as usual. so thank you very much. danke schön constanze, you have been absolutely essential in the development of the policy.
the rapporteur. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i would like to take the last two official minutes of speaking time in this house to thank you for allowing me to stand here in this last plenary session and be your rapporteur on future cohesion policy. i would like to thank you for the long cooperation with the commission, with the commissioner, my dear elisa, thank you very much! i would like to thank the many staff who have accompanied me in this house for many years, almost 32 years, and who have supported me in my work in the secretariats of the political groups and the committees for assistance. i think we have shown that it is good to have a mixture of young members of this parliament and a little more experienced members of this parliament. i wish you all much success in your further work on european cohesion policy, on european regional policy. perhaps we will meet again at some point to discuss together and give new impetus to this european idea - this common idea that people here have a right to equal living conditions, equal living conditions, that we have a right to experience and overcome the challenges of our time with cohesion policy and that we will succeed together in simply becoming a better europe. i thank you very much and wish you every success in your work.
thank you very much, mrs. krehl. i also want to thank you for your work. there are not many people - tonight, certainly not many - who have been in this house with me for so long without us having worked together in a joint committee. but your reputation precedes you in other committees, of course, and i wish you well. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. have a good day.
the rapporteur. mr president, perhaps we should have reversed the order of the speeches so that constanze krehl would have the last word in this debate. and for the third time, i would of course like to pay tribute to the absolutely extraordinary work done by constanze krehl in the regi committee. and i think there are few members who can say that their action has changed the lives of european citizens in practice - since you, constanze, negotiated three programmes of european funds. very quickly, the atmosphere of this debate and the massive support for the constanze krehl report and the report on border regions showed the great unity within the regi committee and within the european parliament, all political groups almost united in defending cohesion policy and in committing it to modernisation. it's the very condition for his future. i want to thank all the speakers who have supported my report, and i am not surprised that it is the nationalists and fascists who are opposed to the report on the border regions because obviously they do not understand it. in conclusion, commissioner, i would like to say that we will be voting overwhelmingly tomorrow on the constanze krehl report. we shall vote, i hope, overwhelmingly on my report. in his report, in mine, in all the reports we have adopted in plenary, the report on the eusf, the regi report on the islands, the reports we are going to adopt, we make very concrete proposals. and i do not want the own-initiative reports of our regi committee and parliament to end up in the drawers. there is a concrete basis for the commission to put proposals on the table. today, when it comes to the crossborder mechanism, it is urgent, urgent, that the council and the commission respond to the bullet fired by parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 september 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the explanations of vote.
mr president, real wages are collapsing around europe. in spain in the last year, real wages are down 8.1%; in italy, 7.5%. real wages are down 5% on average in ireland. but europe’s lowest paid workers are facing the biggest fall in their purchasing power this century. the real statutory minimum wage in many member states has been decimated. in the last year the change to the real statutory minimum wage, is a staggering 19% cut: in the czech republic, 10%, and in the netherlands, it’s a 6.6% cut. only yesterday, the irish government announced that it will increase the minimum wage by 80 cents, up to eur 11.30 per hour. but eur 11.30 is not an increase in real terms at all. in real terms, it will be a cut. the headline figure is a 7.6% increase, but inflation is currently running at 8.7% and could be even higher next year when the increase takes effect. what low paid workers really need is a living wage, but by the time that the minimum wage increase takes effect in ireland in january 2023, we’ll be further away from a living wage than we were in 2021.
mr president, my problem with this report is that libya seems to have been forgotten in it, getting only the vaguest of mentions. but then libya always seems to be forgotten. i can’t remember any urgency or resolution in here since i started, dealing directly with the fact that libya is now hell on earth for the people who live there or who are stuck there. and given the direct responsibility of a number of european countries for the nato operation that destroyed libya, it should always be top of our agenda. given that the eu is effectively collaborating with acts of murder, torture, imprisonment, rape, enforced disappearance perpetrated in libya’s prisons, which the unhcr concluded last year were crimes against humanity. given the discovery of mass graves by the un investigators last march, we might be more focused on it. but of course, the reality is that the eu wants to look away. we’re all over crimes against humanity when they’re committed by countries outside the eu, but we want nothing to do with the ones we’ve caused, we finance, we support and give our blessing to. if hypocrisy had a name, it would be called the eu.
mr president, the investment plans and aspirational language are a far cry from the reality for many of the southern neighbourhood countries. barely two years ago, france and italy were fighting each other in a proxy war over control of libyan resources, and the report is talking about the eu promoting peace and stability in the region? let’s not forget, france led the charge when nato bombed africa’s most prosperous nation back to the stone age, and in arming extremist militias and warlords are currently fighting each other in tripoli. syria was also a prosperous nation prior to nato’s failed regime change war and the illegal sanctions that now cripple the country, while foreign powers occupy syria and steal its resources. as was palestine, which is suffering under brutal eu-backed israeli occupation, bombings and apartheid. the western sanctions imposed in response to the war are driving the entire region into crisis. further imf loans increased indirect taxation, which hits the poor, cutting public services which increases unemployment. let’s face it, we are busy destroying the southern neighbourhood.
madam president, smes are the backbone of the economy, we say, but they are also the backbone of social cohesion across the union. they support our communities right throughout member states and they are under significant pressure. and when we talk about regulations, red tape, the unwinding of all of these barriers, the most immediate challenge, commissioner, is the lack of access to credit to address what is going to be a major crunch in the next couple of weeks and months with escalating energy prices. we are going to see an awful lot of small and medium-sized businesses go to the wall if they can’t access working capital and short-term credit to facilitate the extraordinarily high energy bills that will land on their desks in the next couple of weeks. in ireland alone, some companies, or some small and medium-sized businesses, are experiencing a threefold increase in their energy bills alone. and it is a very, very worrying aspect for most of them. so i would urge the commission in doing all the other things, the late payments directive, but the immediate issue is to ensure that they have access to credit to address what will be a major cash flow crisis in the short and medium term.
madam president, after the previous speech, i would like to say: 'let's get back to protecting our rivers.' the rivers are truly our wealth. there is no doubt that the great european currents are always transfrontier, so the european dimension is quite clear. these incidents also occur in the czech republic. there's been a significant incident here. i'm not gonna abuse my performance. i was quite convinced by the commissioner's speech. i think it's important to meet two needs. i really think it's necessary to map the flows in terms of illegal entries. if we don't have a mapping of the flows that are coming in, these incidents are going to happen more and more, obviously. the commissioner said that the cooperation of these national authorities was absolutely essential. it is important that the element of information is also represented. there is no doubt that citizens have a right to information, because these incidents are very disturbing, they are catastrophes on many fronts. and also the efficiency of the investigation, that's essential. it's really necessary that we have independent bodies in government that can properly investigate these incidents.
madam president, for a river that is home to over 40 local species of fish, the 100 tonnes of dead fish pulled from the river oder is nothing short of an ecological disaster. but it shouldn’t take an unmitigated ecological disaster to wake us up to the crisis state that the rivers and water sources are in across europe. it’s not just in poland. every member state should be in crisis mode. according to data from the european environmental bureau (eeb), 60% of europe’s rivers, lakes and wetlands are not in good ecological health. since the seventies, the level of european freshwater species have dropped by a staggering 81%. almost half of ireland’s rivers have unsatisfactory water quality levels, and there was a decline in water quality in 230 rivers recorded in ireland in 2020. the state of our rivers, the state of our waters right across europe can be boiled down to simply eu member states not wanting to make eu water legislation work. the legislation is there, it’s not being implemented. major polluters from industry and agriculture are running amok. is the commission prepared to act?
madam president, i have to say i’m glad that we’re having this discussion but obviously sorry that we have had to because, as colleagues have said, since the end of july we’ve had unquantifiable tonnes of dead fish floating on the oder river between germany and poland. and it is an environmental disaster of enormous proportions, the cause of which has not been clarified, the full of extent of which cannot be foreseen. so i think we really have to take note of this. we know from the polish parliamentary inspection revealing nearly 300 sites of illegal waste water discharge, but it is unclear about what and who is responsible for this poisoning. but what is clear is that the growth of algae is not a natural occurring phenomena, it’s definitely a man-made problem. it could have been caused by industrial discharges as well as dry and hot weather conditions. and as my colleague has said, it’s not a problem that’s confined to poland. we see similar phenomena on the baltic sea, which has had large dead zones reaching as much as 60 000 km2 in total. human activities, the use of artificial fertilisers in agriculture, end up in rivers and contribute to dead zones. we have to look at the cap, we have to look at our policies and we have to look at a policy of degrowth.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much again for putting this topic on today’s agenda. i am pleased that i can stand here on behalf of my colleague, commissioner sinkevičius, who is following this debate. he could not be here today, but i spoke to him before we started to debate this horrible case, and he confirmed to me that it is among his main priorities to understand what happened, why it happened, and what all those involved can do to restore the river’s ecosystem. of course, everything should also be done in the follow-up to take all the preventive measures so that we don’t see such cases again in europe. i can only confirm what he told me, that we expect the polish authorities to investigate thoroughly the case and to find out the reasons for the catastrophe. indeed, we are waiting for the results of the investigations, which should come on the 30 september 2022. for the commission, it’s important that we not only know what happened, but also that we draw lessons so that we have sufficient knowledge to prevent new cases of this kind in the future. we need to be prepared in such cases to act swiftly, to warn those concerned and to contain the impacts as much as possible. as i said before, we must be prepared to address these accidents more fundamentally wherever we exercise more pressure, usually for economic reasons, than our rivers can handle. the commission will remain in close contact with the countries most concerned to offer our support where possible, but also to ensure that eu law is respected. a question was put many times regarding the commission’s action. of course, we have eu law, which the commission is obliged to pursue. we will react according to the rules and competences we have in our hands. we have a lot of legislation – as you know better than me – in this field. ms spurek asked about this lack of preparation, so we are preparing the revision of the urban wastewater treatment directive. it is planned for the end of november as part of the package on zero pollution, as you also probably know. madam president, honourable members, events such as the massive death of fish on the oder over the summer is catastrophic for aquatic life, for nature directly linked to the river, for fishermen, for citizens who want to relax at or in the river, and for everyone who depends on this river. so it is our common obligation to try to understand and to take the necessary steps not to let this happen again and to repair what has been damaged. thank you very much.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the oral explanation of vote.
madam president, i’m really annoyed that i had to abstain on this motion because of an outrageous recital giving out about hungary blocking sanctions against russia. if hungary wants to block sanctions because their economy is dependent on russia, that’s their business. if they want to block sanctions because they love putin, we might not agree with it, but that’s the law of the european union. european reaties give them that right. but what this recital does is say that hungary blocking and exercising their legal right is unacceptable and dangerous. that’s hardly accepting and respecting the rule of law, is it? what it is doing is saying the rule of law is fine, except when people we don’t like exercise it. it sounds very orbán to me. unfortunately, because of this, the hungarian government will now have an excuse to dismiss this report as politicised. we’re undermining our actually very strong case with regard to the disastrous rule of law situation in hungary, and on top of that, we are alienating the minority groups in hungary who don’t agree with orbán’s policy on russian sanctions, but the people we’re supposed to be supporting. so it’s a really serious precedent. if we accept this, what next? will we have a data protection resolution on ireland saying that our neutrality is a threat to european security? it’s just not good enough.
madam president, (the beginning of the speech was not made at the microphone)... i worked on it in the committee on budgets and i thank my colleagues for supporting my amendments. millions of ukrainians left their homes and arrived in the european union and in no country, the state was not first in customs, it was not first in stations, but volunteers and ngos mobilized from the first moment. on the group "united for ukraine", 280,000 romanians continue to help after six months of war. yet we have chosen to give funds exclusively to governments, the same governments that break the rule of law and are plagued by corruption or crippled by bureaucracy. we have also asked for direct funding lines for civil society, because european money must reach the direct beneficiaries and those who actually help, not be delayed by governments in files with three-fold exemplary files. especially now it is our duty to increase the level of preparedness and intervention in crisis, to keep european money out of corruption and to learn from the past years, not to take three mandates to change something that is not working.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report, and it does highlight the challenges facing europe with regard to the covid pandemic and now the russian aggression in ukraine. it shows that we are very reliant on international trading partners, and sometimes we are incapable of ensuring that we can have production within our own borders within the european union. at the same time, i would be very concerned that we would use this to put up barriers to international trade, to put up barriers that force, rather than encourage, competition, and that ensure that we have the standards that we can export across the globe as well in terms of environmental, labour and other standards as well. while we do need to have a capacity within our european borders in production, in modern technologies, and in creation of new ideas, thinking and innovation, we certainly do not need to become cold to others wanting to locate in europe as well, to express themselves here in terms of how they manufacture and what they want to produce. so while welcoming the report, let’s not make europe a cold place for international trade and international innovation.
madam president, i voted for this motion. i would like to compliment the work of our very own damien thomson from firhouse in dublin, who was the main negotiator on the text, and we are very proud and happy to see it. but we have to be honest as well that a lot of the good stuff in this is contradicted by our actions. the motion acknowledges that we’re not doing enough, that the green deal and fit for 55 are grand as they are but they’re not enough. and we have to look at things like the decisions we’ve made in terms of the vote on eu taxonomy, which gives a role to private investment in gas and nuclear in the green transition. we’ve got to look at us bringing back filthy fracked gas into europe, reigniting coal plants in the so-called name of the war against ukraine when the biggest war on earth is the war to save our planet. so we have to be very careful here. the issue is clear. we can continue to bend the knee to vested interests that keep the pressure on the european union to protect their profits, to continue growth, or we can to take a sustainable course. i’m very glad that a lot of good measures are contained in this report but the job of work will be to have it implemented.
madam president, over 1 300 people killed, 1 million homes gone, 33 million pakistanis displaced, but does the eu care? the un secretary-general has appealed for massive global support and tougher action on climate change. we’ve allocated eur 1.8 million in humanitarian assistance for flood victims. how much are we going to allocate for loss and damage to help survivors build back their homes? rich nations have an urgent responsibility to reduce their emissions, but not enough is being done. the eu is now undermining its climate goals to facilitate the us/nato proxy war in ukraine. across europe, member states are turning back to coal or to filthy fracked us lng. the greens are in government in germany. germany is re-firing coal plants and agreeing lng terminal contracts like there’s no tomorrow. the eu and its citizens are paying a massive financial and climate cost to support this proxy war. and just my last point. well done to damien thomson on this resolution, but very sad to see the ppe group put in an amendment which calls on the commission to refrain from proposing further eu legislation that endangers or risks endangering our food security. this is more clawback. this is not the way forward.
madam president, the european union says it respects the one-china policy. ireland stands for the one-china policy. i hope that the issues around the historical differences between taiwan and china mainland itself can be resolved, but let us be very honest with ourselves. china’s track record, in terms of how it has addressed hong kong in recent years, would give grave concern to those living in taiwan and those that want to see the issues addressed between china and taiwan resolved in the years ahead. we also have to call on international partners to dial down the rhetoric around the issue of taiwan. i went there myself personally many, many years ago. i saw first-hand their genuine efforts at trying to ensure that democracy was part and parcel of their political life. looking across the taiwan strait at how hong kong has been undermined and how democratic principles has been undermined does not give the taiwanese comfort that, in the event of there being a one-china policy completed, their democratic values and their ways of life would be respected. so we do need to dial down the rhetoric, and we have to call on china to reduce its aggression in the taiwan strait as well.
madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleagues on their work on these two dossiers, which are the essential prerequisite for strengthening european coordination in the field of health. i am, however, divided: for me, the europe of health should be in line with the citizens, for europe. it is the social europe they want. however, once again the council and the commission have managed to limit the demand of the parliament for more transparency and a systematic right of review of public money spent. transparency should not be a battle but a process, and i am annoyed that our heads of state, after many requests, do not recognize it. changing and strengthening europe means first and foremost building a europe we trust, and transparency is essential for this.
madam president, the pandemic has forced us, the european union, to take a step forward in the field of health policies, and we have done so. this is the best thing that could be done for health, and this regulation is a concrete expression of this. we are pleased that, following the last trilogues, the final version of this standard incorporates some of our proposals. for example, regional authorities should be involved in the development of plans for prevention and preparedness for crossborder health threats. governments like the one in catalonia, where i was a health adviser, have a lot to say about this. but there is more to the regulation that we celebrate: the holistic vision, for example, that these preparedness plans will take into account the impact of epidemiological threats on mental health and other non-communicable diseases, or the incorporation of the core principles of 'one health'. the pandemic has made us understand better than ever the link between human health, animal health and environmental health, as well as rethinking all our health policies. how, then, can we conduct prevention policies without recognising the central role of social determinants? there is no doubt that the approval of this regulation is good news for the right to health of european citizens, and we welcome it.
i have to say, madam president, the pandemic is over. us president joe biden said this, adding: "we still have a problem with covid". and i think joe biden is pretty close to a realistic assessment of the situation. we're in a much, much better situation now than we were in 2020 and 2021. we have another virus. we have a high level of protection with a very good vaccine, which was also produced, developed and made available with the help of the european union. many things were not perfect, but we should not forget that we are in a much better place now, also thanks to the actions of the european union. we can focus on the other concerns that people have. and we have to do that because these other problems, for example in the energy sector, are big. the two texts now before us for voting will ensure that we are better prepared the next time something like this happens to us. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be involved in the fight against terrorism. if we look at china, we see that the problem is not over. so europe didn't do that badly.
madam president, let us be clear: what we are talking about is a path to the health market in the european union. to make health care a business, to promote its privatisation, with the damage that the portuguese feel on their skin, with the degradation of the national health service and calling into question its universal dimension, the quality and guarantee of the right to health. a path that the european commission has already been following through budgetary constraints and country-specific recommendations, which impose cuts in primary government spending on health. we are facing a path which is aimed at opening the door to liberalization, privatisation and concentration in the health sector, while transferring powers from the states to the supranational sphere. the people are being lost, the big economic groups are being sacked with the prospect of turning disease into profit. the organisation of health care is a national competence and should be so, ensuring high quality, free and universal public services, with adequate investments in infrastructure, specialist and local responses, valuing health professionals and their working conditions.
madam president, and i think while there is certainly a need to improve and deepen european collaboration in order to prevent, monitor and respond to cross-border health threats, i think covid, more than anything, has highlighted actually the harmful consequences of neoliberal policy adjusted to the health sector and promoted in the eu. the commodification of health care is assaulting the principle that health is a fundamental right. and we see in countless states institutional abuse, lack of materials, exorbitant prices and the priority given to profit. and where is this coming from? it's coming from the commission. we know that many member states have been directed to slaughter their health budgets in order to balance the books. and we saw those devastating consequences then, in covid, when people and economies had to be basically shut down, people were locked in nursing homes, nobody could visit them because of the fear of what would happen if there was an outbreak of covid and the hospitals couldn't cope. so we need to ensure that health is immune from the loss of the market. health should be a fundamental right.
madam president, sorry, the machine said ‘yes’, and you have to behave fairly in this procedure.
the regulation on the health union, which we are voting on tomorrow, is an important step in creating the legislative framework which will apply immediately to the member states, so that they can cooperate in the exchange of data in a safe and interoperable way and shift their focus immediately to the prevention of diseases and epidemics. the pandemic has taught us that no member state, however powerful it may be, however strong its economy, however modern and well-equipped its health system, can cope with large-scale crises without european cooperation and solidarity, without common action. the prevention of cancer and the continuing care of patients, as described in the european plan we have drawn up in cooperation with the commission, must first of all be implemented with devotion by the member states and serve as a guide for the next steps. at the same time, cross-border access to innovative medicines and high-tech medical care is an obligation of our governments. we must give europeans equal opportunities for prevention and care, whether they live in castellorizo and nevrokopi or in the centre of brussels and paris.
member of the commission. – thank you, madam president. honourable members, thank you for yet another very important debate. now, the solutions to this pandemic and other major health threats which challenge us lie, as some of you have already mentioned – mep cerdas, mep sidl – in collaboration and in solidarity. with the two rapporteurs of these important reports, we have often discussed this. and this is the way we are moving forward as a european commission: putting forward proposals that are built on this solidarity and collaboration – the pharmaceutical strategy, the european health data space, and europe’s beating cancer plan. we must continue to take it to the next stage. the covid-19 crisis has shown us we could and we can do things better and differently. many of us seem to have forgotten where we were in early 2020. we take it for granted that we would have safe and effective vaccines, that these would be available for all member states at the same time, no matter how big or small. member states had access to these vaccines, but 2.4 billion were also exported to the rest of the world. in fact, two thirds of what we produced in the eu was exported to the rest of the world. this unprecedented health crisis showed the importance of what the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) can do, but also what we needed to improve, and that cross-border threats need a different approach. so it’s only right that we’ve designed a stronger legal framework to enhance eu capacity in the areas of prevention, preparedness, surveillance, risk assessment, early warning and response. honourable members, with these new regulations, we’ve shown that we can move forward together decisively and faster. and of course, i took note of what mep esther de lange said on the importance of mental health. it remains a very high priority in this commission, as it should do. you mentioned cancer as well. two weeks ago, we proposed new screening guidelines with very specific targets for all member states. so this is a strong european health union we are building together, and this is how we can make this health union work for all its citizens, because they expect and deserve no less.
in writing. today we are taking some important steps towards a health union in the european parliament. the reform of the ecdc and the eu's equipping to protect citizens' health in the face of future pandemics bodes well. but not enough. at the conference on the future of europe, citizens pressed for a series of measures to support national health systems, which are often unable to cope with health crises. just think of the health crises that have been exacerbated by pandemics -- the crisis of mental health problems or the crisis caused by the lack of diagnosis or treatment of cancer. the eu should proactively protect the health of its citizens by supporting health systems to achieve minimum standards of quality in health services. furthermore, the experience of joint procurement of covid vaccines should be used as soon as possible to address shortcomings in the supply and access to essential medicines. the european union is on the right track in health, but it should accelerate to catch up with the health crises that are starting to show their teeth. but it should also get a new 'engine' for this, in the form of shared health competences and therefore the amendment of the eu treaties.
in writing. mr president, today the eu takes a final and very important step in the promotion and protection of the union's common health by adopting here in strasbourg the outcome of the consultation on the strengthening of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) and the regulation of serious crossborder threats to health. i have long advocated a stronger eu in health. we are also stronger in health as a whole than individually, as the coronavirus pandemic has shown. we are now finally putting in place concrete tools to ensure that member states prepare and respond to health crises together, that affordable and innovative medical devices are available to all, and that countries work together to improve the prevention, treatment and control of communicable diseases and diseases. this is definitely a step in the right direction. the excellent news is also that the regulation on serious crossborder health threats includes joint procurement agreements for the joint procurement of medicines. it is essential for our cooperation that this possibility be safeguarded in the future. it is important for the eu to work together to prevent possible crises such as the coronavirus pandemic, but beyond crisis situations, we also need more cooperation in the normal course of events. the reinforcement of the mandate of the ecdc is essential for the coherence and coordination of european-wide epidemiological monitoring, surveillance and preparedness. we cannot allow another covid-19 disaster to happen. we need to invest in the treatment of basic diseases, in health care investments and in the training of staff. the work against non-communicable diseases is becoming more important as the population ages. for example, in the case of rare diseases, reference centres bring together the best expertise in the field and should be better resourced.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me thank you for the welcome opportunity to have this discussion today on ocean governance and biodiversity. the ocean is our planet’s life-support system. and still, debates like this one are needed to keep the spotlight on the ocean and to reiterate our joint commitment towards better management and protection of our oceans. honourable members, the ocean is not doing well. insufficient progress has been made over the last years towards a clean, healthy, productive and resilient ocean. and this is our collective responsibility. solutions exist and they are in our hands. they require bold choices, which need to be made now. and with the largest combined exclusive economic zone in the world, the eu and its member states have a particular interest in steering this debate and reaffirming their ambition for an improved ocean governance. the role and the support of the european parliament is crucial in this regard. today’s debate and the resolution that you will adopt later this week therefore come at exactly the right moment. and this year, 2022, is a pivotal year for ocean governance. milestone events have taken place in 2022, like the one ocean summit in brest or the un ocean conference in lisbon. in a few weeks time, the climate change cop 27 in sharm el sheikh will be an opportunity to further strengthen ocean climate change, mitigation and adaptation action. and the biodiversity cop15 in montreal will aim at an ambitious agreement, including targets to protect land and global oceans by 2030. honourable members, as we have often said, there is no green without blue and under the umbrella of the european green deal, this translates in both the international and the eu domestic strands of ocean related policies. with the joint communication on the eu’s international ocean governance agenda of june this year, the eu confirms its commitments under the united nations 2030 agenda and ahead of the two decisive cops later this year. in this context, one of the key priorities we have is to halt and reverse the loss of marine biodiversity. we hope to achieve this by concluding as soon as possible an ambitious un treaty to protect biodiversity in the high seas, including a target of 30% marine protected areas by 2030 and new large-scale marine protected areas in the southern ocean. with the high ambition coalition, which you have launched, we are at the forefront of the efforts to achieve an ambitious outcome to these negotiations. at the last negotiating round that took place in new york in august, the eu took a leading role and it was instrumental in achieving very good progress, even though, unfortunately, in the end no final agreement could be reached. another priority is to protect the seabed by prohibiting deep-sea mining until its effects on the marine environment, biodiversity, human activities have been sufficiently researched, the risks are understood and the technologies and operational practices are able to demonstrate no serious harm to the environment. furthermore, we need to ensure sustainable fisheries with a zero tolerance approach against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. in this context, we welcome the multilateral agreement achieved in the world trade organization regarding the ban of harmful fisheries subsidies. yes, it is only the first step, but the eu is fully committed to complementing this agreement as soon as possible with those essential elements not yet agreed. our fight against climate change and against marine pollution continues as well. this includes decarbonising the maritime sectors and preserving the oceans-blue carbon function, as well as work towards concluding an ambitious, legally-binding global plastic agreement by 2024. last but not least, we need to step up efforts to build up ocean knowledge. based on european programmes such as copernicus and emodnet, we want to support the implementation of a un decade collaborative centre for ocean prediction and encourage the establishment of an intergovernmental panel for ocean sustainability. honourable members, our international efforts to improve ocean governance clearly mirror the ambition of our domestic policies. the ocean, which acts as a significant carbon sink - notably its seabed, is one of our strongest allies when it comes to reaching our climate goals. let me recall that we proposed a new standard on greenhouse gas intensity of energy used on board ships. we are working with the co-legislators on extending the eu ets to maritime transport and we are also helping the fishing sector to decarbonise and to become less dependent on fossil fuels. and climate mitigation efforts need to go hand-in-hand with sustained and robust action on adaptation, to make our oceans as resilient as possible. nature based solutions are at the forefront of our action. in this context, we have proposed legally-binding eu targets to restore marine ecosystems. looking at how the ocean can support our decarbonisation efforts, offshoring renewable energy is one of the pillars of the eu’s energy transition, but we will need to look beyond offshore wind. the energy from tides and waves are predictable and promise to complement today’s technologies for wind and sun. maritime spatial planning will help us to reconcile decarbonisation objectives, but also nature protection and restoration at sea. as regards the oceans economic potential, the implementation of our communication on the sustainable blue economy has already brought many positive achievements. the implementation of the commission’s strategic guidelines for aquaculture has been advancing and we will shortly adapt an eu algae initiative which will bring new opportunities for our blue economy. in parallel will continue our joint efforts with member states and coastal communities to make eu fisheries more sustainable. important progress has already been made in the atlantic, clearly showing that the sustainability pays off also economically, but additional efforts will be necessary also in other sea basins. we are fully aware that, first, brexit and then the covid pandemic and now the russian ruthless invasion of ukraine and its consequences pose enormous challenges to the fishing sector. the eu has reacted quickly, proposing two emergency packages in 2020 and 2022 respectively, to support the fisheries sector in addressing the socio-economic consequences. we now need to further help our fishermen and women to decrease their dependency on fossil fuels and make our fisheries more resilient. finally, let me mention research and innovation, which also play a key role to unlock the oceans for potential. horizon europe, and in particular the mission to restore the health of our ocean and waters by 2030, can contribute to scaling up solutions and help us to achieve the blue targets of the european green deal. and we also need to raise awareness about oceans and increase ocean literacy, in particular of the young generation. our ocean literacy initiative, the youth for ocean coalition, the network of european blue schools and the eu4ocean forum are instrumental in this regard. honourable members, we all know that only healthy oceans can be climate mitigators and provide services for our blue economy. therefore, it’s not a luxury, but it is a necessity to prevent and mitigate the pressures provoking the biodiversity loss in our seas. we are now at a crucial moment in which we have the opportunity to put in place concrete actions to stop biodiversity loss, as well as restoring the marine ecosystems, and sustainable fisheries play a key role in this context, and the recent commission proposal for a new nature restoration law, as well as the upcoming action plan to conserve fisheries resources and protect marine ecosystems, will not only contribute to protecting and restoring our seas, but also to making the fisheries sector in europe more resilient in the long term. thank you for your attention and i am looking forward for your comments.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, there are many legends that come from my island: they say that we are home to atlantis, the legend of calypso, and that we stand at the point where the plates of europe and africa kiss. and while the legends that we are told by fishermen weaving their nets are fables, the deep and intricate relationship between islands and oceans is not. in 1967, one of the greatest marine conservationists of our time called for the ocean seabed to be designated as the common heritage of mankind: a concept still sacrosanct in article 136 of the united nations convention on the law of the sea. he called for international regulation to prevent the colonisation of our seabed and the monopolisation of resources to the detriment of our planet. that man was maltese diplomat arvid pardo, father of the united nations convention on the law of the sea. and here i am today to reiterate his call, because colleagues, those of us who come from islands have known for all too long that our oceans are just as much a part of us as the land and trees. we depend on the oceans and our homes and livelihoods depend on the seas. we are constantly reminded that exploitation and pollution will forever affect the global ecosystem that we call home. and today, there is renewed interest from the private sector to look into the commercial exploitation of these minerals. technological advances and an increase in the long—term demand for minerals, industrialisation and globalisation have led to this strong path. in 1967, when the maltese delegation brought forward the radical notion that our seabed is imperative to humanity’s ecosystem, they were viewed with astonishment and great suspicion. but science has vindicated arvid pardo, and time and time again we are here to reiterate that message again today. the latest smartphone and the next supercomputer made from seabed minerals are not worth the irreversible destruction of our planet. and i hope that this chamber votes in this way on thursday.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, there is great news from ireland today. as of today, one of the largest living creatures on earth can celebrate a small victory. as of today, the great basking shark has been given protected status in irish waters. and with this resolution we table in the european parliament, as of today we make our voices heard that the protection of our ocean is not just a kind gesture to the very place where life began, but an urgent necessity if we are to protect biodiversity, the seas and even our atmosphere. our demands are modest, yet they still face opposition from powerful industrial and political interests. we want real marine protected areas for at least 30% of our oceans; an international moratorium on deep—sea mining now; and a total ban on oil and gas drilling in the arctic and the antarctic. these are real steps we can make in order to save thousands of species – such as the basking shark – from extinction. so support our coastal communities, support ocean life and support this resolution.
madam president, the oceans play a vital role in our well-being. threats such as pollution or illegal fishing require concerted action by all states. i regret that the last round of negotiations on a treaty for the protection of the high seas ended without an agreement. the sea is a great source of wealth and employment, as we know in spain and galicia, the first fishing region in europe. ocean governance is not understood without sustainable fisheries management, both from the environmental, economic and social point of view and also from the food security point of view. that is why it is so disappointing that the european commission recently adopted an implementing act banning bottom fishing in eighty-seven areas of the atlantic, without sufficient consultation and data. this measure seriously affects four countries, especially spain. madam commissioner, it is wise to rectify. i would once again ask the european commission to suspend the application of the ban on bottom fishing and to review this hasty decision. the latest scientific advice and a comprehensive socioeconomic impact assessment are needed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this resolution, on which we are voting, is of central importance. all life comes from water, and yet we still do far too little to protect our oceans. we have far too few protected areas. the biodiversity, the diversity of the oceans, it's not being properly protected. it's not even properly researched. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the marine environment, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account. this is also true of the economy of the sea. we have a strong shipping industry. it is also necessary for people to come together, for goods to be distributed. but ships have a lifespan of decades. that is why we must start now - and we can do so here in strasbourg next week - to decarbonise fuels. we need to make sure that these ships are not just dirt-throwing vessels, but that they are sustainable and clean. we are protecting our environment and we are actually protecting the climate. so: full support for this resolution with a clear focus on more environmental and climate protection and, above all, more and better protected areas.
madam president, madam commissioner, i share the need to strengthen ocean governance and protect diversity, but i would remind you, as the common fisheries policy has shown, that achieving this requires the involvement of all the actors involved. this is not the case with the decision by which the european commission intends to close 87 fishing areas to european vessels on 9 october. this decision is arbitrary because it does not include environmental, social and economic impact reports and because it is not based on the best available scientific reports. that's why the industry doesn't understand it or share it. that is why i encourage you to withdraw and revise it before 9 october. we protect the sea, but we count on everyone. the common fisheries policy is an example of how this can be done. the fisheries sector has been through a very difficult adjustment, socially accepted and assumed since the full awareness that only sustainable fishing and the protection of biodiversity guarantee the future of the sector. in line with this reality, the discourse that is often used against the european fisheries sector, which is exemplary in respecting the provisions in force and which operates within the framework of the most stringent rules and control measures in the world, must be re-adjusted. accusing exemplary professionals of overfishing and other irregularities is untrue, lacks empathy for people working in very difficult conditions and undermines the credibility of the common fisheries policy and the union as a whole.
madam president, we talk about managing the world's oceans and their resources so that they are healthy and productive for the benefit of current and future generations. nothing more laudable, but it has to be done in a balanced way. we see how the commission's action in this context sometimes has perverse and undesirable effects, both for operators in the european union and for the environment. i am thinking of something that has already been said: the recent decision by the commission to close down 87 areas in the atlantic where there are apparently or are likely to be vulnerable marine ecosystems, but without taking into account other aspects and leading to the ruin of thousands of fishermen's families and the mooring of important segments of the european fleet. and we cannot accept that. on the other hand, the stricter the measures adopted by the european union for fisheries and aquaculture, the more we depend on imported products and the more our competitiveness is reduced vis-à-vis third countries with poor management and governance. let's make environmental sustainability possible, but also socioeconomic sustainability. that's the challenge.
madam president, commissioner, life on our planet begins in the oceans. these are still the largest reserves of biodiversity on earth. we will not succeed in the european green deal, nor in the implementation of the paris agreement, without a strategy to secure the future of our oceans. it is up to us to find solutions that allow us to take even better advantage of the benefits these offer us, but in a sustainable way. if the communities that depend on the ocean feel the benefits of protecting it, our conservation efforts will be more effective. i therefore welcome this resolution and the holistic and comprehensive approach it proposes, combining protection and profitability of the blue economy. i would add that the strategy for our oceans must involve a strong commitment to science and scientific research. only then will we achieve this dual purpose: to conserve and to value.
madam president, it's good that in this resolution we're calling for international measures to end nuclear and military waste in the oceans. anywhere you find a foreign military base, you will find high levels of contamination and a marine environment struggling to cope. look at guam, look at hawaii, french polynesia, the marshall islands. the people and the marine ecosystems suffer catastrophically at the hands of the military industrial complex’s total carelessness. we let them treat the oceans as if they were privatized, but they are not – the ocean is a global common good. the usa has conducted more nuclear weapons tests than all other nations combined, responsible for unspeakable levels of radiation in the pacific. if we fail to stand up to military contamination, then we may forget about eu efforts for ocean protection. we need denuclearization, demilitarization and peace, and a different approach between humans and the sea.
madam president, i think it is a good motion on ocean governance and i too am glad to see the reference to military waste and activity, because military activity treating our ocean as a firing range is massively damaging to biodiversity. and just mentioning it isn’t enough: we’re going to have to do a lot more to tackle it. and of course we cannot ignore the methane explosion in the baltic sea as a result of the destruction of the nord stream pipeline. the un has said this is the biggest single methane release ever recorded. we know, of course, that methane is 80 times more powerful than co2 in heating the atmosphere, and methane leaked rather than burned is even worse and will have a massively lasting impact on the climate. the nord stream attacks have released 300 000 metric tonnes of methane. this is catastrophic. it is a climate and environmental crime. when we’re looking at protecting the ocean, we need to factor in this sabotage, have it independently investigated and have consequences for the vandals who did it.
madam president, for me, i’ve been a lifelong campaigner for the separation of church and state. religion, for me, is very much a private matter and i myself am an atheist. but i absolutely defend the right of every person to practice their religious beliefs, whatever that may be. i noticed that colleagues are very vocal about the discrimination against christianity and absolutely there is discrimination against christians. we only need to see what happened in syria when the west, in its keenness to overthrow the assad regime, opened up the borders, allowed isis in, and unleashed the gates of hell to the christians inside syria. but the reality is that the biggest persecuted religious group in europe are muslims. we see that in racist legislation enacted in numerous of our member states, conflating muslims with terrorists, and so on. i think it would be completely remiss to have this debate without mentioning the appalling massacre of hazara women and young girls in kabul last week, who just wanted to have an education. religion has been used to divide and rule. everybody’s religion should be protected, and all should be equal.
the un charter is the foundational treaty of the united nations, since 1945. when russia invaded ukraine, they breached the rules of the un charter. it was illegal. sadly, it has been breached far too often. i’ve just read this excellent book by vijay prashad and noam chomsky: the withdrawal. it highlights how the un charter has been abused. here are a few quotes from the book: ‘the war in afghanistan was unprovoked, it was an illegitimate aggression, and it was a severe atrocity.’ ; ‘40% of civilians killed by airstrikes were children.’; ‘the us had no basis whatsoever for invading afghanistan.’ the un charter was ignored. the us assassination campaign by drones is the worst territorial campaign in the world so far. it kills people that the us believes pose a threat to the us or to its interests. the un charter is ignored. in 1991, the us refused to accept saddam’s surrender and bombed everywhere they could. when asked why, president bush said, ‘we’ve shown that what we say goes’. the un charter was ignored. it’s long past time that all countries should respect the un charter, and the un or the eu should have nothing to do with those that don’t.
madam president, month after month we gather here, and month after month, the people of afghanistan suffer and die. they die from hunger, from lack of access to medicine, from earthquakes. they die because they want to send their girls to school! fifty-three mainly young women slaughtered in kabul last week and our president couldn’t even mention them earlier. increasingly, they die because they are hazaras. hundreds murdered, thousands persecuted – these people are at risk of genocide and yet the world says and does nothing. and of course, now that the us and its friends have found a new theatre of war in ukraine to test their weapons and launder their arms profits, afghans are no longer needed. discarded with all of the problems of 20 years of an intervention, left at the hands of the taliban, whom the us created. it is an affront that the biden administration has spent usd 15.2 billion on military intervention and war in ukraine while seizing usd 7 billion of afghan people’s money. for god’s sake, what have these people done to ensure this endless horror while the world does nothing? it is time to speak up, stand up and demand justice for afghanistan!
president, madam vice-president of the european commission, when i made this proposal in 2009 - which was not taken seriously by my colleagues at the time - i could not have imagined that all radio stations in the european union would be able to do so by 2022. it is probably one of the most important achievements of the european union in the last 50 years, because i cannot imagine that radio stations would open with it otherwise. it's finally here, in 2022, at least the decision for the universal charger, and it's only a few years away from being introduced. why does everything take so long? what's taking you so long? i ask myself a few questions, two actually. legislation is one. enforcement is two, control. do the multinationals have too much influence, too much power, or does the european commission have too little power? because this should have been a long-standing fact back in 2011, when it was unanimously adopted in the trialogue. but the second important lesson i take from this is: we as europe must be much more concerned with issues which concern the citizens, which they recognise, which they understand. otherwise, it wouldn't have been on all the radio stations this morning. it is important to keep the raw materials in europe. and, for you. commissioner, on the battery regulation, i introduce a raw material loop a ban on the export of waste batteries but thats rejected by the envi committee. i cannot understand that. so let's have a debate afterwards.
commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, citizens expect concrete things, and today we can demonstrate that together, parliament, the commission and the council, we can give citizens something concrete, namely savings. the citizens were very happy, and i think you all know, when roaming was introduced, it was just a euphoria, because the citizen felt that he had something concrete. so that's what's happening with this charger. of course, it has been said that waste is being saved, money is being saved, but as vice-president for the internal market, i am thinking, commissioner, of the citizen. you don't have to buy seven, eight more chargers. look, i forgot my charger at home today and i have to ask i don't know how many colleagues, to see what charger it has, to fit my phone. of course, this is a good thing, but i would like to draw your attention, commissioner, to the fact that we must not forget to follow this directive: continuous re-technologisation, digitisation - we have them on the agenda; to make a supplement to this directive so that we can go step by step ... and not forget that the speed of decision must be increased. we have been talking about this directive change for over 10 years and it has finally happened, but we must speed up our decision-making and we must communicate to the citizen what we are doing for consumers, not only the protection of quality but also the protection of the money a citizen spends. good luck and congratulations to the rapporteur and the whole team on this success. i'm sure it will be voted on.
president, commissioner, i would say at last! finally, after our first call in 2020, we're here today to greenlight that much-needed universal charger. we all know and you all said it: it's good for the consumer, it's good for the consumer's wallet and it's good for our environment. done with drawers full of cables. and if you look for one, you'll never find the right one. you've got them all there, you're gonna blow them up again, because it's a bunch of loaders we're finally gonna get rid of! that's very necessary, because did you know that in the first quarter of this year, there were 311 million smartphones sold, each with its own charger? that will be done by now. the consumer will be able to decide: yes, i buy cable, or no, i don't buy cable. besides, the environmental benefits are huge. i think sara said it too: 13,000 tons of electronic waste from unused cables that we can actually avoid. only this i must of the heart: it's too slow for me. it goes into effect in 2024. i'm ready to go in today. i think another colleague has already asked the question: is it too much power of industry or too little power of europe? i can only say, madam commissioner, try to push it a little bit more so that it will go faster and so that we will have that much-needed universal charger in our cupboard very soon!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. when the idea of a unified charging cable first came up over a decade ago, many laughed. today we are doing just that, and it is a huge success because we are showing that the last person to laugh is the one who makes the law. the eu is defending the interests of its citizens against the market power of the tech giants, with laws that protect the wallet and the environment. that's progress, because we're saving millions of charging cables. but not only that, we're making sure that every working cell phone, every working camera, is still usable in 15 or 20 years, and not just thrown away because of a lost cable. with this law, we are saving equipment from dying in the landfill and taking a giant step towards a circular economy that uses resources responsibly and eventually produces no waste and puts people before profits.
madam president, the micro—usb charger was a major eu success story and it reduced the number of incompatible chargers in the market from 30 to 3. we’ve heard this this morning. this was essential in reducing electronic waste and making life easier for our citizens, our consumers. however, the move towards a common charger is still incomplete. this directive will ensure that usb-c chargers must be the same for everything from phones to video game consoles and gadgets by 2024. most importantly, it will be applicable to all manufacturers, including apple. this directive underlines the eu’s commitment to sustainability by reducing annual electronic waste by approximately 11 000 tonnes. this is a direct request from citizens in the conference on the future of europe in the area of reducing consumption. we are here and we are listening. it will make everyday life easier for consumers and is a concrete example of a practical and positive change that our environment so desperately needs. congratulations, alex, and to your team.
madam president, commissioner and rapporteur, i’m very proud of you all. societies are digitalising and we do need to take many, many concrete steps to make it fair and sustainable. a universal charger of usb-c standard is a very good step that we are taking now after ten years of lobbying and making the world to see what the meps wanted. this is a part of the broader action to address sustainability of the electronic products and reduce e-waste. now the consumers thinks ‘is it finally’; unfortunately, two more years to wait to see it in the stores and shops. that is the deadline and parliament succeeded to add laptops, and that will take place in 2026 under the scope. altogether, six added products here was very, very good work from the rapporteur and from the parliament. so now it is altogether 14 categories of products that need to use this common charger now decided. do industry need any rules? i think the speed limitation was the most brutal one, that you didn’t get the right one if you didn’t do it. so stupid piles of chargers and wasting the resources is why we needed this one. the next steps: i get a lot of complaints that there is no common ev payment systems, so let’s think about how to make consumers life better.
madam president, commissioner, we have a magazine! a universal charger for mobile phones and all small and medium-sized electronic devices. tablets, digital cameras, game consoles, portable headphones and speakers, mice, wireless keyboards and navigation systems. it seems simple, but for more than ten years the european parliament and, in particular, the imco (internal market and consumer protection) committee have been urging the european commission and market operators to take this step. we hit the targets. this is a win-win for consumers who save money and find their lives easier. the reduction in the volume of e-waste also benefits the environment, and this is a good example of the regulatory role of the european union. without our action, this fragmentation of the market and this senseless waste would continue to exist.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of chargers has been discussed here several times in the eight years that i have been in the european parliament. i think we need to put a stop to this. there is a war raging on the eu's borders. energy prices are rising in the european union, and i think we definitely have more important things to do than talk about a single cable to charge our phones again. eu citizens rely on us to help them deal with the situations they are currently facing. and i think we need to close this debate now, to endorse the single charger and move on. ladies and gentlemen, please, let's get down to more important matters.
madam president, madam vice-president, i think today is a day when the citizens of europe will believe in us a little more. they will find that our decisions, which they often consider remote, affect them very directly in their daily lives. we're talking about the arrival of the one-size-fits-all charger for all phones, something unthinkable not so long ago. after so many years of having to look for different chargers for different phones and devices, we're finally going to see that a single charger will work for any mobile phone, but it will also work for tablets, cameras, headphones, consoles, laptops and other devices. we are not just talking about reducing waste or cutting costs. above all, it benefits all citizens, who will be able to buy their phones with or without a charger and will not have to carry different chargers. besides, it's going to be done in a reasonable amount of time. in nine months it will be in effect for most devices. this measure shows once again that parliament is contributing to the greater well-being of europeans and that we are continuing to invest in new technologies. and that is a path we must not abandon. - i'm not going to the hospital.
madam president, vice-president vestager, in politics progress can be reflected in critical changes in the lives of our citizens, and today the introduction of the single charger for mobile phones, computers, gaming machines, including apple devices from 2024, is an important step towards making sustainable products the norm and not the interesting exceptions. it took more than a decade to have the significant success we have today. but you all understand in this room, and certainly the consumers watching us, the citizens watching us, that we are running out of time, neither in environmental terms nor in economic terms. the regulation on sustainable products, which i have the honour to refer to on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, creates the scope for the production and sale of mainly sustainable products that will be repaired, reused and recycled. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of the loss of their right to a free movement of goods is a very good one. the future is sustainable, as long as it doesn't take us another 15 years to get there.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has taken us about ten years, but we have finally arrived, at last a universal charger! so let's not hide our pleasure in the gray of the environment. i have the same feeling as five years ago when we abolished roaming charges and consequently reduced telephone bills. our role in both cases has been to defend the interests of european consumers' rights. but this is also an environmental victory. in fact, 54 mobile phones are sold every second worldwide, or 1.7 billion a year, and that's the same number of chargers. it is easy to imagine the thousands of tonnes of waste generated by these devices. we all have a drawer full of chargers at home that we don't know what to do with. i would like to congratulate the negotiators, and in particular our colleague alex agius saliba, on this great victory.
madam president, this is a very positive development and it has caught people’s attention. people understand it will save them money and reduce clutter in their homes. they also appreciate that electronic waste is a massive problem and it does urgently need to be tackled. people have also welcomed the common charger proposal because they are tired of consumerism. they are tired of consumerism in general, and in particular tired of the kind of pointless, unnecessary and utterly destructive consumerism that means the eu vastly exceeds its own planetary boundaries still. this is a first step. we also urgently need a legally binding right to repair, and legislative measures to halve food waste by 2030. the parliament’s report on the eu’s circular economy action plan called on the commission to propose targets to significantly reduce the eu’s material and consumption footprints by 2030 and bring them within planetary boundaries by 2050. this was a radical demand, but when will the commission act?
madam president, roma experience significant inequalities and marginalisation in ireland and across the eu due to their exclusion from mainstream society. our health services are failing roma communities because of the lack of insurance, discrimination by health professionals and segregation in health care facilities. roma women in particular experience multiple forms of discrimination and gender—based violence, affecting both their physical and mental health. we cannot continue with this ‘out of sight and out of mind’ attitude when it comes to the position of minority groups. we need to break the cycle of disadvantage. i am encouraged by the projects like the roma health project in ireland, a dedicated initiative to tackle roma health inequalities. their work ensures that there is no danger of segregation. the commission and the member states need to implement the eu roma strategic framework, which aims to give all roma equal opportunity. we need to eradicate any form of structural and institutional anti—roma policies that we discuss here, in this house, and ensure full equality in areas such as housing and health care, including mental health care. i want to acknowledge the work commissioner dalli does on this in her mandate, as well as my colleagues here, on the floor, for this incredibly important time that we make an equal europe for all, not just some.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. three months ago, as part of a mission of the committee on regional development, i visited a roma settlement in eastern slovakia. my colleague younous omarjee has already raised this. what we found there was astounding: at least 300 people without running water, without a sewage system, with limited access to health care and education, with no way to transport children to school, and in the middle of europe. and it makes a difference whether we're debating it here or whether you're seeing it with your own eyes. this settlement in slovakia, as has been said many times today, is not an isolated case. there are still far too many so-called segregated places where people have to live in conditions that are unlivable. why would you do that? because individual local politicians are often reluctant to implement so-called pro-roma projects, even though there is enough eu funding available. why would you do that? because anti-gypsyism and structural racism are still widespread. it is a vicious circle from which the people affected, european citizens, will find it difficult to escape, and it must not be. this is a disgrace to europe. social and structural discrimination against roma and sinti must finally be fought decisively. and a non-binding eu framework strategy and a commission recommendation are not enough. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be given more time to prepare their national strategies and to monitor their implementation at local level. and we have to make sure that eu money really gets to where it is needed most.
madam president, i welcome this debate and the resolution that goes with it – of course i do. anything that gets the massive discrimination, repression and systemic exclusion faced by roma onto the agenda has to be welcomed – and it’s not nonsense, and it’s not political correctness. i know many irish travellers. they’ve been educated with my daughter. they live in my community. they’re in our parliament in ireland. i am delighted that this is so. but i have to say that debates like this are depressing because they just highlight the gap between speech and action. sometimes it’s like shouting into a void. nothing changes. in 2019, the irish government published its irish traveller accommodation expert review. it was supposed to be the grand new beginning, following years of disastrous traveller accommodation in ireland; it produced 32 recommendations. as of june this year, only six have been implemented. you could paper the walls in here and in the irish parliament with the likes of these resolutions, but nothing changes for the 6 million roma and travellers who go on suffering outrageously. i don’t know what the solution is, but we do need to figure it out fast!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when any group of people, including the roma, receives significantly more social assistance from the budget than they pay into the budget through their work, then such a situation provokes animosity among other citizens and discrimination does not decrease, but increases. and indeed, in today's labor shortage, a person who can work but doesn't want to work doesn't even need to receive welfare. that is why i support any effort to better integrate roma into the labour market. but, for example, roma in croatia who are working, when they have their fourth or fifth child, they quit because it doesn't pay to work anymore. so member states often demotivate roma to work and allow crimes among roma that they normally do not allow when, for example, child benefits are spent by fathers and roma children are thus discriminated against. so if we want the well-being of the roma, then we need to be aware that as long as we think that we are the ones who will increase the socioeconomic status of the roma, we will not be successful. we must enable and motivate roma to raise their socioeconomic status themselves.
dear colleagues, this is certainly not the first time we have discussed the situation of roma in the european union. we have a plan, but i would like to draw attention to something that has emerged from this debate. i saw that the rapporteur and other colleagues have also named eastern countries as those that discriminate against roma. my country has been mentioned here many times, along with slovakia, along with bulgaria. don't you think that roma citizens are citizens and they are europeans and they are allowed to live where they want - freedom of movement? i ask, and this is not the first time i have asked: why is france taking roma citizens on board and sending them to romania or bulgaria? why don't they integrate them? why are these people, who have their right to choose where to live, sent to the eastern countries, which are poorer, and why are there no budgets to integrate them into the country where these citizens have chosen to go? because if we continue like this, with this segregation, to send all the roma to the eastern countries, obviously we will never succeed, because these people have the same rights as citizens in every country.
madam president, in march this year, the european committee of social rights (ecsr) determined that ireland was in breach of article 16 of the revised european social charter, a binding human rights treaty, for a chronic failure to provide sufficient accommodation for travellers and maintain adequate conditions of existing sites. the ecsr also ruled that ireland was in breach of the charter as a significant number of local authority tenants resided in inadequate and substandard housing conditions. since 2000, eur 69 million earmarked for traveller housing hasn’t been spent. it continues today. we are still underspending the money that’s earmarked for them. the questions posed by the employment and social rights committee to the commission are good, but it is difficult to have faith in the commission holding member states to account given how long traveller and roma people have had to endure these chronic failures and the weakness of the eu roma strategic framework. we talk forever in here about human rights. but you know what? until we start treating all the people in the same way, we should shut up about human rights because we are only been hypocrites.
madam president, so we finally have some proposals now for action on the rule of law conditionality mechanism, though whether it’ll actually come to anything or not is very much an open question. because, to be honest, there is plenty of wriggle room for hungary to escape sanctions. so i really will believe this when i see it. but of course, the escape valves in the proposal aren’t the only notable thing about this; poland is also glaringly absent. the fact that poland isn’t even in the crosshairs on this one tells you something, because all along the idea of this regulation was to try and deal with the rule-of-law problems in hungary and poland. but the polish government’s abuse of the rule of law, of minorities, of women, of judges, of eu funds and all the rest of it has been conveniently left out for the moment. it’s got its resilience and recovery fund money released in the summer, despite loud protests from civil society and judges in poland. and hungary, of course, is not getting its. the only possible reason for these wretched double standards is a geopolitical one, because hungary has taken a different attitude to russia. and i think that is shameful for all of those in poland who are suffering from violations of rule of law, not to mention those in spain, bulgaria and france as well.
madam president, i’m not a fan of orbán, but then i’m not a fan of any other leader either. in fact, i’ve never seen a government that i like. i think the idea of respecting freedom of expression and respecting human rights is very important. if there’s things not being done, if behaviour is poor anywhere, we should criticise it, but i think it’s very important that we do so evenly and consistently – and i don’t see that. right now today, freedom of expression is under threat in europe – anyone that criticises the general narrative to the war – and there are people that have been arrested for expressing their opinion when that doesn’t suit the agenda. human rights. we talked about the roma this morning. the roma have never been given human rights across europe. we have a housing crisis in many countries of europe. so many people are being denied the human right to a house. we don’t treat the poor people of europe well. we don’t respect their human rights. when are we going to become consistent in how we approach these problems?
mr president, high representative, women in iran are fighting for their fundamental rights, their freedom. the shocking and unlawful death of a young woman of 22, mahsa amini, is a stark reminder of the abuse and violence women face every day from the regressive iranian regime. women and men have rightly taken to the streets to protest at the barbaric and honestly sickening treatment of women by the iranian state and their so-called morality police. what morality, i ask? whose values? whose morals? certainly not women’s. we in this chamber must join the iranian people and condemn this use of violence against women. and the continued use of such disproportionate violence against protesters is abhorrent and emblematic of such an autocratic regime. we must support women to have choice in the way that they live. we must support the fundamental rights of all women to live life as they see fit, free from state—sponsored violence. the stories emerging are really totally unacceptable. they are dreadful, and i urge the high representative to do everything in his power to take action against the state in a united way across europe. like so many of the women of iran, mahsa was brave and courageous. we must ensure that her death was not in vain.
mr president, mahsa amini and the women of iran are incredibly powerful. we’ve seen this at first hand, in large part because of the instantaneous connection we all have through social media, and the bravery of our trusted and free journalists. the young women of iran have grown up in an age of digitalisation, of connectivity, and because of this, are connected to the rest of the world in a way that older generations could never imagine. they explore, they learn, they decide for themselves. they hear the voices and see the faces of fellow change—makers their own age. they are powerful. we are living in a time – thankfully – where young leaders are standing strong for their rights, for their freedoms, for their future. they too see fundamental rights are to be protected. mahsa amini should never have lost her life to hateful ideology. never. while the iranian government works to cut these brave young women off from the rest of the world, we see what they are fighting for. these women will not be silenced. no woman should ever be. their protests are fundamentally changing the course of history for the generations to come. we here in europe stand with you in the spirit of mahsa amini.
mr president, commissioner, who is interested in the destabilisation of africa and in particular the sahel region? african peoples certainly are not. the reports we receive daily on the deterioration of the political, humanitarian and human rights situation are very worrying. we cannot therefore fail to condemn the coup d'état in burkina faso on 30 september, the second coup d'état in that country in the last eight months. this is a clear condemnation which has also been expressed by the un, the african union and the economic community of west african states, ecowas. the military action carried out without any constitutional framework calls into question the efforts made, in particular by ecowas, to ensure a transition to constitutional order by 2024. at the same time, it creates further humanitarian and survival difficulties in a country where, according to international agencies, 25% of the population is in urgent need of aid. so, commissioner, it is worth asking again: who is interested in the destabilisation of africa and in particular of the sahel region? and if the answer is, as all indications suggest, that it is in the interest of the opponents of democracy and the rule of law, then it is essential that the european union and the international community strengthen their cooperation in combating terrorism in its various forms in burkina faso and the sahel. that the conditions be restored so that a new constitution can continue to be drafted and adopted, in the framework of the transitional process under way, responding to the legitimate aspirations of the people of this country to have strong and solid democratic institutions. and finally, that political actors and civil society be encouraged to get involved in the resumption of the transition process through dialogue and participation, creating conditions for the country to overcome the difficult political, economic and social moment it is experiencing.
the commission has already done so. i stood on this very spot three quarters of a year ago, and i called for a decision on urgency at the time, saying that if we are to succeed at all, we must bring power back to a democratic basis. that's not what happened. lieutenant colonel damiba then staged a coup in january and promised to restore security by september. instead, if we cross-check today: widespread human rights violations, the extremists have even more access, refugees up to 10% - we heard it - , severe food insecurity in the country and lack of government structures. apart from the fact that the time factor was of course completely unrealistic to actually break through this knot of conflict, the reaction we have now is of course absolutely counterproductive. because we have the coup in the coup, and captain traoré has pushed himself to the top of the state to achieve exactly what his predecessor wanted to achieve. but even worse, this is the very rotten cherry on the very bad cream: traoré is looking for new partners in the fight against islamist terrorism and may find them in russia. prigoschin, the founder of the bloodthirsty wagner group, has already applauded over the weekend. we'll have a good idea of where this is going. military governments are not in the country's best interest at the end of the day, and certainly not with russia's support. that is why we must now, in the short term, first of all achieve a de-escalation of the overall situation. and for all people, citizens, soldiers and soldiers, we must achieve physical safety and also respect for basic human rights. the most important objective, however, is to return to a constitutional order in which people can freely choose the destiny of their country. i am not going to change my mind: we do not have to take over for burkina faso, but the eu should actively accompany and support burkina faso in this process. and i plead for it.
mr president, instability, coups and french embassies being set on fire in former french colonies are becoming a bit more regular. existing contradictions are being exacerbated by the sanctions on russia, by the continuation of the war and by the inflationary spiral; by the climate crisis, by neo-colonial structures of exploitation, such as the french colonial franc system where france still receives a colonial tax from 14 former colonies – to loan them back their own money with high interest rates when ensuring government contracts to french companies. when not toppling leaders in the region who fought for independence and pan-africanism, france and the west are presiding over prolonged neo-colonial theft that has meant governance structures are basically non-existent in the rural areas of these former colonies. instead of addressing the crisis through debt cancellation or reversing neoliberal restructuring and privatisation, the west responds with militarism that has worsened the security situation. if the eu won’t take its foot off the necks of these people, sooner or later, they will be forced to do so.
on behalf of the vpc/hr. – mr president, honourable members, i want to thank you for the quality of this debate and also for your analysis at such short notice. i think it was very important to have this debate with you today. as i said in my introduction, we will definitely assess the developments and our relations on this basis. i can tell that i have myself visited burkina faso twice as a commissioner. i have been following the development of that country very carefully, and i have to say that i feel sad in order to see the latest development what happened in the beginning of this year, but also the latest coup, which took place this this week. i think these discussions will also continue in parallel with member states – and it was also highlighted by you – since there will be an exchange on this matter on thursday 5 october at the political and security committee. i fully agree with you that it is important to try to coordinate with our member states on our position regarding burkina, but also what kind of action and support we will provide to burkina in the future. so, as mentioned in the introduction and as called for by you this evening, we will do our utmost to maintain our strong support to the people of burkina faso. so in any case, we will definitely maintain our strong support to the people of burkina faso. this is our very strong commitment.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr fabio massimo castaldo, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu's strategic relations and partnership with the horn of africa (2021/2206 (ini)) (a9-0207/2022).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear commissioner urpilainen, i would like to begin by thanking all of you, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs for the valuable cooperation that has characterised our work, as well as all the policy advisors and assistants. without them it would not have been possible to present a report as ambitious as the one we are voting on tomorrow. in a world context as complex, changing and unstable as today's, it seems indispensable to talk about africa. i believe that this is the main strategic direction for our union and that the relaunch of relations between our continent and africa will be a major factor in our chances of becoming a credible and reliable global geopolitical player. the horn of africa is undoubtedly a region of the greatest geostrategic importance. let us consider the importance of the strait of hormuz, which is one of the four most important transit routes in the world. in fact, about one sixth of the world's oil trade, one third of the world's gas trade, and a considerable percentage of global shipping traffic pass through the straits. but this is also a region that is at the center of a perfect storm: the disruption of imports caused by the conflict in ukraine and high prices of raw materials and grain combine with one of the worst droughts in decades, ultimately leading to climate change that is much more severe than elsewhere. all of these factors now present us with a picture of some 20 million people struggling with famine and food insecurity in one of the worst humanitarian crises in recent years. the situation is further aggravated by a series of active or latent conflicts and by persistent socio-political instability, which are creating immense suffering among the population, with an ever-increasing number of displaced persons and refugees. in short, we have all the elements necessary and the opportunities for our action to focus on this region and give it the attention it deserves, also because other actors, who are certainly far from our values and approach, have already forged deep multi-domain relations there. firstly, china, with its military and diplomatic presence and economic cooperation with various countries, russia, with its disinformation and propaganda policies and its plans for a naval base in sudan, not to mention the interference of private security companies such as the wagner group, and turkey and the gulf states. it is therefore essential to rethink our approach to the region, making concrete use of comparative advantages and establishing mutually beneficial relations, precisely based on consistent and timely dialogue and consultation, thus overcoming the paternalistic approach that has often been the leitmotif of our work. it will therefore be necessary to foster local ownership of the programmes launched, with the aim of finding african solutions to african problems, as the motto of the african union states, with which we should cooperate in a widespread way, and at the same time to foster a bottom-up approach, supporting the role of civil society. we need to be more present. i would also like to thank my colleagues who have been on missions to addis ababa and khartoum. the ecological and energy transition we are undertaking as a union would represent a great added value for the countries of the region, but it cannot and must not be imposed, but must be promoted and supported by a constructive dialogue, based on the sharing of best practices of european know-how in the fields of interest. ladies and gentlemen, there can be no development in the face of conflict and instability. not only that. it is necessary to recognize that insecurity in the horn of africa represents a very serious threat to the prospects of the entire continent, as well as to regional security and to the european union as a whole. this requires a holistic, integrated approach that promotes the concept of human security and the link between humanitarian assistance, development cooperation and peace, by strengthening the strategic partnership on conflict prevention and resolution and by supporting all those mediation and reconciliation processes that are indispensable in the region. this and much more is the subject of the report and tomorrow we will therefore be able to send a strong and clear message to the commission and the council about the need and the urgency of doing our part in the horn of africa, because africa has been, is and will always be the mirror of our geopolitics. it's up to us to decide what image we want to be reflected in it.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, this debate is a timely opportunity to discuss the horn of africa, also on behalf of the hr/vp borrell. two years ago, this region was economically growing and politically rather stable. unfortunately, today we cannot say the same. as your report rightly points out, the horn of africa is a region of strategic importance, where we also face competitors that do not share the same values nor interests. in the current geopolitical context it adds to the difficulties. we must remain engaged, including on global challenges such as the food crisis. i will now focus on four countries that are currently high on the eu’s agenda. with kenya, we launched this year a strategic dialogue to deepen our relationship along three strands: security, sustainable development, trade and investment. the elections on 9 august were a crucial moment and president ruto, whom the hr/vp met a few weeks ago, praised the work carried out by the eu’s electoral observation mission. we were also pleased to hear the president’s determination to take our bilateral agenda forward, and our teams are already working together in that regard. the european parliament’s role will be essential. the conclusion of the economic partnership agreement is a priority for the new president and we should do everything to deliver on this file. in somalia, the election of president hassan sheikh mohamud opens a new page. the hr/vp travelled to mogadishu to encourage him to deliver on political security and economic reforms. on security, we need to work together to allow the african union’s mission to hand over responsibilities to the somali security forces. the eu common security and defence policy engagements in somalia were a major topic of discussion. in ethiopia, the resumption of hostilities in northern ethiopia after a five-month humanitarian truce leave us very concerned. we have been clear in our key demands from the very beginning of the conflict. the eu has denounced a traumatic humanitarian situation and asked for humanitarian access. we have also been working with like-minded partners and encouraging all parties to immediately end the fighting and engage in peace negotiations. we should keep up our efforts and intensify our response as needs be while we continue our support to the ethiopian people through special measures. we must help to strengthen an african solution to this african crisis and prevent a further regionalisation of the conflict. we welcome also the delegation of meps who were last month in addis ababa to convey similar messages. and, very briefly, in sudan, the country is locked in a political impasse. the recent initiatives by civilian forces offer a window of opportunity for the military and political forces to reach an agreement on the way forward. however, we cannot exclude a purely tactical support of the military leaders who pretend they will hand over power immediately if civilians find consensus. the recent visit of the ep’s afet meps to khartoum was important to show that the democratic transition in sudan remains high on the eu’s agenda. i really look forward to our exchange.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, commissioner urpilainen, as you just mentioned, a delegation of the foreign affairs committee travelled to ethiopia and sudan just two weeks ago, and we were able to observe first-hand that insecurity in the horn of africa is a serious threat to the prospects of the whole of africa, as well as to our own security in the european union. coming back from these two countries, i would like to share a number of observations, perhaps six actions which i believe are key. first, we need to tackle the root causes of conflicts, extremism and radicalisation, such as terrorism, extreme poverty, the consequences of climate change and long—standing border disputes. second, we need to strengthen the eu-csdp missions and operations and to support peace processes under african ownership. third, we need to support all diplomatic efforts towards ending the ongoing conflict within ethiopia. fourth, we need to counter russian influence, such as the activities of the paramilitary wagner group in sudan, as it has the potential to further destabilise the region. fifth, we need to address the dependency of african states on chinese investments. and six, we need to monitor very closely the total alignment of eritrea with the russian narrative and russian propaganda. as fabio castaldo pointed out, the horn of africa is strategically important, and thus the european union needs to strengthen its role in the region. together with international and regional partners, let us integrate the trade, the development, the humanitarian and the conflict—prevention approaches to tackle the enormous challenges in this region.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the horn of africa, which is a region of the world where the problems of the region are interconnected and intertwined. in sudan, the wave of protests calling for the return of civilian rule following the military coup has added to the dire economic situation in a country that is already one of the poorest in the world, and where the price of bread has risen tenfold since the coup, plunging the population into extreme poverty. ethiopia, as we have said, is in the midst of a civil war, which has led to a humanitarian crisis in the tigray region, but also in the amhara and afar regions. the security situation in somalia remains precarious and is a potential destabiliser for the whole region. these are just a few examples of the political situation in this region of over 100 million people, which is also experiencing the worst climate emergency in the last 40 years. after several successive seasons of drought, severe water shortages and crop failures, almost 20 million people are now at risk of hunger in ethiopia, kenya, somalia and eritrea. thousands of families have lost everything - their fields and livestock - leaving them without a means of livelihood. yet the horn of africa is also one of the world's most important oil-producing straits. every day, about 52 ships carrying 5 million barrels of oil pass through the strait. finally, this part of africa is characterised by a series of lucrative trafficking operations (arms, drugs, human beings) between the west and the east of the continent. so we need to focus on that area. this is a priority for us europeans. mr castaldo has outlined all the actions in the report, which i ask you to support fully, because of course the african people are involved, but so is europe's stability vis-à-vis africa.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, the horn of africa report refuses to acknowledge that the eu was even partially responsible for the problems in the region. it condescendingly assumes that african nations’ lack of support for the nato proxy war with russia is down to russian propaganda and not governments making a rational choice not to pick sides in a new cold war. the report talks about aid to alleviate potential famines and other disasters when we know full well our sanctions and unwillingness to pursue peace are creating the very humanitarian disasters we say we want to alleviate. the report suggests that we consider encouraging member states to look at debt cancellation. ‘consider encouraging’ will do nothing for countries crushed with debt obligations that siphons to the north any public money that could be used to shore up climate and famine defences. and we condemn the call for increased border security and militarisation. is there any interest in putting a stop to neocolonial extraction and theft? we give them a basket of bread for aid and then we robbed their field of corn.
i have to say, madam president, the time is probably right now to redefine or strengthen long-term strategic ties because of russia's war of aggression, which is against international law, and the horn of africa is certainly a region of particular importance. we cannot leave the situation at the horn to russia and china and others. this is ultimately in europe's strategic and long-term interests. if you don't understand that, you haven't understood the situation in 2022. we europeans cannot sleep now. we need to proactively go out into the world and really advocate and fight for our belief in human coexistence. democracy, human rights, freedom, equality, freedom of the press and of expression, these are all things that do people good and ultimately make them flourish. and dictatorship, autocracy and terrorism, all of which lead in the end only to suffering, despair and hopelessness. but what is crucial is that we need a genuine partnership on equal footing with our african partners across all policy areas, which this report also represents. we can help and support. but in the end, we need an african solution to african problems. we can't know any better, we have to do it together.
madam president, i don’t think you’d have to be a genius to know that the last thing the horn of africa needs is more foreign military bases, more weapons, and more european meddling. what we call our ‘strategic relationship’ isn’t about human flourishing; it’s about the eu’s ambitions as a superpower. there’s now a new great game in the horn of africa. greater and lesser powers are pockmarking the place with military bases: france, the us, china, germany, japan, italy, saudi arabia all have a presence in the tiny area of djibouti alone. mercenaries are swarming in from all quarters. the entire region is being militarised. war is in the air. and what about the people facing climate and food insecurity? none of this benefits them. we talk about instability, but we only make it worse. we flood the place with weapons, hand over the profits to european arms companies, and charge the bill to our citizens. and then with the carnage, we go back in and we do it all again. it’s a racket! ‘strategic relationship’? it’s one thing after another, isn’t it? really, it’s the same as it ever was. and all i can say is, god save africa from europeans offering help.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, credit suisse, the private investment bank, has the following extract on its website: ‘water is a focus for those in the know about global strategic commodities. as with oil, the supply is finite, but demand is going up by leaps and unlike oil there is no alternative.’ water is scarce, but the profits aren’t. of course, this is the root of the problem – the commodification of water for profit rather than for human needs. that’s why we’ve had the huge movements from bolivia to detroit, to greece, berlin, madrid, rome and many others around the issue of water. that’s why we had the heroic struggle in ireland in the right2water campaign, where we forced our government to abandon its privatisation plans. we continue to have a situation of no charge and no water poverty, although that obviously can change at any time. during that campaign, the un advisor on water, maude barlow, made the point that ireland’s system of paying for water through progressive taxation with a user fee for only non-domestic users was an exemplary model of fair, equitable and sustainable service delivery for the world. that is what we stand by, and we will defend that with everything that we have.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. nothing helps children as directly as good water policy. no problem is so doubled as bad water policy. that is, water is very special if we see it as a fundamental right, a human right, a child's right. it's about health, it's about nutrition, even in infants, it's about physical and mental development -- all of this is based on good water. but it's also about the dignity of children -- the dignity of children to be able to wash, to be able to clean themselves. i would also like to mention specifically the girls when they have their periods. it's also about educating children, because children need schools, and schools need good water. all of this is connected. water protection is the most direct form of child protection we can imagine. and we have four tasks: we have to make water available, we have to make water accessible, and we have to do it in a way that is affordable, that is of good quality, and that is stable and reliable, even after droughts, even after floods, even when there are other problems. water protection is direct child protection.
madam president, i welcome many aspects of this report, especially the strong emphasis on environmentalism. but we need to focus more on the problem of privatisation, which is prolific – with over 10% of global freshwater reserves being under private control. in ireland, as my colleague pointed out, we fought against water charges for years. it is a neoliberal measure firmly promoted by the commission as a bailout condition in 2012. we were doing what we were told on a vast basis at the time. this profit—orientated neoliberal practice severely limited access to water and sanitation services – which, as many of you agree, is a human right, and this will further add to the problem of water shortages, which has already disproportionately affected the global south. while there have been steps to recognise water as a primary public good within the union, with the right2water initiative, not enough has been done to stop its privatisation in the eu and beyond.
mr. chairman, ukraine has been fighting bravely against russian aggression since the beginning of the war in 2014. ukrainian citizens, regardless of their ethnic background, are selflessly defending their country. all the expectations of the aggressor in the kremlin that their victory would happen quickly, did not come true. the ukrainian counteroffensive has forced putin to resort to mad measures, trampling on elementary international and moral norms, to illegally annex the territories of a neighboring state - sovereign and independent, recognized by the un in the borders in which it exists, recognized by the russian federation itself with the guarantees it gives with the budapest memorandum. the atomic card game is another irresponsible escalation of tension and blackmail. the european union and its member states are obliged to continue with massive support for ukraine military, financial, intelligence, economic, infrastructure, medical, humanitarian. ukraine's desire for nato membership must be respected. it was shameful behavior of the previous bulgarian government of petkov, which did not support sending military equipment to ukraine. fellow leftists, this was done for the benefit of your party. it is sad that bulgaria did not join the position of the central and eastern european countries on the topic of "ukraine and nato", even though the vast majority of bulgarians voted for pro-european parties in sunday's elections. bulgaria needs a stable pro-european government now. gerb will ensure that and will do everything possible to make that happen.
mr president, colleagues, putin, in fact, is what we witness in this very room. we were never as united as during this debate. and this unity from one debate to another is more and more visible. even alexandr vondra was positive this time. there are, of course, some shameful exceptions, but they are not even worth mentioning them. the determination of our leaders to support ukraine is also more clear from day to day, week to week, month to month than what we heard from roberta metsola, josep borrell, ursula von der leyen is one voice or the voices that complete each other. member states, citizens, we all must follow. it is not even those words. it is not only words because they became facts, actions or very clear plans for the future and of such a european union, i am really proud. only so, by strengthening our policies, we strengthen also our sovereignty. not only we need to be sovereign, but also ukraine needs a strong, united, sovereign ready to pay the price, because we know that otherwise the price will be much higher.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think people are really very afraid this time. they are afraid because they see that this escalation is not wanted by just one side, but by both sides. so they are not just afraid of putin and his threats. they're afraid of us westerners, too. i want to read back a statement biden made in february before the russian invasion: "if russia invades ukraine, we will bring down nord stream and make sure it doesn't exist". these statements are frightening and confusing, because it is not clear where they are taking us. and it is not clear what the european union really wants to do, since no head of state or head of government has really taken a step towards peace. i believe that the european union must play a third role in order to stop this war in the interests of all. the only head of state who had the courage to say something in this direction was the pope: putin stops the war and zelensky is open to serious peace proposals. so, colleagues, i urge you, let us at least listen to the pope's words.
mr president, the escalation of putin's war, with the mobilization of reservists, illegal annexations, nuclear threats, requires the european union to be more united than ever and to support ukraine systematically. that is why we must ask the s&d group, the greens and the liberals what their position is on the unilateral action of the scholz government, the liberal green socialist government, to give 200 billion euros without any coordination, without any coordination with the european union and its partners for energy subsidies, destroying confidence between the states and fragmenting the single market. yes, i want to ask mrs iraxte pérez: what is the position of s&d group on scholz's decision to take action alone giving eur 200 billion of subsidies against all the coordination with our partners?
mr president, europe has a common and share a common understanding and it’s very clear we stand with ukraine to help it defend its territory, each square meter, and to stay a sovereign state. we need to make the world see that any threat to russians is from their own president. it’s not from nato, the eu or europe, it’s their president who will threaten their morality, economical stand, and sending men to ukraine to kill ukrainians. but in this war we have on our continent, we also need to protect the rest of europe. security is the highest priority – whether it’s an energy crisis or is it unbearable prices, the lack of energy because of so much reducing energy from russia. it is a cold winter to manage if we don’t succeed with the savings too. i welcome the word from the commission president to raise the protection of all the critical infrastructure. and also i welcome the words and general guidelines for visa issue, the commission statement that every member state should take into account the security when issuing visas to russians.
mr president, commissioner, minister, the sabotage of the baltic gas pipeline, the illegal referendums and regional alliances in europe, the repeated massacres of civilians and the threat of nuclear weapons - everyone knows who is behind these horrors. we in europe must concentrate on solving this crisis rather than on internal blame. the sooner we do, the more winners we'll have. if this cruel war teaches us anything, it is that we must no longer build new dependencies on dictatorships. the green transition is of central importance for european self-sufficiency, but it must not be our only sacred truth. we have to look after our own security of supply. this means a wide energy palette, for which the commission's attempts to limit the production of bioenergy are not appropriate. above all, we must continue to support ukraine. the more russia does the lesser things, the higher the unity of europe will rise. when differences of opinion arise over energy or, say, visas, the eu's ranks are shaken. we cannot afford that and therefore we must be able to take more united decisions.
mr president, a cold winter lies ahead for putin and his cronies. russia’s attempts this week to illegally annex four regions in ukraine have been rightfully condemned. this is an age of hybrid warfare, and the nord stream attacks reminds us that we are vulnerable. i am encouraged by the plan presented by the commission president this morning to protect our critical infrastructure. but i am concerned about the security of our infrastructure, our underground cables, particularly off the coast of my own country, ireland. these cables are crucial to the functioning of europe’s digital services. and a recent report found that the irish defence forces cannot adequately protect them. so we need to urgently invest in our defence capacity, in cybersecurity and in defending our crucial infrastructure at this perilous time.
mr president, colleagues, the war has entered a critical new stage, with new victories from our brave and fighting ukrainians every day. ukrainian forces are advancing and regaining strategically important cities. yet, as ukraine advance, putin ups his brinkmanship. the annexation by russia of four ukrainian regions last week further signified a deepening of his war efforts. his ruthlessness is exemplified by harrowing images of ukrainians forced to vote at gunpoint and, of course, the shocking images of recently released prisoners of war. so too, the explosion within the nord stream 2 pipeline and the threat of the use of nuclear weapons. we too in ireland must defend our crucial infrastructure off the coast. the threat draws closer. democracy can prevail in ukraine, but only with united support and i mean united – right across europe, on all fronts. absolute support on sanctions. ukrainians are fighting for our values, our democracies. they fight for us.
mr president, commissioner, let me start with a call. we all know what happens if conservatives help fascists into power. i urge you, conservatives, to learn from history, do not enable a post—fascist and putin—friendly government in italy. yes, it’s the extreme right party, several extreme right parties, where we know that they have ties to russia, where we know there were financial implications, loans and so on with russia. but the polarisation through fake news and ads on social media, the polarisation of our society serves all far right parties and are distracting our elections – our democratic election systems – in the european union. we have to be aware of that. but we also have to acknowledge that many of our politicians, from the conservatives, from the social democrats, even from the liberals, were driving us into this dangerous dependency on russian gas. some of them even profited personally by serving as employees of russian companies. okay, this was the past. but i think after 24 february, after the invasion of russia into ukraine, we should all be very clear – putin is using disinformation and fake news for polarisation. putin is using the extreme right, and putin is also using some of our prominent political figures for his asymmetric war. epp, you have nothing to win by supporting post—fascists. come back to the cordon sanitaire and please start with not supporting a post—fascist and pro—putin government in italy.
mr president, the war in ukraine is quickly escalating into a wider horror. and from what i can see, practically nobody in this chamber is doing anything to prevent it. in fact most people seem to get off on the fact that it’s escalating. and at this precise moment, of course, as usual, the voices challenging the rush to war are attacked and silenced, smeared as traitors, cronies, putin puppets, kremlin stooges, russian agents. frankly, it’s pathetic. and i don’t make the comparison lightly, but the crudeness and cynicism of these slurs coming from mainstream eu parties might as well have been written by hermann göring, who infamously said that even though people never want war, they can be brought to war with threats and smears. he said all you have to do is tell them they’re being attacked, denounce the pacifists for lack of patriotism and exposing their country to danger – it works the same every way. where he led, you are following. this house should be ashamed of this debate. words are being twisted, meanings subverted, and the truth turned on its head. opposing the horrible madness of war is not anti—european, it’s not anti—ukrainian, it’s not pro-russian: it’s common sense. the working class of europe have nothing to gain from this war and everything to lose. and i find it laughable that those calling for arms to ukraine never call for arms for the people of palestine, or for the people of yemen. unlike you, i oppose all war. i want it stopped. i make no apology for that. and i am not going to be scapegoated and labelled for it either.
mr president, the european union has been under pressure from disinformation from inside and outside, not just from russia, for a long time. if you look at the russian budget, you see that the very department that is responsible for disinformation is increasing its budget every year. not that we're doing nothing about it, but i think we need to do more to combat russian disinformation in particular. i must remind you of the proposal we discussed here last term, which i tabled, on the inadmissibility of the financing of national political parties by third countries. this bill didn't pass. and what do we see in the long run? unfortunately, in most eu member states, you will find one, even more parties that have undoubted russian funding. this is an unacceptable state of affairs, and we must deal with russian propaganda once and for all, expel it from our governments, expel it from our political parties, expel it from our offices, and be united.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this rich and at times passionate debate. the only real security concern that russia is facing is our model society, our democracy, and our way of life. this is what they fear, and this is what they’re fighting against in ukraine. defending our democracies includes defending the foundations on which they stand: media freedom, open discourse, and informed decisions by voters. we are acting on all these fronts. we are fighting disinformation with everything we’ve got, but more is yet to come. we shall come forward before next summer with a defence of democracy package, which will address the problem of foreign agents and review the european democracy action plan, notably ensuring it is still fit for purpose regarding the fight against disinformation. but we should also ask ourselves collectively a question: why is disinformation so easily possible in europe? why is it so easy to seduce europeans with toxicity, with ideas that are spread through propaganda campaigns using decades old manipulation tools, and to disseminate lies so quickly? why are we so lacking in resilience? where is the immunity we should collectively have as a union of democracies? i think that these are real questions we should be asking ourselves these days, and we should try to seek remedies and solutions. the quest for a more resilient european society is more pressing than ever before, and we can indeed look around and take examples from countries like finland, for example, where a robust democratic education system helps people not to become victims of propaganda and to acquire resilience, defence and immunity. i agree with guy verhofstadt when he says that we should also do more with our partners, that our partners should and can do more – especially some of them who are eu candidate countries. they cannot be at the same time with us and with those who are aiming to harm us. the moment of truth is coming. our people will not understand that in these difficult times, some of our eu countries that aspire to be members of the family can act on both boats. if they forget it, let me assure you that we shall remind them of this obligation.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, vice—president of the commission, honourable members, today’s debate shows once again the complexity of the interference in our democratic life. we must continue to work on strengthening our resilience while also clearly showing that we will not accept actions against our right to have an information space free from manipulation. we will continue to take active and determined actions against it. the council as a whole attaches particular importance to protecting our democratic processes, institutions and societies from any foreign interference, be it information manipulation or other means. let me recall some of our actions from past month. on 2 march 2022, the council suspended the broadcasting activities of sputnik and russia today in the eu or directed at the eu until the aggression to ukraine is put to an end and until russia ceases to conduct disinformation and information manipulation actions against the eu and its member states. as you may remember, this decision has been confirmed by the european court of justice. in june 2022, the council adopted the conclusions in which it introduced a framework for a coordinated response to hybrid threats and campaigns affecting the eu member states and partners. the next step is the development of the eu hybrid toolbox, and here the work is actively ongoing under the czech presidency. it demonstrates the new level of ambition at eu level to counter hybrid threats, including foreign interference and manipulation and the war in ukraine was one of the accelerators pushing the political agenda further. in july 2022, the council adopted conclusions in which it reiterated that the eu and member states will step up their efforts to reach out to third countries in order to support ukraine in agreed dimensions and to counter the false russian narrative and manipulation of information. and concerning the sanction regime in this area, the council is, of course, willing to examine any proposal from the commission on possible extension of sanctions lists. honourable members, rest assured that the council will continue to support the joint efforts with the parliament to make progress on devising ambitious and firm european responses to the issues we have been debating today. thank you very much for your attention.
this conversation is over.
the ecr group has informed the president of the decision to change the appointments of the committee. this decision will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting and will enter into force on the day of its notification.
the next item is the declarations by the council and the commission on the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area (2022/2852 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, the schengen area is one of the greatest achievements of our union. in recent years, it has been under considerable strain. successive crises such as the 2015 migration wave, covid—19 pandemics, or the impact of the current russian war of aggression against ukraine have tested our response capacity. therefore, considerable efforts were, and continue to be, required to ensure the resilience of the schengen area. inter alia, adoption of the schengen borders code would be an important step in that direction, and the council is ready to start a trialogue as soon as possible. furthermore, the presidency considers the pending completion of the enlargement of the schengen area as a key missing element. as you are well aware, bulgaria and romania have completed the necessary conditions for the council to be able to discuss the lifting of controls at internal borders. in this context, the czech presidency is committed to making progress so as to enable bulgaria and romania to be fully part of the schengen area. more concretely, the presidency is working towards the adoption of the required council decision by unanimity at the december council. in this regard, we are engaging with member states to prepare the ground for a substantive discussion on the lifting of controls at internal borders with bulgaria and romania. in our effort to secure the necessary unanimity in the council, the presidency facilitated the expert visits in bulgaria and romania next week, as conducted by the commission. the visits, which are hosted by both member states on a voluntary basis and in the spirit of mutual trust, will ascertain the implementation of the fundamental elements of the schengen acquis. in parallel, the presidency fully supports the full schengen accession of croatia. we trust that the european parliament will issue its opinion on the matter in due time. the council will be informed about the state of play regarding the schengen enlargement process in mid—october. the completion of the schengen enlargement would constitute another milestone in the functioning of the schengen area, and the presidency remains committed to that effect, in full cooperation with the european parliament, as well as with the commission.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, dear minister, honourable members, schengen together with the euro, the single market and erasmus is one of the most emblematic achievements of the european union. schengen is the jewel in our crown. it is the largest area of borderless travel in the world, including 26 countries so far, and benefiting 420 million people. it is part of our way of life and an important element for making us feel not only nationals but also europeans. it is also one of the most travelled regions in the world. today, schengen travellers make 1.25 billion journeys in the schengen area every year. one third of our population lives in border regions and there are 3.5 million people crossing a border every day. we also count 24 million business trips per year. these are not numbers. this is the fuel of our economy. this is what fertilises our society. for the last 35 years, we have built an entire schengen architecture to better protect this borderless area without controls. we must continue to build and improve the architecture of schengen, because no system can bear the test of time without renewal. to reflect this, this year we have started an annual cycle of schengen governance, kicked off by a new ‘state of schengen’ report. the idea is to give schengen strong political direction from the commission, parliament, the council, to boost our important efforts on the ground, on border control, police cooperation, returns, visa, data protection. we will continue delivering on parts of these strategies for the next two years, strengthening them and the management of our external borders, ensuring that internal border checks are measures of last resort and strengthening internal security through reinforced police cooperation. it is key that we advance on both the operational and the legislative track. our proposal for the schengen borders code put forward in december last year will make us better prepared to handle any future crisis, ensuring free movement and incorporating the lessons that we learned during the pandemic. the new online schengen information system, complemented by other it systems, will also allow us to achieve full interoperability in europe by the end of the next year. this will be, at the time, the most advanced border protection system in the world, politically, operationally and legislatively. honourable members, it is also true that schengen has faced repeated challenges. first, the refugee crisis of 2015/2016, the pandemic, persistent terrorist threats, the instrumentalisation of migrants from authoritarian leaders at our external border, and now the war of aggression against ukraine. in spite of all these challenges, we have consistently succeeded in preserving this crown jewel of european integration thanks to the unwavering commitment amongst member states, but also of the members of this house, whom i would like to profoundly thank for their commitment to our collective schengen achievements. according to last year’s eurobarometer, our people understand this. the overwhelming support of europeans across our continent fully support schengen. honourable members, for the best part of more than four decades now, and despite these problems and challenges, the schengen area has continued growing and deepening. it is now high time it grew further. already, since 2011, the commission has been actively advocating for the completion of schengen, urging member states to rapidly take the necessary steps to allow those member states that are not yet fully part of the area to join. this will increase not only our security but also broaden our cohesion. we have made tremendous progress in the last months, with important political steps that have been taken. in december, the council recognised that croatia fulfilled all the necessary conditions for the application of all parts of the schengen acquis, and the european parliament is now to give its opinion. a lot of progress has also been made for the accession of romania and bulgaria. both countries are waiting for the decision of the council for more than 11 years now, when the commission confirmed that they fully fulfil the necessary conditions to join. in the meantime, both countries continue to actively apply the schengen acquis and contribute to our common security at the eu external border. i wish to highlight and praise both our romanian and our bulgarian partners for the manner in which they have managed the external borders in the face of the large number of refugees from ukraine. their stance was exemplary and made us all proud. it is therefore excellent news that the czech presidency here present took schengen enlargement on board as one of their main priorities. bulgaria and romania remain fully committed to continue correctly applying the schengen rules and to contributing to the proper functioning of the area as a whole. schengen is a success built on mutual trust and the proper implementation of the acquis. the new schengen evaluation and monitoring mechanism regulation is clear. the verification, in accordance with the applicable evaluation procedures concerning bulgaria, romania and croatia had already been completed. despite this, and with a truly cooperative attitude, although such verification should already have been relaunched, bulgaria and romania have invited a team coordinated by the commission to assess the application of the latest developments. this upcoming voluntary reassessment of bulgaria and romania, by means of a fact—finding mission of commission and member state experts, will take place later this month. it is a very important gesture of transparency that i salute. this is not – and i want to be very clear on this point – this is not about re-evaluating bulgaria and romania. it is rather about allowing member states to get the latest updates and reassurances that the schengen acquis is still fully applied. this team of experts will look into external border management, police cooperation, including returns, schengen and visa information systems and visa policy developments in general. but they will look equally into the fundamental rights and data protection frameworks as horizontal topics. let me conclude by reiterating the commission’s full support to the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen. this can only strengthen our collective resilience and deepen our cohesion. we now have a real opportunity in december to make at last this historic decision and let the citizens of romania, bulgaria and croatia benefit fully from our cherished schengen success, making us stronger and safer together. i remain convinced that by working together we can fortify and expand this so emblematic european success story for the benefit of our citizens, the internal market and our economies.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, schengen is a great success story for europe. it has broken down barriers, brought european citizens closer together and strengthened our european economy. with bulgaria and romania, we have two eu member states who fulfil all conditions to join this area. they are ready for schengen, but they are still waiting for the council’s green light. since 2011 – 11 years – there has been no progress. this is simply unacceptable. we in the epp, like all parties in this house, strongly support romania and bulgaria becoming members of the schengen area, and we have always fought as the epp for this endeavour. romania and bulgaria’s place is within schengen, especially now when we face many humanitarian and security challenges at the eu borders. for us, there is no first and second-class european; there are no objective reasons to deny bulgaria and romania this success. they have made all the necessary steps. let me assure our friends in sofia and bucharest that you have the full support of us in the epp. your place is within schengen. we call now on the council to finally grant bulgaria and romania the access they deserve. the war, in particular, is again a test for us on whether we can reinforce the unity. this schengen enlargement is a test case for this. the years of waiting must come to an end. we need no more excuses, but actions. with these two countries joining schengen, we can better protect our external borders and strengthen the whole schengen area. let us continue the schengen success story with bulgaria and romania on board, and let’s do it now.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, eleven years old. for eleven years bulgaria and romania have been waiting without any objective reason to block their entry into schengen. freedom of movement, as we have heard here, is one of the fundamental pillars of our union. and citizens of bulgaria and romania have the same rights as those of other member states. they have no more rights, but no less. it's a matter of justice. it is not possible for a bulgarian citizen living in another member state of the union who wants to travel to his country by car to have to pass through border checks. it's discriminatory. it is discriminatory that they have to go through different queues at some airports. it is discriminatory and, moreover, it has an economic cost that romanian lorries have to wait in queues to pass border controls within the european union. this deadlock in the council must end. because if it does not, the people of those countries will lose their patience. we talk a lot about solidarity these days, but solidarity has to apply to everyone. solidarity cannot be asked of romania and bulgaria when the european union is not complying with its own rules. it is the best recipe for fuelling anti-european sentiment and support for populist anti-european messages. i hope that this parliament will adopt a resolution with a very clear message to the council and that the council will listen to it and act. i think it's about time.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear colleagues. as we have heard, the assessment that bulgaria and romania are ready for accession to schengen has been made a long time ago by the experts and by the commission already back in 2011. it is now 2022, 11 years later and, colleagues, i feel ashamed. i feel ashamed towards the bulgarian and the romanian citizens who rightly feel that they are not treated equally and that they didn’t get the same right to borderless travel. i feel ashamed for the council to have stalled this long for not honouring its commitment. we have established common procedures and evaluation mechanisms, and we should respect the outcome. no moving goalposts, and the schengen process should not become a proxy battlefield for other political issues. and last but not least, colleagues, i am ashamed for the dutch government because it’s the dutch government that has been one of the main obstacles here, and largely for political reasons, domestic political reasons. respect for european rules is not a one-way street. there cannot be double standards. so from this position, i would like to call on prime minister rutte to respect the rules and support the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen zone. because i think in these times we have to put european unity before national politics. bulgaria and romania belong in schengen.
dear colleague, i have to remind you about rule 10, which says that improper behaviour is not acceptable in this chamber, and i would interpret your words about a member state, calling the member state ‘the wild west’ in a very degrading way, is not acceptable. i will convey this message to the president to take potential measures.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, i hope you will take action as you have said. ladies and gentlemen, the non-accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen is a real political disgrace for the leadership of the european union. a real political disgrace, because all of you in this room, for which i congratulate you, by the way, confirm the fact that both bulgaria and romania have met all the criteria and should be part of the schengen area. but it doesn't work. why isn't it working, fellas? because one country officially - that's the netherlands, the government of the netherlands, not all of the netherlands, and the other countries have been stumbling and preventing this for domestic political reasons, so as not to cause some harm inside their homes. now that's a double standard. you're showing us that there are more europeans and fewer europeans. you show that there are first-hand europeans and second-hand europeans. that is hypocrisy, that is duplicity, and that is unacceptable to us. and it's a shame and a disgrace to those countries that do it. it is they who teach us how to deal with the candidate countries, how to enlarge the european union, how to be one big, happy, happy family. what are they doing? they leave bulgaria, romania and croatia out of it and that's hypocrisy, and that's duplicity, and that's extremely, extremely dishonest. we all know why. the main reason is not even politics, it's economics. when we and the romanians are out of schengen, we can't drive. we're one of the biggest haulers in the country. our trucks are waiting at the border, our drivers are slow, our business is dying. they're taking bread out of the hands of bulgarian entrepreneurs and romanian entrepreneurs. and that is a disgrace. take action and get your governments to do their job.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i want to welcome and support the accession of new countries to schengen. i firmly believe in the free movement of absolutely everybody, but i find it very hard to separate schengen expansion from the violence that is going on at the edges of europe. the grotesque and spectacular violence and abuse against refugees trying to enter croatia and, to a lesser extent, bulgaria and romania makes it very hard to shake the impression that the eu is demanding that these countries prove that they’ll stop at nothing to keep migrants out as a price for free movement. the eu seems to have developed a habit of rewarding appalling behaviour with free movement. qatar murders thousands of migrant workers – we reward them with visa—free travel. croatian border guards beat, torture, rape, imprison and push back migrants – and we reward them by fast tracking their schengen accession application. this is the same croatia which tried to suppress a report of the european committee for the prevention of torture into horrifying abuse. it is the same croatia that lied to this parliament about what’s going on at its borders, and the same croatia whose sham monitoring mechanism could not find any evidence of push—backs. we can only hope that bulgaria and romania don’t look at croatia’s reward and decide to escalate their violence against migrants in the hope of impressing the psychopathic eu establishment with their commitment.
mr president, i welcome the outcome of the commission’s review on the 15-point action plan on trade and sustainable development. there is no doubt, as the strongest economic trading bloc in the globe, we have obligations both to ourselves, but also to the broader world itself, in ensuring that standards are maintained and lifted. so we can’t have a situation where there is exploitation in third countries, third world countries and trading blocs for the benefit of the european union alone. in future, trade agreements have to do a serious, tangible assessment of the impact, not only in the context of the impact on europe, but also how will it impact on the countries and the partnerships we are drafting agreements with. that is of fundamental critical importance to the adherence of decency in world trade. if you take, for example, environmental standards, labour standards, social employment standards and other human rights obligations, it is imperative that we start to shift and nudge not just europe, but also, more importantly, the people that we are trading with whose standards are not ours. we have to encourage and nudge them as well. so, i welcome the publication, but we have a lot of work to do to ensure that our trade agreements are consistent with basic decency across the globe.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, this summer the monsoon season has turned into an absolute disaster in pakistan. pakistan, it has been said, emits only 0.3 percent of greenhouse gases. and yet it is paying a heavy price today for the climate disruption which, combined with the unequal world order, is a real double punishment for the poor countries and will be even more destabilizing tomorrow on a global scale. here, as there, i therefore call on the european union to honour its commitments to developing countries and to step up its efforts to make adaptation to global warming a global priority, particularly at the next cop in egypt.
president. - mr president, i am sorry to say that pakistan has been hit by floods before, but this year the glaciers were melting very fast and the monsoons came in large numbers. farmers were among those affected. it is a pity that the large landowners are still demanding that the farmers should pay back all the loans, even though the harvests have failed. i'm sorry to hear that. i was in pakistan recently, and the pakistani government told us, yes, this is all climate change, and we'd like to be compensated. we said: okay, we get that, but start by getting the compensation from china and india. they are your neighbours and the biggest polluters. president. - i think pakistan will be submitting a new application to the european union for the sap plus trade preference programme. i think we are critical of that. not only are the big landowners in pakistan very important, but we also see a great deal of influence from extremists, with many being wrongfully imprisoned on false charges and for blasphemy. women, journalists and workers are also in the corner of pakistan where the blows fall. so, yes, we have to help pakistan because of this flood. but pakistan also needs to take concrete action in the right direction itself to reverse the tide of inequality in this country. (the president declared the motion for a resolution adopted)
blue-card speech. – i’d like to ask the mep a question about climate justice. you say that pakistan should ask india and china, the big polluters, for compensation for climate change. we know for a fact that climate change has been predominantly caused by the developed world – ours. the west has been predominantly responsible for the impact of climate change, but they’re not the ones that feel the impact of it. pakistan emits less than 1% of the world emissions. tell me, why should the people responsible for climate change not give them reparations?
uachtaráin, there are more than seven million people in easáitithe. killed six hundred men, five hundred children in the midst. chaill in the millions of children in pakistan to dtithe, to gclanna, agus a gcuid scoileanna. and now, there's a lot of disease going on in the country. the united nations is asking for more help from us and we should help them. the european union must be called upon to step up. you've got air in your lungs. it is also going to decarbonise the whole sector. it shows a tragedy in phacastáin praghas an bhogáis.
mr president, the scale of this disaster is incredible. one million homes have disappeared, and 33 million pakistanis have been displaced. more than ever, this is a time for climate justice. real climate justice means loss and damage payments. it means climate reparations from those who are most responsible for climate change – the developed west – to those who are the least responsible and the most affected. the 2021 glasgow climate pact was a failure in terms of agreeing loss and damages for the most vulnerable nations. the eu is forever telling us about its climate leadership, despite the fact that the green deal targets are well below what is required from the global north. will the eu and the member states take responsibility and provide reparations on this occasion, or is pakistan not part of our geopolitical plans? climate change, not the war in ukraine, is by far the biggest crisis facing this planet.
mr president, commissioner, torrential monsoon rains triggered the most severe flooding in pakistan’s recent history, washing away entire villages, killing over 1 600 people and displacing more than 33 million. this climate-induced disaster is leaving behind a trail of destruction, starvation and diseases. with a vast area of pakistan likely to take months to dry out, waterborne diseases are spiking, as well as malnutrition, especially among children. despite all the efforts of the international community, volunteers and the government, the unprecedented nature of the floods has resulted in a huge resource gap and pakistan’s already overwhelmed health—care system lacks the resources to help all those who need treatment now. the lives of 100 000 more people are under threat as a second disaster looms within the first one. it’s imperative, under our principle of international solidarity, commitment and burden sharing, to answer the demands to increase cooperation and mobilise much more funds. but it will not be enough to increase humanitarian aid in an attempt to curb the possible risk of epidemics. to support the country at this dramatic time, action will have to be taken to support pakistan’s reconstruction, rehabilitation and resilience, including through debt relief measures. it is not a time for fine words, but for immediate and effective action.
mr president, what happened in pakistan is devastation beyond belief and there is no question but that it is climate induced. 53 degrees, glacial melts, a monsoon going into october, one third of the country under water, 33 million affected. we’ve even heard about schools being shut down because they’re needed for shelters, so all of the young people are being denied an education. pakistan’s climate change minister, sherry rehman, blames the inefficiency of the north—south climate deal. she says there is so much loss and damage with so little reparations to countries that contributed so little to the world’s carbon footprint that obviously the bargain made between the global north and the global south is not working. she is totally right. pakistan has contributed so little and is paying the most. it’s the world’s 50th most populous country. it’s host to so many afghan refugees to whom we shut up our borders. the international community has an obligation to assist and yet we condition our relief or give them a pittance. it’s just not good enough! it’s time to act!
mr. chairman, please! between july 8 and july 17, 209 people were killed in gang violence in the haitian capital. that means that one person died every 68 minutes. nearly half of them are people who had no connection to organized crime. there are kidnappings for ransom, rapes, armed robberies. the haitian people are just totally terrorized. at the same time, they are also deprived of access to food, water and medicine. the international community must respond. monitor the humanitarian situation in the country and ensure that aid reaches those most in need. it is imperative that the rule of law is restored in haiti and that free elections are held. all efforts to this end should be supported. finally, we need to think about the long-term support for haiti. about half the country's population under 15 years of age cannot read or write. the education system reflects social inequalities. sadly, poverty and lack of prospects can lead many young people without proper education to become involved in criminal activities. and that way, if we invest in education, we can really make a difference in this country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, haiti is in the grip of a spiral of violence which has continued to worsen since the assassination of president moïse. political instability and economic and social conditions, severely worsened by the pandemic and the violent earthquake of august 2021, make haiti one of the most serious human and social rights crisis scenarios in the world at this time. the country is in the grip of a spiral of violence, as many colleagues have pointed out, in which there are worrying links between crime, violent groups and corrupt politics, engaged in a ceaseless struggle for power. there were over 1,000 murders last year. the majority of the population lives in conditions of absolute poverty. the international community has adopted a fluctuating attitude towards haiti, with sometimes disastrous results, starting with the ambiguous attitude of the united states itself. we therefore call on the high representative and the commission to take all possible steps at international level to strengthen the institutions of haiti in order to stop the spiral of violence and offer a less suffering future to the people of haiti.
mr president, commissioner, haiti has been facing many problems for too long, both climatic and health problems. in addition to covid, there has been a recent arrival of a resurgence of cholera. in addition, insecurity and corruption are the hallmarks of a failing democracy. the european union is assisting haiti, particularly through the european development fund, to reduce these scourges. yet, insecurity and violence continue to dominate the lives of millions of people who are fearful, helpless and now without hope. the moral and material bankruptcy of haitian institutions, gangrenous with corruption and gang control, prevents any exercise of democracy. the time has therefore come to take stock of how european funds are being used. what steps are you taking, commissioner, to enable the european union to continue its effective humanitarian action for the benefit of the people and to make haiti the pearl of the west indies once again?
mr president, let me begin by expressing my indignation at the fact that mr sinčić has taken the liberty of devoting his minute to croatia, rather than to the plight of millions of people in haiti. so many murders, so much violence and gang violence that we see in haiti it seems like there's no end to it. the un security council has expressed hope for an improvement in the current humanitarian crisis in haiti, but the situation is not improving at all. it's as if the situation has been frozen, and unfortunately, there's been a dispute over the interim president's mandate. there is no doubt that the european union cannot abandon people in need. we've been talking about this issue a few times this election season alone. we have to help provide our experience, our resources, our know-how. haiti certainly deserves a better future.
mr president, haiti is the site of the first and only successful slave revolution in history. haitians won their independence from france in 1804 and immediately abolished slavery, becoming the first place in the world to do so. it was also the first state to outlaw racism in its constitution. haiti was a beacon of light for the world, and it was punished for it. it was punished over and over again by france, by the us, through a series of coups, invasions, occupations, assassinations, through relentless meddling and crushing debt. they were determined that this beacon of freedom would be extinguished because it presented a bold challenge to the logic of capital and empire. but the haitian people kept fighting through. theirs is a light that never goes out, and so it’s still being punished. the meddling goes on. if haiti is a mess – and it is – then europe and the us are to blame. if we want to support the haitian people – and we should – we’ll stand up to the us, the world’s bully, tell them to get out of haiti and get out of it ourselves.
mr president, western imperialism has never stopped punishing haiti for the crime of being the first black majority nation to successfully carry out an anti-colonial revolution, when they kicked out the french in 1804. since then, the us and france have colluded to kill at least five sitting presidents and engineered countless coups. the reversal of the aristide coup by the haitian people was met with crushing neoliberal reforms forced by the clinton regime. a second coup against aristide in ‘04 by the french and americans ushered in pro-west leadership that ensured no nation—building would be carried out, no investment in infrastructure that might help haiti to prepare for earthquakes and the ravages of global warming. the successful defiance of the haitian people has been met with 200 years of imperialists attempting to keep them on their knees and then shedding crocodile tears at the resulting instability. i’d like to know, what right have we got to be interfering in this sovereign nation?
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, for over three weeks now social unrest and popular protests have continued to affect the streets of port-au-prince, as well as several urban centres in the country. while the initial aim of these protests was to show legitimate dissent against the decisions of the government on domestic policies, the violence and the looting which have followed are largely the work of armed gangs that have infiltrated the protests and taken advantage of the situation. banks, schools, food depots, including the world food programme, caritas and other ngos have been vandalised and looted in the course of these events. the violence has hampered relief and humanitarian efforts in the response to the 2021 earthquake. the european union regrets that once more the principal victims of this violence are the most vulnerable groups. the growing number of kidnappings and killings, often involving children, either as victims or as perpetrators, and high rates of sexual and gender-based violence are signs of the further degradation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in the country. what is happening reminds us that when political leaders in haiti do not manage to offer reliable solutions, armed gangs take control and it is the people who suffer the consequences. united nations secretary-general guterres has rightly highlighted that the current crisis requires drastic measures, particularly when it comes to restoring security and the fight against armed gangs. the haitians cannot be left alone. the european union is actively considering a contribution to the european union-administrated basket fund to strengthen the national police of haiti. ultimately, however, a political solution must be found within haiti and by the haitians. it is high time for the country’s political forces to show responsibility and put the well-being of the country and its long-suffering people before their own factional interests. otherwise, it is hard to see an exit from the current crisis.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 6 october 2022.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the massive curtailment of media freedom in myanmar, in particular the cases of htet htet khine, sithu aung myint and nyein nyein aye (2022/2857 ((rsp)).
a writer. the commission is not the washington post has given itself the subtitle: "democracy dies in darkness". and that's what it's about. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the union. this is also our main concern in europe today with this resolution on myanmar, where there are untenable conditions for freedom of the press and of expression. but we're going a step further. you have to let it sink in: reporters can be arrested and put in jail simply because the powers that be don't like a story. this is unbelievable. the resolution makes it clear that europe stands for freedom of the press and freedom of expression. we also call for the immediate release of all journalists concerned, including prime minister aung san suu kyi and others. we also call for concerted international cooperation with myanmar, including further sanctions. if democracy is indeed dying in the dark, then we cannot, will not and will not accept and tolerate that.
author. – mr president, i took the initiative for a joint motion for a resolution on the media freedom crackdown in myanmar for three reasons. first, there is a constant degradation of the situation in myanmar, with the military dictatorship taking extreme measures against the population, its political adversaries and journalists and media workers. second, after the russian invasion of ukraine, there has been a general tendency among authoritarian regimes to strictly control the media and neutralise one way or the other all dissenting voices. third, there are also negative dynamics in the european union concerning media freedom. the situation is, of course, completely different in the democratic european environment, but the negative trend provides an additional incentive to promote media freedom and the protection of journalists and media workers all over the world. i welcome the consensus achieved by all political groups on the matter and i expect that, along with the strong political message we send, all the possible necessary measures will be taken in order to assure the freedom and protect the lives of all those that have been jailed, tortured, persecuted in myanmar.
author. – mr president, commissioner, indeed the european parliament calls for the unconditional release of these three journalists and other political prisoners, including the state leaders, in this resolution. but, very importantly, it places this question of the persecution of the free media in the context of the military coup that has spread terror and killed civilians since 1 february 2021. now is the time to bring the issue of myanmar back to the international arenas, because it has been largely forgotten. we have seen that the people of myanmar have united in an unprecedented way against the military junta and its army. indeed, now is the time when the democratic countries – including of course the european union at the spearhead – must give their unconditional and explicit support to the democratic forces, as represented mainly by the national unity government. asean, of course, is a big player in the region, but the five-point consensus that asean adopted in may 2021 has been a total failure. it has not been able to have an impact on the situation. one of the reasons is that one of the parties to negotiate this consensus was the junta, and i very much encourage the european union to call for asean to draft a new consensus on the myanmar issue towards peace and democracy. the national unity government should be recognised as a legitimate partner to this negotiation. now we also have to see that the sanctions that we have in place are gradually strengthened, and that there is proper international coordination of the sanctions with the united states and other like-minded partners. otherwise, we will be failing in our efforts.
author. – mr president, commissioner, since the military coup d’état in myanmar of 1 february 2021, we see the accompanying crackdown on opposition leaders and even ordinary activists, public figures, that are detained and also massive crackdown on media as well as telecommunications. also a variety of social media outlets are curbing the access to internet and to uncensored information within myanmar. four rounds of our sanctions and numerous resolutions of the european parliament may be in vain without strict international broader coordination with like-minded partners, in particular transatlantic ones and countries like uk. within the global press freedom index of article 19, myanmar holds now the fifth lowest position among 180 in terms of media freedom. we have to push and exert pressure for immediate release of detained journalists and for stopping the violence.
author. mr president, one and a half years after the coup, the situation in myanmar remains critical. the same military responsible for the rohingya genocide is now perpetrating widespread and systematic abuses against the burmese people and, of course, trying to silence the journalists who report it. this is possible thanks, in part, to the funding that the junta militar obtains from its corporate network. we must strengthen sanctions against all companies linked to the junta and remove the exception that allows, for example, european companies to transfer their shares to the junta when they leave the country, as happened with the departure of total, which transferred its shares to a company controlled by the military. in addition, the freezing of specific assets and the prohibition of international financial transfers to the two state-owned banks controlled by the junta must be promoted. unconditional support for the pro-democracy forces must include recognition of the government of national unity, and i take this opportunity to ask it to state clearly its position on the status of the rohingya and in particular on their right to citizenship and recognition as an ethnic group in myanmar and their right to return to the country. once again, the burmese people are giving us an example of struggle and dignity. we can't just sit back and watch him get slaughtered. we have to act.
for the ppe group. mr. chairman, the myanmar government continues its brutal suppression of the rights of the peaceful people of this beautiful country. he's restricting access to social media, he's imprisoning journalists, he's brutally suppressing demonstrations, and in fact, what he's been teaching for years in china, he's practicing in his own country. we are witnessing journalists being condemned and now i will quote: for spreading fear in their country, for fake news and agitation against the state establishment. i think we must strongly condemn this action of the military junta. also strongly condemn all violence and condemnation of political prisoners. i want to mention specifically ms. su ji, who won the last election. i think we need to deepen our cooperation with regional partners in order to be able to put joint pressure on the myanmar military junta.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. mr president, since the junta in myanmar took power in february 2021, there has been an increasing number of attacks and killings of civilians, religious minorities, peaceful democratic demonstrators, human rights defenders and journalists. the list is long, and it's a terrible read. the junta is violently fighting any form of opposition and continues to undermine freedom of the press. this is unacceptable. freedom of the press is essential to a free and democratic society. journalists should not be treated like criminals and should not fear for their lives just because they are doing their job. it is essential that we in the eu do everything in our power to stop the systematic violations of human rights taking place in myanmar. i strongly urge the eu to strengthen sanctions against the myanmar junta. the democratic election of 2020 must and must be respected.
mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, ‘the only security of all is in a free press’. these were the words of thomas jefferson, and they are more appropriate than ever to describe the appalling situation in myanmar. indeed, abolishing media freedom the military junta has razed whatever level of security for the people of myanmar, granting itself liberty and impunity for committing barbarian acts such as those described in the resolution presented today. what is even more impressive, yet very far from surprising, is that this brutal junta enjoys support from those authoritarian states we constantly criticise from this house, namely russia and china, who are blocking every action potentially taken by the un security council. from this house, we must be absolutely firm in condemning the behaviour of the tatmadaw and those who stand on their side. we should suspend the preferential status for commerce and every privilege they have and encourage the eu delegation and the diplomatic missions of the member states to offer all practical support to those who risk their lives every day. we call for an immediate arms embargo on myanmar. the people of myanmar have been forced to silence. we must be their spokespersons. otherwise, also our freedom will result void and useless.
mr president, the situation in myanmar is appalling. mass arrests, detention of critics, beatings and deaths in custody, the use of the death penalty – all indefensible – and, in particular, attacks on freedom of expression, with journalists and activists charged with incitement and sedition for criticising the military; with the crime of causing fear and spreading fake news. this is an abomination, and we are right to condemn them, but they also hold up a mirror for us to see ourselves. this parliament voted in march for the kalniete report, which calls for the use of sanctions against so-called disinformation, including targeted individuals. we had calls this morning for sanctioning journalists, and even musicians. this report was against the advice we heard from expert lawyers, who made clear that sanctions have too low a burden of proof, no trial, no defence, no due process, no way to appeal and none of the rights to a normal defence. this has a chilling effect on freedom of expression. so see myanmar and learn the lessons. policing political speech is incompatible with democratic freedoms. the idea of using sanctions to combat disinformation disgraces us. it should be abandoned.
author. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, on behalf of the epp group author, željana zovko, let me thank all the co-rapporteurs for their cooperation. the civil war in ethiopia between the federal government and the tigray people’s liberation front has been going on for two years. the recent deterioration of human rights is of utmost concern. on 24 august, the truce was broken and hostilities in the region culminated. as a result, one of the federal air raids hit a kindergarten in mekelle, killing several children. we want to emphasise the alarming situation of children. one out of three tigrayan children under the age of five is malnourished. we are shocked by news about the killing of children based on ethnicity. we are concerned about children being used as child soldiers. these actions constitute war crimes and crimes against humanity. we should act. we call on the commission to step up its effort to ensure the safety of children. besides the danger of war, ethiopia is expecting the worst drought, and millions of people will suffer from hunger, including children. that’s why we call for an immediate ceasefire and condemn the invasion of eritrean forces into the region of tigray. this week, a promising step might be the peace talks between ethiopia and tigray leaders in south africa. parliament welcomes the renewal of the mandate of olusegun obasanjo as the african union’s high representative for the horn of africa. his role is crucial for facilitating peace talks. parliament urges the eu and its member states to request the un security council to hold regular public meetings on ethiopia, to ensure humanitarian aid access, and to protect civilians. dear colleagues, thank you for your support on this resolution.
author. mr president, we strongly condemn the resumption of fighting between ethiopian government forces and the tplf in the tigray region on 24 august. after a five-month truce, the civil war in ethiopia has resumed. the conflict has been going on for more than two years and has caused thousands of deaths and the displacement of millions more inside the country. the civilian population, especially women and children of the tigray, amhara and afar ethnic groups, are the main victims of this conflict. the announcements by the ethiopian government to open a passage for humanitarian convoys must be implemented and strengthened, at a time when more than 5 million people no longer have access to basic services, health care or medicines. the un experts, in a report on abuses, reported on human rights violations by all parties to the conflict, which could be described as war crimes and crimes against humanity. these violations must stop immediately. on both sides, the perpetrators of these crimes must be held accountable for their actions, through the establishment of independent investigative and judicial mechanisms. the european union must strongly support the efforts of the african union to open peace negotiations and welcome the commitment of the ethiopian government, which has already accepted this invitation. the tplf must also be involved in these negotiations, which are fundamental: they must lead, in the very short term, to a new truce, which opens and strengthens access to humanitarian convoys, in support of all the populations. but they are also necessary for the establishment of an inclusive dialogue, which must be able to lead to a lasting political solution to this conflict.
author. – mr president, in tigray, as in every war, it would appear that all sides have reasons to distort the truth as to what’s happening on the ground. we’ve had conflicting narratives about the break-out of the war, denials of eritrean involvement. we’ve had the ethiopian ambassador come before our committee and tell us that the european government were doing everything in their power to facilitate aid to tigray, when we knew it wasn’t true. what is clear is that one of the worst humanitarian crises on earth is unfolding in ethiopia because of the war. yet, sadly, we couldn’t get agreement from the main groups here for action on humanitarian visas for those at risk. nor would they agree to an arms embargo on weapons to ethiopia and eritrea. why? what they could agree on was calls for sanctions on an area where millions are facing starvation. sanctions that will hit the poorest and the weakest on both sides the most, as usual. it is good that we do agree on the need to work for peace and to call for peace. and it’s a pity that we don’t call for peace in ukraine as well.
for the ppe group. mr president, these ethnic conflicts we are witnessing in ethiopia are a reflection of historical injustices, historical tensions, but they also show how they are decimating the whole country and the region and deepening the current humanitarian and food crisis in the region. the ahmar people in regions like oromia have been the target of repeated attacks, with tens of thousands of murders, hundreds of thousands, even millions of displaced people. on one side we see the murder of children and on the other side we see children being recruited into the armed forces. these are absolutely horrifying cases, committed mainly by the oromo liberation army. it is important that we name these war crimes, that we unequivocally condemn crimes against humanity and that we hold all perpetrators accountable. they will not remain hidden, they will be held accountable and the victims will be brought to justice.
the commission is therefore proposing that the council should take a decision on the matter. this is not a situation confined to that region, given that the conflict has been spreading and creating pockets of humanitarian and rights risk throughout ethiopia. i am deeply sorry that at the end of august the ceasefire was broken. the humanitarian consequences of the breach of the ceasefire are evident in the brutal figures that are being released by international agencies and, in particular, by the united nations reports. war crimes must be exposed, tried and punished in the light of international law. i call for a permanent ceasefire. it is essential that the international community encourage the peace dialogue under the auspices of the african union. it is essential that in particular every effort be made to protect children from the risks of violence and separation from their families. as the european union, our place is with the ethiopian people in the search for a peaceful solution to the conflict.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, this parliament was in ethiopia two weeks ago and we were able to see the terrible situation that the war in the north has caused in that country. not only tigray, but afar, amhara have a situation where more than 20 million people need humanitarian aid, aid that doesn't come because it's been used as a weapon of war. so is violence against women. yes, but let me tell you, it's a special kind of violence. there are lacerating objects that are inserted into the vagina of women to cause permanent damage and cause infertility to the enemy. it's awful but ethiopia has 110 million people. the european union has cut its development aid, its budgetary support, in order to make what is happening there conditional on the violation of human rights. but we have to know that 40 percent of the education budget in ethiopia is community funds and in the ministry of health it is also 40 percent. in a country of 110 million people, this is a very serious situation, especially among girls who, if they do not go to school, have a 90 percent chance of being mutilated. thank you very much. we must make an effort for peace.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, just some days ago, i asked on my social media whether people knew about what is going on in tigray in northern ethiopia. i think like 83% answered that they had no clue at all what is going on there. i think this is really important that we talk about this today again. what is going on there? i think it’s one of the biggest humanitarian crisis on this planet at the moment. there are some experts who talk about 500 000 deaths in the last two years already due to the war, but also because of famine and stuff like this. the tigray region is completely isolated, like there’s no way to get humanitarian aid there. there are reports of rape, of torture, of children being recruited for the army, and i think we cannot watch this. but the conflict parties had already declared a ceasefire. so a ceasefire is possible, and i think this is something we really have to push for also as the european union – push for a ceasefire for all the parties and also offer all the support to the african union for the peace talks.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, crisis after crisis, war after war, we are witnessing human misery and the suffering of others. as the number of displaced people continues to be fuelled by new conflicts and as traffickers continue to profit financially from human misery by projecting a european eldorado and organising lucrative emigration channels, we know that for the vast majority the european dream will never come true and that it regularly ends in a nightmare. once in europe, exiles often find themselves living in deplorable and inhumane conditions, without work, without prospects for the future and completely uprooted. as we face the war in tigray and the devastation of that war on children, it is clear that the crisis management policies of yesterday must be rewritten to deal with the crises of today. the construction of "asilia" host cities, as pacasse called them, near the affected areas would allow for the rapid and efficient deployment of relief supplies to the populations. health, education and adult education would be given priority. daily life in an asilia city, managed through international partnerships, would offer everyone the opportunity to anticipate the future: preparing for the vast majority to return to their ancestral lands; for others, applying for asylum elsewhere. while the number of displaced children on the path to immigration is worrying, the disastrous immigration and asylum pact, which the commission presented in september 2021, makes immigration to the european union the core of its project. but what a mistake! it is clear that the solution to the crises on the african continent is not in europe, it is in africa. intra-continental or intraregional proximity management would save families and children from unnecessary trauma and from the dangers of emigration, which often depends on mafia networks. this terrible crisis in tigray offers the european union an opportunity to break with its sacralization of emigration to the distant european union by putting proximity at the heart of a political project to help the populations.
mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, in less than a month, the conflict in ethiopia will enter its third year. thousands of people have lost their lives and children and women, as usual, are the first victims. we have discussed this topic dozens of times, and i believe it is time to scale up our efforts, acting in three main ways. in the immediate term, we must guarantee humanitarian support to those in need, making sure that this aid reaches the local population. then we must exploit this momentum, which seems favourable for the reopening negotiations. indeed, our union should provide all diplomatic support to the african union without the intention to guide the process but assisting the negotiators in finding african solutions for two african problems. and afterwards, in the medium term, we need to be on the forefront for ensuring that any peace agreement can last, providing financial and practical expertise for the retrieval of weapons that are currently in possession of combatants, especially civilians forced to embrace the arms. our african counterparts have created an ambitious agenda for silencing the guns. let us show that we are on their side, not only when tragedies happen, but every day until the guns will leave space for real human development.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the people of the horn of africa need everything but this war. we heard the numbers. thousands of people have died, more than two million people have lost their homes. over a million children are out of school, forced to become soldiers, have lost their parents. there are rapes, people are suffering, especially women and children. these are clear violations of human rights that must be punished. and we must ensure that one of the world's worst famines is stopped. we need peace, the war must end. and yes, the european commission must become a global commission, as announced at the beginning of this mandate, helping the united nations, helping the african union to play its role. we must become a factor of peace and stability.
mr president, this is undoubtedly a human catastrophe of proportions that we don’t actually really know. thirteen million people, at least, in need of humanitarian assistance in northern ethiopia, according to the world food programme. estimates of maybe 100 000 through direct killings; deaths from hunger – maybe 200 000; maybe half a million from lack of healthcare. but what we do know is that the tigray region is witnessing a complete weaponisation by the ethiopian government of all basic services such as water, electricity, communication, and even access to bank accounts. this is collective punishment. we know that for two years the region has been under siege by the ethiopian army, aligned with the eritrean forces to settle scores against the tigrayans, who in their time were pretty violent themselves as well. but it’s the ordinary people of tigray, afar and amhara who are bearing the brunt of this military engagement. i agree with colleagues that now the entire ethiopian population is affected. we must concentrate on a peace agreement, the ceasefire and the restoration of living conditions in the affected areas in this noble country that was never fully colonised.
mr president, this is a very important file, and it has real, tangible repercussions for citizens across europe. i voted in favour of the potential cap on gas without being prescriptive. and i think it’s very important that the commission comes forward with deep, meaningful proposals that make an assessment on the risks and the opportunities around the price cap. the first thing we have to do is to ensure that we have certainty going forward in terms of energy security and the cost of electricity across the entirety of the european union. but equally, we have to be conscious that as we speak here and as we face a winter, across ukraine people are dying because the real oppressor in all of this, the real person who’s causing the difficulties with regard to citizens, the cost of fuel, the cost of living, the cost electricity is vladimir putin himself. so whatever we do, we must ensure that we have strong unity of purpose, sanctions hit russia, and that we try to alleviate the pressures on european citizens by ensuring that we have a cap on gas that reduces the cost of electricity and energy across the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, farmers are asking us for help to ensure their food supply, and we must support them. it's good to remember the reasons why artificial fertilizers are scarce and their prices are up to three times higher than a year ago. it's mainly russia's war aggression against ukraine, that is putin, stopping imports and rising prices. our dependence on imports of nitrates, particularly phosphate fertilisers from russia and belarus, is another very negative feature. inertial forces are also prevalent in industrial fertilization, and there is a great deal of pressure to reduce livestock production and a great deal of inequality in the distribution of livestock production. and i also deliver an absurd ban on the use of breeding innovations and new genomic techniques. the farmers are waiting for our response and it must be immediate. i welcome the proposal for a communication which will be strategic, but i expect the commission to support the availability of industrial fertilisers financially, so that farmers can produce sufficient quantities of basic crops in 2023 too, increase the use of organic fertilisers, and start using new genomic technologies to improve the efficiency of agricultural production.
mr president, the true cost of the problem for consumers and farmers has not been fully evolved yet due to the fact that a lot of the crops this year were sown by input costs from last year. but now, as we unwind all of that into the marketplace, we’re going to see huge pressures on farm profitability, but more importantly, the pressures that will be on consumers through food inflation. this is going to have profound implications across the globe. but from a perspective of europe, we have to ensure that we take immediate steps to address the cost of artificial fertilizer, and that means unwinding natural gas and decoupling the cost of electricity from gas itself to ensure that we can manufacture fertilizer. obviously, 60% of our fertilizer is now cut off due to russia’s illegal war in ukraine. but we do have to do things immediately, commissioner. obviously, there are longer term issues with regard to the reduction of artificial fertilizers, but in the here and now, every effort must be made to sustain our food supply and our food security through cheaper cost efforts.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is estimated that flemish farmers will have a record turnover of eur 7.2 billion this year. but unfortunately, they see that extra revenue going up in smoke entirely because of the extraordinarily high bills for feed, energy and, indeed, fertilizer. limited availability and record prices will not only drive production costs to unprecedented heights, but will also lead to lower crop yields. however, part of the solution is literally within our grasp. we must not be blind to the use of chemical fertilisers alone and must dare to use animal fertilisers as an alternative. innovation is already allowing us to close the mineral loop on farms. let's face the facts. let us act accordingly as legislators. i therefore call on the commission once again to take the renure criteria seriously and to come forward with a proposal as a matter of urgency. the 2020 joint research center study was clear, very clear that this would benefit more circular farms and more efficient use of resources in agriculture. for the summer, 19 meps from the epp, renew, s&d and ecr groups sent a letter to you, commissioner. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of pesticides and the use of pesticides in the production of foodstuffs.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the war in ukraine has finally exposed europe's dependence on fertiliser imports from russia, belarus, ukraine. on the other hand, what is the effect of the price of gas on the price of fertiliser? here in the european parliament and in the european commission we are aware of the problems with energy supply and we are taking a number of measures to keep people warm, to enable them to live as normal as possible. but i think we underestimate the problem in agriculture. and if we've realized in energy that wind and solar can't meet all of those needs, and now we're even using coal, lignite, to meet those needs. i have a feeling that you in the european commission still believe that it is possible to produce enough food without fertilisers, without pesticides. this is clearly stated in the 'fork to fork' package in particular, and i am convinced that, as in the energy sector, we need all types of farming, both organic and integrated, as well as conventional, and that is why we need fertilisers. i therefore think that we need to take urgent measures to ensure that there is enough fertiliser, to ensure that fertiliser is available to farmers. and this is not about helping the farmers, this is about helping the european consumer, because otherwise there will be food insecurity, where food will be too expensive and eventually there will be none if we continue down this path. action is urgent, and i urge you to take action as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, the european commission must understand that we are in the 12th hour in terms of food security - perhaps you will listen to me - and the strategy on fertilisers must be put on the table immediately. the agricultural sector has faced major challenges over time, whether it's the labor shortage or the covid pandemic. moreover, the sector faced three major challenges this year: rising fertiliser and energy prices, severe drought and the war in ukraine. unfortunately, the european commission has so far not come up with enough measures for the agricultural sector, and proposals to reduce fertiliser consumption or carbon emissions only hurt farmers. the issue of fertilisers is a complex one, as most of them were imported from ukraine and belarus, and the extremely high price makes them difficult for farmers to access. according to some studies, we cannot feed the world population today without fertilizer. it is estimated that at least ... between 30 and 50% of crop yields globally are attributed to the application of fertilisers. i would like to draw attention, in all seriousness, to the need to preserve the european union's capacity to provide food for the poorest parts of the world, otherwise we will see waves of refugees from african countries heading towards the european union. the european commission must understand that urgent action is needed, and that means money, not stories, so that farmers in the european union have access to the necessary and sufficient quantities of fertilisers to produce quality food at affordable prices for consumers.
mr president, fertilizers are not only used to produce food. at this moment, the european commission is the fertilizer for uefa by signing a new cooperation agreement while there is a case ongoing at the ecj against uefa. how can the commission enforce the treaty after the ruling in december? is this a case of sports washing?
mr president, decades of policies designed to promote the use of artificial fertilizers, instead of more resilient farming methods, have exacerbated farmers’ vulnerability to this crisis. a chronic over—dependence on livestock farming has compounded the problem. grassland makes up more than 80% of the utilised agricultural area on farms in ireland. we don’t use fertilizer to grow food for humans; we use it to grow food for animals. one of the first grain ships to leave odessa in august, after the lifting of the blockade, went not to africa but to ireland. it got a heroic welcome. it had 33 tonnes of grain on it for animals. of course, russia can take action to resolve the fertilizer crisis, but what’s the eu doing to stop the war? we continue to support the us—nato proxy war, irrespective of what it costs the people of europe and the world.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the covid—19 pandemic showed our vulnerabilities as a collective in terms of europe’s first response. but let’s be very honest, we did get our act together very, very quickly in terms of dealing with what was unknown at the time in terms of the pandemic. certainly from now on, i believe that a collective effort is required by member states when we want, first of all, to have vigilance in terms of assessing potential variants and outbreaks, and then the preparedness that follows from that. certainly when we look at the vaccine side of it, again it showed that when we collectively work together in terms of procurement, europe did exceptionally well. so we do need to ensure that continues and that we put in place now co—ordination and surveillance systems across europe, and indeed cooperating with others across the globe, to ensure that we can assess respiratory illnesses, the potential variant changes not only in covid itself but also in other acute inflammatory diseases as well, and respiratory illnesses. certainly that will be one area where i believe we could make a meaningful impact. i just want to say to this house as well, there was a lot of misinformation throughout the covid pandemic. there was a lot of scaremongering and fearmongering put out there – even by members in this particular house. the science showed that vaccines worked. the science showed that it saves lives, and we should always try and advocate on the side of science and dismiss those that continue to scaremonger the facts that are before us. so i would like a full assessment as well about the impact that the vaccines had on the saving of lives and on the reduction of people attending hospitals, because those that spread misinformation should hear the truth.
i point out that we are already very short on time. this is an important issue. the commissioner has also introduced extensive measures. he will probably give you a comprehensive answer. that is why we have time limits. we have 21 explanations of vote afterwards, and of the seven colleagues i have here, only five are involved in explanations of vote in some considerable way. i am actually determined to take all seven spontaneous statements, but i would point out that later on, when i give explanations of vote, i will have to ask some colleagues to put them in writing.
mr. chairman, thank you for your understanding of the floor. mr. commissioner, a lot of things have been said here, and most of them are true. but the fight against the pandemic is a matter for the medical authorities, commissioner. but the question to you is different. my question is how much did it cost to organize the european commission? who did the public procurement? how much did the european commission, the european parliament pay for the tests, for the masks, for the materials, for the sanitary materials, for organizing the tests, for putting the tests? how did you choose the companies, which companies cleaned, which companies did the outside testing, how did you choose them, what is the procedure, how much money did you spend and how much did it cost the european taxpayers? these are important things to know, so that there is no doubt about the integrity of the european commission's work, because during the pandemic a lot of money was spent, and you owe these answers, and i expect them.
mr president, neoliberal reforms have weakened public healthcare systems all over europe. these reforms have disastrous impacts on the ability of healthcare systems to handle the pandemic. democratisation of health and long—term care, the push for public—private partnerships and the public spending cuts encouraged by eu economic governance processes like the european semester have all contributed to the increased commercialisation, privatisation and reduction of health and long—term care services. a un development programme report examined the effects of healthcare privatisation on covid-19. it found that a 10% increase in private health expenditure corresponds to a 4.3% increase in covid cases and a 4.9% increase in covid—related mortality. the eu needs to end its neoliberal policies, and this is particularly true in the current context of the development of the european health union.
i hope that the irish language will be used in the session, so that i can put my question to the commission on english at the end. i think that shows us that there is much better cooperation at european level than in any other country to be on the same side of the border, and that is good news for us, because we have shown that we have a better cooperation without a better understanding of the situation, about the position to take against putin and the election that is taking place in ukraine. again, as joe biden said, covid-19 is around, it's not around, and it's important that we thank our citizens to be vigilant, especially when they're coming in, because covid is much more severe than the flu. you asked me now. mep trilletlenoir said we need an international treaty on pandemics. i would like to ask the commission, do they believe in that and, if so, what progress is being made to ensure that comes about?
mr president, i think we definitely should look at preparedness in terms of a new pandemic. i certainly never want to see the horrific images of italy being abandoned as it was at the start of the outbreak. but one of the major lessons that we have learned is that infectious disease surveillance and research has declined. another lesson is, of course, the commodification of health care, which actually poses a real risk to the ability of our systems to cope with a new pandemic. unless we address these, the path we’re on will not help to deal with future outbreaks. we’ve got to get to a situation where we fund science and allow research to be independent of any private or commercial interests, and we have to improve transparency in the activities of the eu administration. so, to date, the fact that the ombudsman’s request remains unanswered concerning ursula von der leyen’s text messages with the head of pfizer is not acceptable. it’s not acceptable that these messages haven’t been maintained and it’s not acceptable, as the ombudswoman has said, that there is maladministration. so the amount and quality of information in contracts has to be improved.
mr president, this is a very important matter, and i'm a little sorry that it's not on the agenda until thursday afternoon. either way, it's important to learn. i listened very carefully to what the commissioner said and i can agree with him in principle. it's important to remember that our preparedness is essential to reassuring citizens that we know we've learned from this pandemic. it's important to remember, of course, that viruses and diseases know no borders. and it's a little strange that the strengthening of competences and integration in the union is precisely in the health field that it is affecting the member states. i think that's an unfortunate approach, especially in light of a pandemic like this. we've done a lot of things - we've set up a new office for hera, we've adjusted the mandates of the agencies. what i would be missing is a higher degree of concrete plans for applying the lessons we've learned from this pandemic.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for a very interesting, inspiring discussion. based on the lessons learned from the covid pandemic, we have been able to put in place the legislation, structures and capacities to prevent, prepare for and respond to health crises together in a sustained manner, now and in the future. based on those lessons we are investing in pandemic preparedness, research and innovation based on the needs and gaps we have identified. we are also looking at the mapping of emerging health technologies and biotechnologies leading to innovative solutions for pandemic preparedness. on the transparency of the vaccine contracts, transparency is a key principle in the way we work. from the beginning, we asked vaccine developers to agree to full publication of contracts and to facilitate access for members of the european parliament to them. we are now working in close engagement with you to prepare the response to the request from the covi committee for access to commission documents, and we are doing our utmost to ensure that this will reach the committee within the best possible timeframe. the fruitful exchange we have had this afternoon clearly shows that our joint efforts to tackle covid—19 has borne fruit. those efforts must continue as we head into the autumn and winter months. beyond that, i know that your constructive cooperation and support will fuel our drive together to keep our citizens safe from covid—19, monkeypox, and any other threats to our health that may emerge in the future. together, we must carry out our duty always to protect the health of our citizens, our economy and our environment.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the spanish socialists in the european parliament consider it necessary to maintain and strengthen the eu's preparedness and response to new waves of covid and future pandemics. we consider the commission communication of 27 april covid-19: supporting the eu's preparedness and response for the future to be appropriate, although we believe that several aspects need to be strengthened. first, the commission should ensure that there is a coordinated vaccination and therapeutic strategy for future covid waves, as well as a long-term perspective on vaccine research. secondly, the commission should support and ensure that member states have sufficient healthcare capacities during the next wave of covid-19, including the protection of vulnerable groups, so that there is no risk of overburdening national health sectors again. thirdly, the commission should also support member states in reducing and preventing disinformation during this pandemic and possible future pandemics. finally, the commission should address cross-border pathogens within the framework of the 'one health approach' and available surveillance systems.
in writing. the spanish socialists in the european parliament consider it necessary to maintain and strengthen the eu's preparedness and response to new waves of covid and future pandemics. we consider the commission communication of 27 april covid-19: supporting the eu's preparedness and response for the future to be appropriate, although we believe that several aspects need to be strengthened. first, the commission should ensure that there is a coordinated vaccination and therapeutic strategy for future covid waves, as well as a long-term perspective on vaccine research. secondly, the commission should support and ensure that member states have sufficient healthcare capacities during the next wave of covid-19, including the protection of vulnerable groups, so that there is no risk of overburdening national health sectors again. thirdly, the commission should also support member states in reducing and preventing disinformation during this pandemic and possible future pandemics. finally, the commission should address cross-border pathogens within the framework of the 'one health approach' and available surveillance systems.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
mr president, on 16 september, mahsa amini, a 22 year old, died while in custody, detained by the morality police in tehran. now, i want to say at the very outset and what i say for the next number of seconds has nothing to do with being opposed to religions: it is about fundamental human rights. it’s about the right of women in any part of this globe to go about their lawful business without being hindered by what they have to wear or by why they can’t wear what they want to wear. they should have the fundamental freedoms in any country, either in the european union or in the islamic republic of iran or anywhere else. women should be free to wear what they want. it is an absolute disgrace that we are talking about a woman of 22 years of age who died simply because her headscarf was too loose. that is a fundamental breach of any human right. it’s a fundamental breach of basic decency. i ask the islamic republic of iran to loosen the restrictions on individuals so they can go about their business in the manner that they feel fit, not in the manner that the mullahs and ayatollah khamenei feel they should.
mr president, if the political class of the eu cared about human rights in the islamic republic of iran, they wouldn’t be clamouring to impose new unilateral sanctions. if we cared about the protection of human rights in a consistent, principled manner, we would condemn the relentless murder of palestinian men, women and children by israeli forces – every single plenary. we would address the tens of thousands of ordinary working class syrians, lebanese, venezuelans, yemenis, zimbabweans, cubans and iranians that are being killed by us and eu unilateral sanctions and embargoes. on 12 september, the un special rapporteur on the negative impact of unilateral coercive measures on the enjoyment of human rights, alena douhan, published her report on secondary sanctions and sanctions over—compliance. it describes how over—compliance with even so-called targeted sanctions is killing masses of women, children, the sick and the old, in particular in these targeted countries. us and eu sanctions are killing iranians, and you don’t care. you want more sanctions, and more dead iranians – in the name of human rights, no less. it’s sickening!
mr president, mahsa amini’s death in police custody is very concerning. there should be a full and transparent inquiry, and the people of iran have every right to protest and push their government for women’s rights and civil and social reforms. they should be able to do that without shocking violence and repression from the authorities. but they should equally be able to do it without the eu trying to capitalise from their struggle. while many in iran push – and rightly so – for much—needed social progress, it’s for them to decide what happens in iran, not us. most of them don’t want to see their government overthrown or their country thrown open to the predatory whims of foreign capital as it was before. but unfortunately, that was the sentiment of many in this chamber. the resolution itself is level—headed and does call on iran to see to its own house, but unfortunately, it also calls for maintaining coercive measures and sanctions, which is going to damage the very people we seek to protect. that’s why i regretfully abstained on the motion.
madam president, in 1987, over 100 000 people gathered in paris to declare poverty a violation of human rights. but we seem to have forgotten it. in the eu now, human rights generally refers to civic and political rights. taking social and economic rights off the table in the human rights debate is a huge con job on the part of neoliberalism. in her excellent book, the morals of the market, jessica whyte talks about the effort during the past 100 years to redefine and enforce a set of rights that are compatible with the market economy. and we’ve seen in the eu, which has been criticised by the un special rapporteur on extreme poverty, for relegating social economic rights to second tier aspirational principles. in doing so, he said, the eu has all but declared poverty a necessary evil. and it is little wonder that poverty is still rampant in the eu.
madam president, i think it is ironic that the theme of this year’s international day for the eradication of poverty is ‘dignity for all in practice’ when it comes, as we heard earlier, in the same week that high representative borrell tells the globe that europe is a garden and the rest of the world is a jungle. and apart from the sycophantic racism and arrogance, which is a million miles from dignity, seriously, a garden? there are 95.4 million people in danger of poverty or social exclusion, 21.7% of the eu’s population. and this is what he calls a model of social cohesion and economic progress, when all of the trends are going to more inequality and the gap is widening. meanwhile, in the jungle, as he calls it, it is as it is in a large part because of the policies of europe and global capitalism. you cannot tackle poverty without tackling the fact that the majority of the world’s wealth is owned and controlled by a tiny minority who use it for their own enrichment instead of the needs of the many. we need to end neoliberalism and put people before profit.
mr president, the press room at the european parliament's plenary seat in strasbourg bears the name of daphne caruana galizia, a heroic investigative journalist who was viciously murdered for investigating a serious corruption case. there has been a judicial investigation, there have been convictions in the member state of the european union, no less, in which this crime was perpetrated. but we cannot ignore the fact that, as has been mentioned, six other investigative journalists - men and women - have been viciously murdered in the member states of the european union, including greece and the netherlands. all of them deserve equal concern and all of them remind us of the duty we have to implement this strategy of protecting freedom of expression against any form of intimidation or silence imposed through threat, whether directly criminal or through political pressure, which attempts to silence research that feeds the free formation of public opinion in a freely constituted society.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it has produced, together with the pressure we are exerting, some results, not the ones we want. but let me tell you that the problems are not just in malta because the commissioner has spoken about golden passports, golden visas. at the moment in greece there is an industry of golden passports and every time someone protests, like me, the ministers tell us "after they have legalized various suspects for managing black money" that they bring investments. the commissioner for slapp spoke; but the slapp champion is in greece and he is the former director of mitsotakis' office and his nephew of course who also organized the surveillance, the telephone tapping, that is, at the expense of our colleague, the socialist nikos androulakis. so we see all of this. the murder of a journalist, of course, we had in greece: karaivas 18 months ago. there has been no progress in the investigations, there has been no update from mr mitsotakis' government and there has been no interest. and when i put that to mr mitsotakis, along with other things, i found myself outside new democracy and as i recall mr weber supported mr mitsotakis and not me. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the murder of daphne caruana galizia was a tragic loss for european journalism. she was a genuinely fearless investigative reporter who worked throughout her career to bring important truths to light, and god knows there are very few who do that kind of work in the european media. fearless reporting is a rarity. what dominates the european media instead is client journalism, and it fills the pages of our newspaper. it gets all the air time in broadcast news. client journalism trades its freedom for access and profit. so when we talk about threats to media freedom, what we’re talking about are the threats to this handful of journalists who actually do journalism, who uncover uncomfortable truths and hold them up to the light. the murder of ms caruana galizia was one such threat. the continued incarceration of julian assange is another. every day he remains in prison, the noose draws tighter around the neck of any journalist who might threaten western power. so, for anyone who says they care about media freedom, one of the important ways of honouring her legacy on this important anniversary is to demand his release.
mr president, at a time when real journalists are as scarce as hen’s teeth, it’s only right that we are remembering daphne caruana galizia. she had the courage to speak the truth. i heard an earlier speaker say that there is no rule of law or democracy without media freedom. but what i’d like to know is, how do you tie that in with the treatment of julian assange? he’s in prison in london. he’s been in incarceration for over 10 years now, between the ecuadorian embassy and prison, for speaking the truth. he told the truth about us—nato war crimes in afghanistan and iraq. and i don’t hear many people in here call for his release. i want to know why. why don’t ye call for the release of julian assange if you care about media freedom? because as long as he’s not free, ye have no credibility talking about media freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you: what is the direction of our european union? what has happened to the values of solidarity, peace and the defence of human rights which should guide and inspire the union's actions? what has happened to the international law that states that every person seeking protection must be and i emphasize received in the countries to which he or she flees? what happened to our humanity? these are the questions that arise when i read the olaf report and when i hear the evidence of very serious violations of fundamental rights by a european agency. it is intolerable that an agency acting on behalf of the union should not respect its fundamental principles, in breach of conventions, codes and internal regulations. i am italian, i know what it means to see migrants landing on your shores, i understand the commitment required of the country that receives them, but i also know what these people are fleeing from, something that leaves no escape. i have also seen with my own eyes the migrants who populate the balkan routes, who walk barefoot in the snow in search of hope and who suffer illegal rejections. ladies and gentlemen, it is time to be brave and finally achieve a common policy for managing immigration, based on solidarity and cooperation inside and outside the union and respecting the human rights of all, at all times.
mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to bring to your attention some details on the aspect that commissioner johansson has already included in her introduction. it was the morning of 14 october when the greek border police found two groups, in total 92 irregular immigrants including 6 children, naked next to the river evros, which constitutes the border between greece and turkey, between the eu and turkey. according to their testimonies, they had been robbed, they had been subject to personal injuries, as well as assaults on their dignity, by the turkish authorities, who obliged them through threats and violence to cross the river, to cross the eu-turkish border. needless to say that it is obvious that turkey is failing to implement all the relevant obligations and actions based on the eu-turkish joint statement. i would like to assure this house that the greek authorities will continue to protect our external borders, our eu borders. the greek authorities, supported by frontex, are operating in a very complex, very volatile environment in which turkey – we can all agree – is weaponising desperate people. and we have to face the truth and to condemn turkey in this regard.
mr president, i understand the criticism of frontex and i am in favour of change. but regardless of the changes, we have to find a way to make the agency stronger. i would remind you that under the juncker presidency we promised a frontex with 10,000 staff, which of course does not yet exist. we need an effective frontex, especially in greece, for two reasons. the first is to avoid giving erdogan an incentive to blackmail the european union with more refugees and migrants, because very specific problems will be created. for example, the new government in sweden has limited the number of refugees it will accept each year to 900. so we have to draw certain conclusions. we also need a strong european presence on the greek-turkish border to prevent tension from escaping on the basis of specific events, because we all understand where this tension can lead.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should not have intervened in this debate, but i must say that it was an enlightening debate, because, ladies and gentlemen, we are all in favour of maximum transparency, we are all in favour of respect for human rights, but this debate has shown us that this is not really the subject of the debate. the subject of the dispute is the mandate of frontex, because it has been said in several speeches that now that the previous managers have resigned, the nature and function of this agency must be changed, it would be transformed into a kind of maxi ngo which, instead of helping the member states to try to protect the borders, as provided for by the treaties, starting with the schengen treaty, becomes in fact an organ, an entity that allows a promiscuity, which is what we see every day, between those who enter illegally and those who are entitled to be welcomed with the instruments of humanitarian protection. this is wrong. we oppose this ideological view and continue to believe that a common immigration policy must also be an effective instrument to help member states to protect the union's external borders.
mr president, i have to agree with colleagues that the saddest part of this discussion is that, as shocking as it is, it contains nothing new. the report is very clear, and i thank olaf for it, but we know that frontex has carried out pushbacks. we know that frontex has funded the greek government in carrying out pushbacks; we know that frontex has deliberately withdrawn surveillance to a allow for pushbacks; and we know that they deliberately covered up information they had in order not to reveal pushbacks. so they are guilty of some of the crimes that have led to the deaths of 35 000 people on our borders. we have known about these from testimony received time and time again from activists on the ground in greece, but nothing was done. i salute olaf, but let’s be clear, the terms of reference were limited enough. what i want to know is, what has the commission done? it has been eight months since this report was completed, and it is not good enough to come in here and say: ‘well, it’s all about a few bad eggs, the three fellas are now being moved. ah sure, alright. nothing to see here’. the report reveals collusion and information passing between executive director leggeri and the commission. has that been investigated? what are the recriminations of this? this is the eu’s biggest funded agency. it has broken international law. this is not about arranging deck chairs on the titanic. it needs to be disbanded.
mr president, the olaf report exposes frontex, and it confirms what we’ve been saying for a long time. we met amir zahiri and akif rasouli in lesvos. they fled afghanistan, their country destroyed for 20 years by the us and nato. they arrived in turkey. they got a boat from turkey to greece. the greek coastguard spotted them. they punctured the boat and there were a lot of people on the boat. they eventually arrested them and they were sent for pre-trial detention. they are still in prison. they’re facing 50 years of a prison sentence, possibly. this is a shame on europe. frontex are denying people the right to seek asylum. it’s international law. the europe of frontex is not our europe, just as josep borrell’s vision of europe and the rest of the world as a garden versus a jungle is not our vision of europe and the world.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! the electrification and decarbonisation of transport is a key element of the green europe agenda. however, we must remember that no transport operator and no consumer will invest in a low- or zero-emission vehicle if they are not sure that they can use it for their needs, which means fast charging. so if we want to convince europeans to switch to e-mobility, charging cars should be as easy as filling up with gas today. and when you look at the statistics and the number of charging points, you see that we have a lot to do. and we also have to remember that there are countries where most of the electricity is still coming from coal. therefore, in the current socioeconomic and political environment, it can be very difficult to comply with these regulations. but we have to consider the situation. i therefore agree, i support the report and i congratulate the rapporteur. i agree with the commissioner that we need very ambitious targets, but achievable and attainable.
mr president, the proposed regulation sets a number of mandatory national targets for the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure in the eu. alternative fuels: we talk about electricity, we talk about hydrogen, we talk about lng. for the life of me i don’t really understand at this stage how lng can be considered still an alternative fuel, given that the process of everything to do with it is filthy. most of it comes from fracked gas, water tables are destroyed. there is huge methane emissions during the transport process, and we’re talking about buying into contracts with the us for years to come. a lot of it won’t even come on stream for a few years. i think the eu has gone down the wrong path in buying into long-term contracts for lng. it’s not the way forward.
mr president, these are the first main files of the ‘fit for 55’ package that we’ve had to deal with in the tran committee and i have to say, looking on them, i’m not that hopeful that we will meet our environmental goals. i mean, shipping emits 3% of global co2 emissions, yet the international maritime organisation has so far failed to adopt global reduction measures in this field. we, of course, see the same problems with the international civil aviation organisation, which again fails to regulate an international sector, which is aviation. europe has to take a lead in this area with strong regulation but yet we seem happy to bend the knee to the market, expecting industry to deal with this and eat its own profits, if you like. it is not going to happen. at the same time, we see a major u-turn on alternative fuels to include lng. this is an absolute sick joke. it is against energy independence and environmental preservation. it makes a mockery of what we’re trying to do. the future of humanity depends on us doing a lot better.
the following are one-minute speeches on important political questions (rule 172).
mr president, we cannot begin to understand what the community in donegal has been going through for the past ten days since the explosion in a service station and an apartment block. the tragedy in creeslough stole ten precious lives from a very small rural community in the north west of ireland. no words can comprehend what the families and those who are still working tirelessly on the front lines have gone through and are continuing to go through in the process. and it is important we honour the lives lost and share our support, solidarity and hope from the european parliament to the community in donegal. a book of condolences will be placed outside the epp group meeting room here in the parliament for all colleagues, staff and friends as we stand together as a european community with heartfelt sympathies. i want to thank for the support shown to the people of creeslough and donegal, and i also share my thanks to the president of our european parliament, roberta metsola.
mr president, the russian invasion of ukraine has highlighted the urgent need for the european union to acquire a geopolitical role in its neighbourhood and in the world. we live in a time when authoritarian regimes are attacking our democratic societies. war-mongering violators of international law are not dealt with with soft power; putin and erdogan are not met with statements of concern. we will not secure our energy security, our economic, environmental, technological objectives without our own geopolitical role, with common defence and security. the russian invasion of ukraine, however, also exposed a huge hypocrisy. there is a regime that has exploited immigrants, that is imprisoning dissidents and kurds, that is occupying european union territory in the republic of cyprus, that is intervening in libya, in the eastern mediterranean, in the aegean. we cannot indulge it with statements of concern, but we must at last move to sanctions.
mr president, production of green hydrogen is inextricably linked to the availability of large quantities of renewable electricity. in an irish context, that means implementing an ambitious offshore wind energy strategy with urgency. green hydrogen will be the clean fuel that drives our long—distance public transport systems, our marine transport and heavy goods vehicles, and it will not only be electric batteries due to the discharge requirements and recharging capabilities. we need to ramp up our offshore wind electricity generation to give us the ability to electrolyse water to give us the green hydrogen our economy needs. ireland sadly suffers from regulatory inertia, and this often stops us from being first movers. the eu adopted its own hydrogen strategy in 2020, with updates since then, but ireland has consistently lagged behind. similar to anaerobic digestion, ireland doesn’t need any more pilot projects. we don’t need any evidence base anymore. we just need to ensure that we use the technologies that are already there and evidence—based by use across the european union. ireland easily has the capacity to generate over 30 gigawatts of wind—powered electricity, if it can get its act together with regard to wind energy and planning. our target of five gigawatts by 2030 is relatively low, and we must aim to do an awful lot better.
mr president, in may of this year, israeli soldiers shot and killed journalist shireen abu akleh. the eu condemned it. a month later, president von der leyen flew to tel aviv and signed a multi-million euro deal for israeli gas. last month, israel raided palestinian civil society organisations, which are funded by the eu. the eu condemned it. in the last few days, a city the size of cork has been besieged by the israeli army. josep borrell said the situation was just ‘worrisome’. now he must tell us how many human rights violations are permitted before facing consequences from the eu. how many more journalists murdered? how many schools and neighbourhoods demolished? how many internments? how many sieges before the eu acts on apartheid?
mr president, i bring to this house today the sos of the european tuna-fishing vessels in senegal, which may end up in the scrap yard if the european commission does not unblock the payment of the aid they need to survive. they had valid licenses. they paid for them. an unforeseeable, arbitrary and unfair decision by the senegalese government left them stranded in port for five months without fishing rights. accumulated losses, inflation affecting many of their costs, and the bad season in the two months they have been able to work have put them in a critical situation. it can be reversed. it is enough to apply the provisions for cessation of activity due to force majeure provided for by the european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund. hundreds of european and senegalese jobs are at stake. the risk is that ships with a sustainable and artisanal track record will end up in the scrap heap. commissioner sinkevičius does not reply to your letters or to the repeated requests of many members. if you are truly in favour of sustainable fishing by the european sector, then listen to this sos and solve this issue immediately.
mr president, the reduction in agricultural activity in my country, galicia, is one of the main causes of the demographic decline of the galician countryside. the abandonment of agricultural land, the increase in energy prices, the high dependence on inputs from the external market, as well as the increase in prices, make many producers go through a tremendously complicated situation, without the galician government worrying. instead of having corn for the animals, we have eucalyptus, which prevents the possibility of growing grain at competitive prices. from strasbourg i want to express our solidarity with the farmers, producers and herders of my land who are suffering from the speculative prices of inputs. it is more expensive to produce and structural measures are needed to reduce dependence on other markets. a country that loves its rural areas must put producers at the centre of the recovery of the agricultural system and not replace the producers of the land by speculative macro-enterprises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the elections in bosnia and herzegovina were held 15 days ago and not all the votes have been counted yet. it seems that some members of the electoral boards voted for voters who did not vote, and one even signed himself repeatedly instead of the voters he voted for. in addition, željko komšić, who was elected as a croatian representative, received less than one percent of the vote in the areas where croats live. i don't care what his nationality is or what his blood count is. he was elected by the votes of the bosniaks and therefore can only represent them. so now the bosniaks have two representatives in the three-person presidency, the serbs one, and the croats none. it's all the fault of the european institutions and the high representative who not only support but encourage these kinds of attacks on democracy. we can't expect democratic development in bosnia if the elections are so undemocratic. so we need a change in the electoral law that will guarantee the legitimate representation of constituent peoples and increase technical means such as the introduction of fingerprints because bih has the right to a democratic and european perspective.
mr president, israel's systematic and brutal aggression against palestine and its people, which continues unpunished, and its repeated violation of international law, are only possible with the connivance and support of the united states of america and the european union. we therefore denounce and condemn the escalation of provocations, violence and destruction of palestinian property by the israeli government and the expansion of settlements, israel's strategy of annexing east jerusalem, with attempts to expel the palestinian population, particularly in the sheikh jarrah district, the zionist incursions around the al-aqsa mosque, the use of administrative detention, the worsening of the blockade of gaza, a territory experiencing one of the most serious humanitarian crises in the world, a persistent israeli aggression that seeks to undermine the deliberations of relevant un resolutions and the path towards the construction of the independent palestinian state, with the 1967 borders with its capital in east jerusalem. all solidarity with the heroic struggle of the palestinian people and their inalienable national rights.
mr president, the european parliament will soon award the sakharov prize, although obviously the decision does not rest with meps, but rather with the conference of presidents. and, of course, sakharov was a dissident in his hemisphere, and in recognition of that, we award a prize in his name every year. the sakharov prize should be for the exercise of intellectual freedoms, and it is in that way we seek to oppose those freedoms everywhere. but, of course, instead we have traditionally used this as a stick to appease our so-called enemies. so this year, for once, why don’t we do something for what it’s really supposed to be about? today, freedom of thought is under threat at home. julian assange is a dissident in our own hemisphere. he’s persecuted not by our so-called opponents, but by our like-minded partners for upholding the essential responsibilities of a journalist, holding power to account for exposing the war crimes in iraq and afghanistan. if we recognise assange with the sakharov prize, it can deliver a genuine victory for freedom of thought. instead of harping on about human rights in places where we have no power, for once we have a chance to do something meaningful. so let’s organise to have the award of the sakharov prize for julian assange.
mr president, freedom of speech is precious. without it, democracy would not exist. with social media, the marketplace of ideas has been enhanced in an unprecedented way. however, this comes with responsibility. disinformation and fake news are a threat to the freedom of speech. there is a difference between information and affirmation. we can debate about differences of opinion, and in many cases there are different sides to a story. but there is a difference between facts and opinions. it is not because we have strong convictions that we should resort to disinformation, or worse, start believing in conspiracy theories. freedom of speech is a cornerstone of western civilisation. let us use it wisely and responsibly.
mr president, tens of thousands of people from haiti have been protesting against the us—installed regime of ariel henry. now the puppet leader is calling for foreign military intervention to crush the protests and the us have been looking for backing at the un security council for the same. the last thing the people of haiti need now is another foreign military intervention called in by a despised leader that doesn't even have a proper mandate to govern. the people of haiti had their own solution to the crisis – it's called the montana agreement. a commission was set up in august last year by a wide range of civil society groups and they signed an agreement, and it was to be implemented beginning in february. but the us and the un and others blocked it. the haitian people need an end to foreign interference. they've been interfered with for 200 years. they're not allowed to think independent. the west has destroyed the place. they've done everything to cripple the place for years. and now they certainly need an end to foreign interference, not more foreign boots on the ground. we said we were interested in sovereignty when ukraine was invaded by russia. are we not interested in sovereignty when it comes to haiti? does that not count because it doesn't suit us imperialism?
the verb is 'to live' and not 'to survive', whereas survival is the reality for more and more people. more and more people at the beginning of the month do not know how to pay their rent, their bills or their groceries at the end of the month. the current crisis shows the vulnerability of our essential services. energy prices are subject to the power of the market and the whims of autocrats. the european plans for an energy ceiling and a tax on usury profits help to contain the worst of the blows, but i think we need to look beyond the symptoms and look at the underlying disease. the european pillar of social rights states that we all have the right to decent access to essential services such as energy, water and transport. europe must guarantee this, because it is a solid foundation on which people can build their lives.
mr. chairman, please. politics is often made up of unpleasant choices, and this is certainly one of them. europeans are under pressure, winter is coming, europe will be hit hard by history. should we, as politicians, intervene in the face of a well-functioning market in an attempt to create emergency solutions? the immediate answer would be no. but we cannot leave the europeans in the lurch. we are facing an extraordinary crisis and it requires extraordinary solutions. the crucial thing now is that the solution we come up with actually ensures that the energy market continues to function so that prices can regulate themselves, also in the future, and so that investors also in the future want to invest in green energy. but right now, it's about getting through the winter, and that requires extraordinary solutions.
mr president, in an age of private yachts and super-jets, as the super—rich get richer, it is time for windfall taxes. five months ago this week, on 19 may, this house adopted a resolution calling for a windfall tax on energy companies. but two weeks ago, we rejected a call for a tax on the excessive profits of corporations benefiting from the crisis. while we’ve been debating this tax for five months, households across europe have seen their energy costs soar, small businesses shut down, and millions are falling below the energy poverty line. we have solutions: introduce a windfall tax, differentiate between fossil fuels and renewables and share the revenues with households. we also need to ban evictions and disconnections and we need to increase the minimum wage to a living wage. the crisis is here right now. households and small businesses are experiencing it and it’s not far off in the future. so now is the time for action.
mr president, i welcome the reactive measures, such as the proposed introduction of a windfall tax, but it should not have taken european leaders over 236 days of a crippling crisis to introduce such measures. while this debate focused primarily on using the windfall tax mechanism on fossil fuel companies, we must utilise this instrument for the large building suppliers and supermarkets. ensuring families, feeding their families and building their homes and growing their businesses can survive the coming weeks and months. in addition, it is incredibly important we recognise that the cost of living crisis is affecting people’s mental wellbeing. following this debate, we will lead a dedicated discussion on mental health. these two discussions are connected now more than ever. this emphasises the need for a comprehensive eu approach to mental health and not just talking about in times of crisis, but as a cornerstone for all 27 member states.
mr president, we talk a lot, but the result, in my view, is negative for the economy and society. if we want to break the deadlock, we must first change the way the energy market operates in relation to natural gas, which is our weakest point because of putin. secondly, we have to decouple the wholesale price of electricity from the wholesale price of natural gas. thirdly, we must, as has been said, limit the surpluses and tax them quickly. fourthly, and this is very important, we must stop sending so much money to putin. it is characteristic that greece, my country, sent in august 1.2 billion euros for russian natural gas and oil; three times the amount compared to august 2021. it is not possible to attack an aggressive war like this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, it makes sense to tax the windfall profits of energy companies. but the rate proposed, 33%, is way too low. if the tax is calculated only on excess profits, the rate should be at least double that and in some cases 100%. this should not be a one—off tax. we need a permanent windfall tax mechanism, one that applies to all sectors. it should apply to any company that makes excess profits off problems of others. we need a windfall tax on the profits of weapons manufacturers. just look at the profits and share prices of the eu arms industry of late – rheinmetall, thales, airbus, leonardo. and long before the war in ukraine, these companies were making a fortune off the misery of the people in yemen by supplying arms to the saudi—uae coalition that are committing a genocide there, the worst humanitarian crisis on the planet at the moment. why do we allow these companies to make crazy profits off the misery of others?
mr president, these are not normal times. this is not a free market. this is a market that’s been held to ransom by putin. so we do need to have extraordinary measures put in place. i very much welcome the proposals around a windfall tax. we do need to show in solidarity with citizens, with small businesses, with families that simply are unable to afford electricity bills and other gas utility bills in the weeks and months ahead. member states have gone to extraordinary levels in some countries to try and buffer the impact that inflation is having on people. but the european union must do more in terms of bringing forward a windfall tax, a solidarity tax, that can be dispersed to people and entities and businesses that most need it. we also need to be brave in the area of decoupling of the wholesale electricity price from gas prices. we can’t have a situation where we are continually blackmailed, held to ransom by putin and his cronies in the efforts to keep the lights on, businesses going and families warm this winter. we do need to be brave. we do need to change how we price electricity in europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, council representatives, i welcome this much—needed debate and our parliament’s support of it. commissioner, you’ve been dedicated to our citizens’ mental health long before your mandate as our health commissioner began, and i want to thank you for your continued support. at this very podium last month, in her state of the union, president ursula von der leyen proposed a dedicated initiative for mental health. finally, a commission president who is listening to the thousands of europeans who demand and expect their mental health to be supported by our eu. in the past 10 to 15 years, our citizens have faced the great recession in 2008, brexit and nearly three years of pandemic, and are now facing great uncertainty with inflation, the cost of living, an energy crisis, a climate crisis and multiple wars. we desperately need to understand that mental health is about being proactive and preventative in our care and should never solely focus on existing in a stressful cycle of reactive support. we need the initiative introduced by the president to promote well—being. we need the initiative to protect the rights of people who live the experience of mental health and tackle the stigma and discrimination they face on a daily basis. we need each of our 27 eu ministers responsible for mental health, working collectively with experts and organisations, but not just in silo. creating an eu mental health strategy is now needed more than ever, and we need that strategy to be implemented in weeks, not years. these are the actions we need to tackle to improve the daily lives of millions of our eu citizens.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome this debate, it is a debate that i feel on my skin, since my late father was hospitalised for bipolar disorder after learning that my mother had alzheimer's. i never thought i'd be in the shoes of so many families. that's why i support this debate and the galician mental health movement. in my country we are below the european average. there is a shortage of psychologists and psychiatrists in health centres, hospital units for children and young people. more than 10,000 galicians are waiting for a consultation. prevention is lacking. and last year there were 331 suicides. to fight against alienation, suicide, stigma, discrimination, stereotypes, material and emotional deprivation, poverty and the undignified work that often causes mental health. that's why it's so important to strengthen public health to address mental health. here and in my country.
mr president, access to mental health care is a human right, and it’s linked to the fact that poverty is a violation of human rights. the right to timely access to affordable, preventive and curative health care of good quality is enshrined in un and eu conventions. yet, in ireland, more than 4 200 children are on the waiting list for the children and adolescent mental health service. more than 520 children are waiting for over a year. ireland spends 6% of its health budget on mental health: less than half than a lot of other countries in europe. commissioner, i realise that health remains a member state competency, but in ireland, we have a medicalised mental health model that’s a disaster. can the eu pressure ireland to invest seriously in public health talk therapy? after all, the eu were able to pressure us into bailing out failed useless banks, which actually has had a huge impact on mental health in ireland.
europe’s age of innocence came crashing down around us on 24 february this year. but in advance of the invasion of ukraine by our psychopathic neighbour in the kremlin, the russian navy were off the south—west coast of ireland the previous month, in january 2022. they were observing undersea cables where the most dataflow between the united states of america, europe and the uk takes place, where there is the most critical infrastructure in terms of communications, digital flow, dataflow, financial transactions, law, the internet and all the connectivity of a modern world in terms of digital connectivity. from that perspective, commissioner, i would like to ask, how do you see this particular directive assisting the irish government, the irish defence forces and others in ensuring that we have some level of resilience, we have some level of observance as to what is happening in the vast oceans around the west coast of the european union and how we will put measures in place? bearing in mind not every country there is a member of a military organisation.
on the 14 may 2021, there was a devastating cyberattack on the irish healthcare system, on the hse. it ground it to a halt and cost lives in loss of data, loss of information, cancellation of appointments for people. so from that perspective, i just urge the commission, knowing fully that they are very conscious of the threats in terms of cybersecurity, that this would be put front and centre as well as to the physical elements with regard to the digital concerns that are out there. nis, dora and the many other areas that this parliament has debated must be a critical part of any measures we put in place to address cyber attacks, both physical and digital.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, colleagues, the brutal murder of two young men in slovakia last week was chilling and shocking. chilling and shocking because in 2022 many of us were hoping that hate crimes such as this were a thing of the past. and let us be clear, this was a hate crime. this attack took place outside a well-known gay bar in the city centre, a safe haven for many people in bratislava. this was not only an attack on the lgbtqi+ community, but this was attack on all of our european values – let’s make no mistake about that. this is one serious case. but attacks on the lgbtqi+ people are happening in all eu countries with alarming regularity. the lgbtqi+ community in slovakia and indeed across europe are still subject to hate-filled rhetoric, which is often driven by some politicians – let’s be clear, they don’t show much leadership on this, quite the opposite – and by extremist groups, which in the end leads to the sort of situation that we have just seen. hate, intolerance and intimidation towards this community still exists in europe, and it must be challenged on every opportunity and every place that we see it being used. i commend the immediate, massive and positive response of slovak civil society and citizens to the murders as seen in the many marches across the country and abroad. and i call on all european governments and the european commission to show a genuine commitment to making meaningful progress in the protection of the lgbtqi+ people by ensuring a zero-tolerance approach to the physical, verbal and psychological abuse that the community is suffering. we need to continue to work on these issues.
mr president, hate kills. tepláreň bar, once a safe space for bratislava’s lgbti+community, has now fallen silent, with flowers lining the pavement outside following the homophobic murder of matusz and juraj. backsliding on lgbti+ rights is a growing issue within our eu, with europe’s lgbti community increasingly living in fear and experiencing high levels of verbal and physical violence. words prompt actions and rhetoric incites hatred. this gunman was motivated by far—right ideology, which has been fuelled by the reckless and irresponsible statements of politicians. i stand with the two victims and the thousands of people who took part in the vigil for them, demanding action on lgbti+ rights, demanding safety and demanding respect. i send my sincerest condolences to the family and friends of both victims. we continue our work for equality in their name.
mr president, in the europe of schengen and crossborder cooperation, five huge stones have been cut since january 2021 at the coll de banyuls border crossing between the northern and southern parts of catalonia, on the border between france and spain. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the region is not affected by the new restrictions imposed by the council. the criteria used by france at the time to justify the closure and its three-fold extension cannot in any way be compatible with the criteria of necessity and proportionality referred to in the judgment of the court of justice of the european union. commissioner, please enforce this sentence, reopen the coll de banyuls and restore freedom of movement there too.
mr president, i suppose the first thing to say is it’s very nice to be vindicated. for years, we’ve been raising the illegality of internal schengen border controls, and it’s really good to see the ecj rule unequivocally that they are illegal. and congratulations to stefan salomon, who took the case in the first place. but the issue actually is what has happened since the ruling was made in april. and the answer, of course, is absolutely nothing. countries with illegal border controls still have them. germany, france, austria, sweden, all the countries that cry blue murder about rule of law in hungary are just ignoring the judgment and doing whatever they like regardless. and the commission has done nothing to force them to implement it. france has had its schengen border controls for seven years, for god’s sake, it’s absolutely farcical. and the latest thing they want is to change the law to suit themselves so that they can keep their border controls as long as they like. so ignoring the law, ignoring ecj rulings on the law, and changing the law to suit yourself, it’s what you give out about poland and hungary for . we can’t have one rule of law ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the court of justice finds that border controls within schengen are incompatible with eu law. it criticises the commission for being so slow to intervene when member states decide to impose internal border controls. why doesn’t the commission hold member states to account for breaches of the free, agreed movement of people within the schengen area? why does the eu give member states a wide latitude to do what they want as long as they’re keeping out migrants? it’s the external borders where the greatest abuses occur, where the eu tacitly endorses migrant pushbacks unless member states build steel walls against people, many of whose homes and communities and environments we have helped to destroy in the first place. it is positive that the court has reaffirmed the illegality of internal border controls. but are we going to see the eu respect human rights of the people that we are talking about? and are the eu going to start respecting their own eu law?
mr president, for the first time the european parliament is calling for un financing mechanism for climate reparations. and i have to say i really welcome that, because the sick truth about the climate crisis, as so many colleagues have pointed out, is that it’s the poorest in society, those least responsible, who are always the hardest hit. and, therefore, it is only right that those actually responsible for climate destruction are the ones who end up paying up. and that’s not about me and you digging deeper into our pockets and being charitable. no, we need to deal with the extreme polluters in society, not your neighbour driving to work or your granny going on overseas holidays. it’s the super-wealthy who are taking up an outrageous amount of our carbon space and getting away with it. this is where we need to start and, therefore, i’d encourage support for our amendments 13 and 16 on carbon inequality and curtailing private jet use. the richest 10% are responsible for over half of all carbon emissions. private jet use is up to 30% higher than pandemic. this is madness. we need to get rid of our climate guilt and replace it with outrage.
mr president, is there something special about the military sector that makes its emissions not matter? since the reporting of military emissions is voluntary, it doesn’t happen. it only begs the question: why are we hiding the climate impact of the military industrial complex from public knowledge? estimates put the military sector at around 6% of all global co2 emissions – 6%. just remember that the global aviation is responsible for 2.5%, and the whole of africa with 1.2 billion is responsible for 4%. and yet, we never talk about what damage the military is doing. we tell ordinary people to turn their lights off and say nothing to the military industrial complex. what about demilitarisation? what about peace? did anyone spare a thought about the climate impact of shovelling over 3 billion into ukraine’s war resistance? what country did a climate impact assessment when increasing their military budget? without peace we will not have a stable climate. war is a climate change steroid and many people in here seem to be hooked on it.
mr president, the european union, and france in particular, was on hand to welcome ukrainian citizens who wished to leave their country to escape the war. thanks to the temporary protection status, all women, children and elderly people who wanted to leave ukraine were able to do so and were welcomed with dignity in the different territories of europe. today, there are nearly 4 million. such a welcome is possible, however, only if our countries do not keep illegal immigrants on their territory, who have no business being there. of the 10 illegal immigrants who have had their asylum applications rejected, nine, or 90%, are still in france in violation of our laws. the only solution to this weakness of our governments is to force asylum seekers to apply abroad and to ban any study of the case of those who have not complied with this rule. those who distort the right to asylum from its object are not only insulting the tradition of welcoming refugees which is the pride of france and europe. they also insult peoples like the ukrainian people, who deserve a dignified and humane welcome from us.
mr. chairman, i'm not sure i understand. what is the impact of the russian invasion? it shows that the main impact is on the suffering of the ukrainian people, but it also shows their courage. and i believe that tomorrow the european parliament will recognize this courage by awarding the sakharov prize to the ukrainian people. the impact of migration is on the member states, and i would like to remind you that the czech republic is also hosting more than 450 000 refugees. we love doing it, they're our friends, but it costs millions. and we also expect the european union to show solidarity and help not only morally but also financially to bear these costs of providing the necessities of life. temporary protection works, it's been said here, but it also works because it's targeted. it is not a solution for everyone, especially not for russian refugees, even though they, if they are eligible, deserve asylum.
mr president, putin tries to destroy and depopulate ukraine. his objective is to create millions of refugees and destabilise the european union. he already tried it in 2021 through lukashenko. since the russian invasion in ukraine, he developed this kind of hybrid war at an unprecedented scale. nevertheless, his effort to destabilise eu member states had exactly the opposite effect. european citizens, governments, regional and local authorities warmly welcomed millions of ukrainian refugees. a new dynamic was created in favour of european unification and ukraine’s eu membership. european solidarity proved an effective answer to putin’s hybrid war. let us build on our big european success by increasing funding.
mr president, human suffering across the world is at unprecedented levels and the number of people in need of humanitarian assistance at an all—time high. even before the war in ukraine, 82 million people were facing food insecurity and 86 million people were displaced and undoubtedly those figures are far higher now. but here in europe, we’ve built a fortress to keep them out and the walls are just getting higher. visas for afghans have dried up and as the un humanitarian coordinator for somalia put it, funds for emergencies are drying up too because ukraine seems to suck all the oxygen that is in the room. in brussels, afghan men are put on the streets and the red cross closes its operation to everybody except ukrainians. i am glad and proud of our prompt and broad welcome for all ukrainian refugees. but, afghans didn’t start the war and somali children aren’t trying to keep it going. so why should they suffer from our two—tier racist migration policy? it’s not good enough. we need to work on this and work to end the war.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in europe a child is reported missing every two minutes, about 300 000 in one year according to amber alert, and in my country, italy, in the first quarter of 2022 alone, 3 589 children went missing. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the child is protected. as co-chair of the intergroup on the rights of the child, i therefore strongly support the establishment of a comprehensive framework at european level for missing children, aimed at strengthening the relevant legislation, possibly also by extending the mandate of the european centre for the fight against sexual abuse online, in order to ensure the coordination of hotlines at union level, strengthen cooperation between the competent authorities and support ngos operating in the different countries of the union.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for your commitment. we must certainly support the instruments and organisations that we have, whether it is the schengen information system, whether it is missing children. i rise at this moment to remind you of our commitment to helping ukrainian abducted children. these kids aren't missing, they're alive, but we don't know where. these children were taken from their homes. there's a lot of them. we know that these abducted children, according to official sources, are at least seven and a half thousand. i am remind ing you of this because on 15 september the european parliament called on international organisations, the european commission and the member states to cooperate in reaching the russian camps where these children were taken, the so-called 'filtration camps', so that these children could be found, identified and, above all, returned to their parents and to ukraine. i think this is our commitment that we have to get.
member of the commission. – madam president, i’ve been listening carefully to your intervention, and i think that today’s discussion illustrates the importance of providing an immediate and comprehensive response to missing children and missing persons. cross-border, regional and international cooperation and exchange of knowledge and information are key. many of you raised the issue of a database. we have a database in the schengen information system. it’s important, i said it in the beginning. we have 115 000 active alerts right now in the schengen information system. we have more than 7 000 hits every year when they got the connection. just to give you one example. in 2018, a 14-year-old girl from connaught in ireland was reported missing from a care home. when ireland joined the schengen information system, just a few months later in 2021 – three years later – when they connected to the system, they got a hit and found this girl at a railway station in switzerland unaccompanied. and that could connect the police and the social workers in ireland and switzerland, and the girl could be rescued and protected. so this database is really important and in november, we will have the next generation, so to say, of the schengen information system with even better possibilities. i am committed to continue work on this very, very important subject to further improve cooperation, making the most of all our tools and system, and continue doing that for the protection and promotion of the rights of missing children and missing persons at risk.
this conversation is over.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the designation of the russian federation as a state sponsor of terrorism (2022/2896 ((rsp)).
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, i speak this evening on behalf of high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the european commission josep borrell. the european parliament has played an important role in demonstrating strong support to ukraine and supporting the robust actions of the european union. we are at a turning point in this war. on the one hand, ukraine has been defending itself successfully for nearly eight months, recently pushing back the russian army and liberating territories from the russian occupation. on the other hand, president putin is continuing along the dangerous path of escalation. russia has declared an annexation of four ukrainian regions following sham referenda, conducted military mobilisation and again threatened the use of weapons of mass destruction. what is more, the russian military has intensified its brutal strikes on ukrainian cities, civilian targets, including energy facilities. this is yet another lie that we have been hearing constantly from the russian side, that the russian military is conducting an operation targeting military objects only. in reality, the more the russian army is being pushed back and defeated on the battlefield, the more it is targeting civilian objects with an attempt to frighten the ukrainian society and weaken its resolve. russia’s war of aggression against ukraine grossly violates international law and international humanitarian law, and it is causing massive loss of life and injury to civilians. russia is directing attacks against the civilian population and is targeting civilian objects, including hospitals, medical facilities, schools and shelters. these horrifying atrocities and war crimes must stop immediately. those responsible for these war crimes and their accomplished accomplices will be held to account. while the eu does not have a legal framework in place to designate a third country as a state sponsor of terrorism, we take note of such decisions at a national level or through resolutions of parliamentary assemblies, like the one of the council of europe a few days ago. as you know, the eu can impose restrictive measures on daesh and al-qaeda, and persons and entities associated with or supporting them. in addition, the so-called eu terrorist list was established in response to the attack on 11 september 2001. the eu has imposed unprecedented sanctions against the russian leadership, including measures against individuals and entities, as well as sectoral measures under several geographic sanctions regimes. the eighth sanction package was adopted on the 6 october 2022, and it includes sectoral measures, notably the extension of import—export bans, crypto restrictions, the extension of the full transaction ban on several additional russian banks, and the introduction of the legal basis for the price cap on russian oil. second, the listing of 30 individuals and seven entities, including those who organised and facilitated the illegal referenda, individuals and entities in the defence sector, as well as actors who spread disinformation about the war. fourth, introduction of a new listing criterion to target individuals and entities facilitating the infringement of the prohibition of the circumvention of sanctions, and extension of the restrictive measures applying to the occupied territories of luhansk, kherson and zaporizhzhia. russian threats do not shake our determination, resolve and unity to stand by ukraine as long as it takes. at this turning point, we must remain strong and united, morally and politically. russia has already lost the war, and increasingly is losing on the battlefield as well. ukraine will prevail. thank you for your support. thank you for your attention.
in the name of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner johansson, since the start of putin's brutal war of aggression against ukraine in february this year, this european parliament has done everything possible to support all the actions taken by the european union to respond. firstly, it is a gigantic, direct neighbour of the european union - the russian federation - which has a direct border with the european union in the three baltic republics, in finland and in poland, in the kaliningrad enclave. secondly, on the humanitarian front, with the temporary protection directive, but also by adopting sanctions against the assets of russian oligarchs and confiscating their property and, of course, by adopting legislative measures such as the reform of the eurojust regulation, precisely to support joint investigation teams and the investigation undertaken by the prosecutor's office of the international criminal court of war crimes, even knowing that russia is not a signatory to the international criminal court. but the view of russia as a state which directly finances or supports terrorist activities on european soil requires that the european union frame it within an expression of a will to mature rapidly in its common foreign and security policy and in its common defence policy and, in short, to assert itself once and for all, as this european parliament wants, as a globally relevant power.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, do we have enough evidence that russia is committing state terrorism during the war of aggression against ukraine? yes indeed. at this very moment, russia is carrying out massive missile strikes against ukrainian cities and critical infrastructure. it is enough to remember the strikes on the kramatorsk railway station and the mariupol theatre, with clear indication that it sheltered children. cities such as mariupol, volnovakha, rubizhne, popasna, lyman and severodonetsk were completely destroyed. in some of them, massive graves as in bucha, irpin and izyum were discovered. more than 400 ukrainian children have been killed and more than 700 wounded since the beginning of the russian invasion. more than 2 600 educational institutions have been destroyed or damaged as a result of russian terrorist attacks. we must recognise and include russia among the state sponsors of terrorism. putin and his government must be held accountable before an international tribunal. only then will justice be served.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, ‘state sponsor of terrorism’ is a term of us law; it doesn’t exist in eu law. but a zelenskyy adviser called for it in the parliament magazine, and here we are again reporting for duty. and all it will do is make peace harder to achieve – exactly, of course, what the extremists want: no peace, no off-ramps, all bridges burning and ukraine a permanent abattoir in a suicidal holy crusade against russia. so if you want to start naming state sponsors of terrorism, let’s do it: european sponsorship of israeli terrorism in palestine; western sponsorship of saudi terror in yemen; isis, the product of french, american, british, turkish and gulf sponsorship in syria and iraq; decades of right-wing, us-backed terrorism against the cuban revolution; the contras in nicaragua; death squads in guatemala, in el salvador. remember vietnam, laos, cambodia: horror after horror, terror after terror. there’s nothing constructive about the pot calling the kettle black. would you ever cop on, start championing peace, an end to the war, which is patently in the interests of eu, ukrainian and russian citizens.
madam president, when russia drops bombs on built—up areas in ukraine, i have no doubt that the people in ukraine underneath the bombs are terrorised. it’s a form of terrorism. when the us and nato bombed afghanistan for 20 years and killed several hundred thousand and displaced millions, they were terrorizing the people. a un survey showed that of us—nato bombardments of civilians in afghanistan, 45% of the people killed were children. when the us killed over a million civilians in iraq, was that terrorism? when israel terrorises the palestinian people every day, is that terrorism? when france and the uk and others armed the saudis and the uae to commit genocide in yemen, where the un said that over 400 000 are dead and 16 million are starving because of a genocide being carried out with the support of the us, the uk, france and several european states, is that terrorism? when are ye going to wake up and start living in the real world?
i apologize for the confusion in this last speech. you have spoken so much, one more closing speech commissioner johansson.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, good evening, bear witness on your continued support for ukraine and for the steps undertaken in reaction to the russian war on ukraine. we need to maintain attention to the terrible casualties and the destruction caused by russia in ukraine. thousands of civilians have been murdered, many more tortured, harassed, raped, kidnapped or forcibly displaced. russia must be held accountable for the crime it has committed. ukraine has managed to withstand russia’s aggression. it has been possible thanks to the bravery of the ukrainian people and its leaders. it has also been possible thanks to our support, and we will continue with our support as long as it takes.
i apologize for the confusion in this last speech. this conversation is over. the vote will take place at the november part-session. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. – we can no longer delay the recognition of the russian federation (rf) as a terrorist state and state sponsor of terrorism. the rf’s deliberate and systematic attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure in ukraine are by their very nature terroristic – the kremlin seeks to instrumentalise the fear and suffering of the ukrainian people and to paralyse the ukrainian state’s decision-making capabilities and occupy more ukrainian territory. these acts of terrorism are being conducted with the approval of the highest levels of the kremlin and russian military command. therefore, russia’s political and military leadership must be prosecuted under the auspices of a special international tribunal. furthermore, russia’s designation as terrorist state must facilitate the confiscation of its foreign frozen assets and reserves, as well as their utilization for the rebuilding of ukraine. russia’s ongoing campaign of terrorism is consistent with moscow’s long track record in ukraine since 2014, in syria, libya, sudan, georgia, and chechnya. the latvian and estonian parliaments have already declared russia a ‘state sponsor of terrorism’. it is time that similar decisions are taken at the european level and around the world.
in writing. he was also involved in the illegal 'governmental' activities of the so-called 'government of the donetsk people's republic'. in addition to the russian troops, however, a private army, the so-called wagner group and ramzan kadyrov's troops, are also involved in the fighting on the russian side, characterised by extreme brutality and crimes against the civilian population. it was a huge hypocrisy on the part of vladimir putin to label the attack on the crimean bridge as a terrorist attack, to which he responded with rocket attacks on civilian targets, and therefore it must be important for us to clearly label these and other widespread and serious human rights violations, war crimes and crimes against humanity as supporting terrorism and to insist that the perpetrators be justly punished. a resolution calling for russia to be designated as a state sponsor of terrorism has already been passed by the us senate because of russian actions in chechnya, georgia, syria and ukraine that have resulted in the deaths of women and children. he is also a strong supporter of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. the eu and its member states must be even more united and unambiguous in their support for ukraine, not only politically but also financially, humanitarian and militarily.
we now move on to the explanations of vote.
madam president, the guidelines for employment policies of member states are very important, which is why i voted for this report. but it is not just in europe, but in every part of the globe where eu companies operate that these policies are needed. i had the honour last week of meeting two indigenous leaders from colombia, the victims of an irish and eu company, smurfit kappa, who have operated in the area of cauca for over 50 years. and this company stands accused of a complete failure of due diligence in terms of how it acquired the land, environmental damage from pine and eucalyptus monoculture on land, which was agreed as part of the peace process to be handed over to indigenous people. human rights violations, complete violation of workers’ rights, less than the minimum wage, use of subcontractors, who have to buy their own tools, no insurance when they lose a limb or an arm in this very dangerous job. it’s an absolute embarrassment to ireland and the eu that this company continues to operate in this way with impunity in colombia, and it makes a mockery of the standards that we’re imposing. if we want to level the playing field, we have to ensure that employment policies of member states operate everywhere.
madam president, precarious forms of employment dominate europe’s labour markets, with the rise of the gig economy and zero—hour contracts. the construction sector is rampant with forms of precarious work and irregular contracts. in ireland, there is widespread misuse of the questionable self-employment classification of workers. it helps the better—off to avoid tax, but very often leaves the less well-paid workers vulnerable and largely unprotected by the state. the abuse of irregular contracts leaves workers with income insecurity unprotected by social security without proper pensions, and contributes to the exploitation of migrant workers. within member states, we’ve seen a race to the bottom in terms of the quality of working conditions, despite labour shortages and despite all the talk from the european union. we need stronger rules and regulations to stop these exploitative practices that are driving many european workers into poverty. only today, we were talking about mental health challenges. if you are going to make the people poor, you’re going to make them seriously mentally ill as well.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we in the european parliament have approved the resolution on romania's accession to the schengen area, a process which we have initiated with the support of our colleagues in the european parliament and the social democratic group. the vote of 547 meps out of 639 present demonstrates the real support romania enjoys. unfortunately, there have also been voices against our country, mainly from extremist groups, but also from some meps from the pro-european parties, the ppe, renew and the greens. 49 votes against and 43 abstentions. the only political group that voted unanimously for romania's accession to the schengen area is the social democratic group. in this context, i have already contacted every pro-european mep who has expressed reluctance, to explain why romania deserves to be in the schengen area, to understand the motivation behind their decision and to convince them to change their vote in the european parliament. we will fight with my colleagues to the end for a positive vote for romania in the council on 8 december, so i invite meps from all political parties to do the same and to insist on our country's accession to the schengen area.
madam president, we supported the resolution for romania and bulgaria to join schengen. we see absolutely no good reason why they shouldn’t be allowed to join, and we feel that, for many years, they were discriminated against. western europe were very keen to get a whole number of countries into the eu in 2004. there was two main reasons for it. one of them was to get them into nato and the other one was to access a cheap labour pool that would suit western europe. it just so happened that there was obviously a limit on what they wanted, but it was completely discriminatory not to include romania and bulgaria. since the eu was formed, we have talked so much about the freedom of movement of people and goods, but we are really only good at allowing the free movement of goods, and we were always prepared to discriminate against ordinary people when it suited us.
madam president, commissioner, i welcome the moves towards a real energy union. the cost of living crisis is more than statistics. you are right, tackling the cost of living and the pressures all too real on businesses and families. start with tackling the cost of energy. i welcome yesterday’s commission proposal to further manage the cost of gas and to increase eu joint procurement of energy. we must, however, be ever alert to threats to competitiveness during this period and respond quickly. however, europe can and must do more to alleviate the suffering of our most vulnerable citizens, right now. we need to urgently consider further integrating our energy grids to maximise energy sovereignty and protect eu citizens. however, it is vital that any price cap does not lead to reducing energy supplies in europe or deterring investment. the eu council must make significant and careful progress in developing a full and effective response when it meets. we must ensure that eu citizens are protected from the worst consequences of putin’s war and putin’s winter. he is a war criminal.
madam president, dear colleagues, the findings of the court of auditors are very important. as a matter of fact, the results have shown that the usage of european funds has not been improving. in 2021, 15 cases of suspected fraud have been identified and reported to the european anti—fraud office. consequently, five investigations have already been opened. the suggestion coming from the comparison with the results of 2020 annual report, where only six cases were reported to olaf, it really worries me. on the other hand, this report also shows positive outcomes. it shows that the court of auditors has been doing its work very efficiently and therefore i would like to use this opportunity to express my gratitude for the hard and honest work. moreover, the report also emphasises the high importance of the establishment of the european public prosecutor’s office. nevertheless, when it comes to eu financing, we need to increase the powers of controlling mechanism. eu funds are, after all, assigned to european citizens for improving their quality of life and simplifying their lives, not for enriching individuals.
the european union calls on businesses, member states and citizens to ensure that the money raised from europe is spent responsibly and lawfully. that is entirely justified. but what do we see today? the court of auditors has approved payments from the european union for the third consecutive year and the margin of error for these expenditure has again increased to 3%, well above the 2% threshold. the margin of error for the cohesion fund is almost twice as high, with spain and greece in particular standing out in terms of errors detected. and then the final accountability on the corona recovery fund is yet to come! in short, there is a startling report! three times is ship's right. this parliament must put a stop to this development and the dismissal of various institutions, if only to refuse and to put the brakes on. if we don't, our credibility will be diminished and the taxpayer will say, what are those guys doing there anyway? i can't do this anymore!
madam president, dear commissioner hahn, dear president of the european court of auditors tony murphy, i would first of all like to congratulate you on taking up your duties in a strong institution of the european union. i am convinced that you will further strengthen this institution, make it stronger and make it a real institution in which the european citizens will have unlimited and absolute confidence, because they will feel that with the cooperation of all we can have this institution, which will be the guardian of the interests of the european citizens. but i must stress, from my own experience over all these years in the committee on budgetary control, that the committee on budgetary control in recent years, with the contribution of all our dear colleagues from left to right and under the leadership of our dear chairman, monika hohlmeier, has really succeeded in giving the impression of close cooperation and of all of us working together towards a single objective: to safeguard the interests of the european citizens. and i consider it a happy coincidence that today the european court of auditors, with the committee on budgetary control, in good and full cooperation with the dear commissioner hahn, has the opportunity to really strengthen even more the confidence of the citizens in the institutions and in particular in the european union for the safeguarding of their money.
the president, first of all, welcomes my dear friend tony murphy, who took up his duties as the new court of auditors president earlier this month. i warmly welcome you today, tony. i look forward to your presidency. the 2021 annual report covers an immense amount of work and topics. this year, for the first time, the eca covered the recovery and resilience facility, the main component of the eu's 800 billion next generation eu package. the auditors have also outlined the key findings regarding revenue and the many areas of spending under the eu budget and the european development fund. one of the main purposes of the eca is to highlight shortcomings in the management of eu funds. last year was an extraordinary case, where the eu took bold action in relation to common financing mechanisms. the work of the eca ensures that risks and challenges to eu finances are managed effectively. it is vital for the functioning of the eu to have a full view of risks in relation to eu funds. and the dead are raised, tony, you're the air from the chomhghleacaithe.
i'm going to be a good man. i'm going to be a good man. we have a saying in ireland about "wearing the green jersey", which basically means going out and batting for ireland no matter what. it's not a game that we ever choose to play, because ireland has plenty of shortcomings and we recognise them. but equally, we will call out our successes when they occur and i would like to put on record that it is a tremendous honour for ireland that tony murphy has got this position and, actually, it is a tremendous honour for the eca to have him at the helm of this key institution which doesn't get the focus that it deserves. i would like to salute the work of the aca in scrutinizing how the eu spends its money in terms of whether our citizens get value for money. i often see its reports which points to our failings, but yet we carry on regardless with much of those policies. i note the concerns in the report about the increase in errors. i note the president's concerns about the risk of war in ukraine on the eu budget and the massive transfer of resources that we have around this issue. so i just want to salute him and the organization and hope that we work in this way with this organization, which is evidence-based and so important at the present juncture.
madam president, i too would like to congratulate tony murphy on his appointment as president of the european court of auditors. tony was appointed by his peers, he didn’t get elected by the usual in—house trading. but then i find it interesting as well that none of the fianna fáil has turned up here today. tony comes from ireland and he didn’t come through the political cartel that prevails in ireland. he’s from a working class background, from cabra, and for someone of his ability to reach such a high level in the european union, it makes it a good day for the european union. now, the european court of auditors for me is one of the most reputable entities in this institution, and god knows we don’t find too many of them. just a couple of points, they did a wonderful report on ukraine last year where they were investigating the value for money on 15 billion spent in ukraine by the european taxpayers and found that ukraine was one of the most corrupt countries in europe. sadly that’s been ignored by the warmongers of late. and, the last point, we spent 8 billion in the sahel since 2015, a total waste of money. i’d love to see the european court of auditors investigate value for money there. and lastly, on mozambique, where i was two weeks ago ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, every country should be free to choose the path it wishes to take in order to ensure its prosperity as far as i’m concerned. so if countries in the western balkans want to join the eu, that’s absolutely fine, as long as that’s truly what the citizens desire. but it is very clear from the commission statement, and indeed from many comments of colleagues, that this strategy isn’t motivated by concern for western balkan citizens, but rather it is rooted in a geopolitical power-grab to enlarge our gang so we can keep fighting the russians. they have to choose between russia or us. why, we all live on the same continent? look where that strategy has landed ukraine, when zelenskyy was elected on a platform of making peace with russia. and i find it absolutely ironic that to read the commission statement talking about the necessity of these countries to reinforce democracy and rule of law when we have flagrant breaches in france, spain, bulgaria and so on. traditionally, these countries have been brought into europe to boost nato and to be a pool of cheap labour. it’s about time we started respecting them for their own national rights and develop a cooperation of equals.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner, as co-rapporteur on the proposal for a directive on violence against women and domestic violence, i am working just extensively to ensure women across the union are protected alongside my co-rapporteur, evin incir. with this new directive, we must ensure that standards across europe are raised and that it actually builds on the ground-breaking istanbul convention. however, be prepared for the legal basis of sexual exploitation to be challenged. let us in this chamber make sure that the legal definition of sexual exploitation includes rape and female genital mutilation. if this was to be questioned as we progress with this directive, what an insult that would be to the women of europe and beyond. right now, the european parliament has a chance to create meaningful change. what we actually need is a fully ratified istanbul convention and a strong european directive on this topic. why? because everyone has the right to a life free from violence. however, the pervasiveness of violence against women in our society means that this is not yet a reality for women and girls. one in three women globally will experience sexual or domestic violence within their lifetime. and the statistics are horrifying. overall, every ten years, a city the size of marseilles, amsterdam or zagreb disappears, as 850 000 women are murdered every ten years. even more so in times of war, as we see in ukraine. ukrainian women are experiencing this first-hand, as rape becomes a weapon of war used by russian soldiers for too long, and i think most people in this house agree, there has not been enough action on the issue of violence against women. this is seen most notably in the failure of a number of member states to ratify the istanbul convention. this new directive should provide significant protection to those victims and introduce preventative measures to help address the pervasive nature of this phenomenon. we must ensure that the fundamental rights of women and girls are secured.
on behalf of the ppe group. – (start of speech off-microphone) ... i won’t repeat it all. basically, what i was saying is that the statistics are really horrifying. i don’t need to go into them again here. but let me just give one statistic: overall every ten years, a city the size of marseille, amsterdam or zagreb disappears as 850 000 women are murdered every ten years. i mentioned as well, of course, the ukrainian war and how ukrainian women are experiencing first-hand the fact that rape becomes a weapon of war used by russian soldiers. we need more action, we need it quickly. violence is so pervasive. i hope the new directive will give significant protection to those victims and introduce preventative measures to help address the pervasive nature of this phenomenon, because we have to ensure that the fundamental rights of women and girls are secured. the istanbul convention being fully implemented and a strong directive really gives us that opportunity.
madam president, commissioner, thousands of tunisians were in the streets again this weekend to denounce poverty, to denounce unemployment, to denounce the incessant shortages they are experiencing on a daily basis, called and united, of course, by the opposition, by ennahda, of course, the islamist party in power after the tunisian spring. but nevertheless, the tunisians have been living, for too long, in a double life. the fight against corruption, a cardinal promise of the candidate saïd, remains a dead letter - so far, in any case - and cannot justify this tightening of powers in the hands of the president alone until the dissolution of the tunisian parliament last march. there is no governance without parliament and without counter-powers, without an independent judiciary, without a free press. i want to believe - i heard the first speaker speak about dante - i want to believe in the good intentions of the president, but his path is not the right one. autocracy is never the right way. the european union must of course maintain the essential dialogue, a vigilant dialogue, a demanding dialogue, with its tunisian partner. no freezing, but no tacit support either, because there can be no question of adding to the burden of the tunisians. tunisian democracy is fragile, we must help them rebuild it. 'side with the tunisian people' were your first words, commissioner, and they are more relevant than ever.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the construction of democracy is not a smooth flowing river, it is rather a road full of obstacles. we french know something about it. it took the revolution of 1789, the terrible episode of the terror, and then a long succession of more or less authoritarian regimes, before we finally succeeded, in the 1870s, in stabilizing our democracy. tunisia is living through this difficult but exciting adventure of building its democracy. the 2011 revolution proved the determination of the tunisian people to take their destiny into their own hands. however, serious economic difficulties delayed the achievement of these objectives, to the extent that a section of society was able to succumb to the temptation of islamism. it was in this context of crisis that president saïd assumed full powers in july 2021. i want to believe in his sincerity when he shows his desire to put his country back on its feet and establish a true democracy. he kept his promises. a new constitution was adopted by referendum last august and parliamentary elections will be held in december. ladies and gentlemen, let us put our trust in the game, let us support president saïd, let us help tunisia.
madam president, imf, eu and world bank- forced austerity and neoliberal reforms are ripping apart the social safety net in tunisia, creating a long-running food and fuel crisis that has been made worse by the war in ukraine. the imf is currently forcing the government to reduce food subsidies in exchange for a new loan that would go to pay off previous loans. the debt servicing impacts public spending on education and health care. recent eu assistance is conditional on freezing public sector hiring, which means that they won’t have drivers for the ambulances that we gave them, and a brain drain as well because the qualified doctors will leave and go to europe looking for work. tunisia needs credit to import wheat, fuel and medicine and the political west are engaging in debt-trap disaster capitalism, forcing reforms that are undoing the possibility of a dignified life for millions of people. we worry about migrant flows, but we create them with our neo-colonialism.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the debate today showed a large consensus to remain committed to a strong partnership with tunisia. we are well aware of the challenging circumstances the country is experiencing and of the importance of choices of tunisians in these delicate times, both politically and economically. as high representative / vice—president borrell has repeatedly mentioned, we will continue to be attentive to the developments, and to pass all the important messages clearly but constructively, with the joint objective to see a sustainable future for this important partner.
member of the commission. – dear president, honourable members of the parliament, let me thank this house for again having the situation in belarus on the agenda. in addition to the appalling human rights violations that continue and even worsen, mr lukashenko has become an accomplice in russia’s war of aggression in ukraine. the eu has condemned this involvement of belarus in the aggression against ukraine in the strongest possible terms, and calls on it to refrain from such action and to abide by its international obligations, including under the treaty on the non—proliferation of nuclear weapons. so far, belarussian troops have not taken directly part in the war on the ground in ukraine. on saturday, 8 october 2022, the belarusian government accused ukraine of planning an attack on the territory of belarus, clearly without any foundation. such accusations serve only the purpose of further escalation of the security situation in the region. while belarussian troops have so far most likely not participated directly on the ground, the very recent missile strikes and drone attacks against ukrainian civilians from the territory of belarus are utterly unacceptable. we urge the belarussian authorities to refrain from any further involvement of belarus in this brutal and illegitimate undertaking. it is clear that a large majority of belarussians are against active participation in this war. it would have disastrous consequences for the belarussian population, for ukraine and for the independence and sovereignty of belarus. the decision to get further involved in the war would be met by new and strong restrictive measures. all those taking part in the illegal war of aggression and those responsible for war crimes will be held accountable.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, (start of speech off microphone) ... the powerful defiance of the belarusian people, whose only wish is to live in freedom and dignity, terrifies this regime. now, russia’s losses in ukraine threaten his dictatorship. every single one of lukashenko’s moves today, from his absurd rhetoric and invitation for more russian troops, to his ruthless crackdown on remaining democratic activists and unions, is a blatant sign of his weakness. we should give lukashenko no reason to relax. we must stand ready to help ukraine prevent another assault from belarusian territory and, if necessary, defend itself. inclusion of belarus in the upcoming ninth package is crucial. we must be ready to bring the full force of our sanctions crashing down on the regime the very moment one belarussian army boot crosses the border into ukraine. the battle for ukraine’s freedom is also the fight for a democratic belarus. i therefore urge you, president, but also commissioner, to be creative in this fully unique situation and explore ways for our house and our union to formalise relations with the belarusian people and its democratic representatives in tsikhanouskaya’s united transitional cabinet. ukraine will win. belarus will be free.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, members of the commission, ladies and gentlemen. lukashenka, who has illegally seized power in belarus, continues to support russian aggression and is directly involved in the war against ukraine. last summer, lukashenko launched a hybrid attack against the european union's neighbouring countries of lithuania, poland and latvia, using migrants. today, it enables russia's aggression against ukraine by allowing the use of belarusian territory for deadly attacks, destroying ukrainian cities and killing civilians. in recent statements, lukashenko has speculated in unfounded threats against belarus and has illegally threatened to use military force against peaceful neighbours, including the member states of the european union. i call on the european external action service and the member states to be resolute and finally reduce their diplomatic presence in minsk. and to send belarusian diplomats and occupiers out of their capitals accordingly. it is unacceptable that the same individuals who are proposed to be sanctioned and prosecuted for crimes against humanity are enjoying diplomatic immunity in the west. our solidarity with the belarusian people must remain. we must continue to strongly support the pro-european activities of the belarusian opposition and provide the necessary support. i emphasise the support for the freedom fighters who are fighting for the freedom of ukraine in the battalions of kalinauski and vytsia. i call on the european commission, which is currently preparing the ninth sanctions package, to add to it the belarusian military and officials responsible for the military aggression against ukraine and the repression against belarusian civil society. for our freedom and yours! long live the belarus!
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner, against the will of the belarusian people, the usurper lukashenko turns his country into a bridgehead for he russian army, thus becoming an accomplice in the war of aggression against ukraine. he gave his consent to launches of more than 700 rockets on ukrainian territories and numerous drones. together with putin and other perpetrators of war crimes and crimes against humanity, he has to be brought to justice.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, our problem with lukashenko is that he took sides in the war, just like we did, and we damned everyone that stayed neutral. the special advisor to the commander of ukraine’s army, dan rice, just told cnn that russia is trying to get to the negotiating table to try to go back to the 2014 lines, but ukraine won’t have it. why don’t we start peace talks for a deal based on a version of the minsk 2 agreement, a text that was mediated by the french and the germans? we know this war could have been avoided, and peace talks are an option. but our leaders choose war, even when we know that the majority of europeans do not want war. we tabled an amendment in the last plenary, and we called for the eu and member states to explore all options for a peace deal and to try to end the war. it was defeated 436 votes to 118 against peace. whose interest are these warmongers serving? commissioner, you say that the people of belarus don’t want war. i agree with you 100%, but i think the people all across europe don’t want war. this war – it might suit the us and nato – it does not suit the people of europe. we should be working for peace.
madam president, stolen elections, political prisoners incarcerated, abuse of basic human rights, the list is endless. we saw first—hand in 2020, when lukashenko stole the election and effectively crushed the opposition. we stand with the people of belarus in their hour. but we must do more. we must ensure that we bring forward sanctions, not against the belarussian people but against the regime of lukashenka and his cronies. he is but a putin puppet at this stage. when you look at the fact that troops crossed the border from belarus to ukraine on 24 february this year, where war crimes were committed in bucha and irpin, elsewhere north of kyiv, those troops crossed the border from belarus. lukashenko is as responsible as putin for the bodies that were taken out of those graves in bucha and irpin. so we do need to be very, very powerful in our support of the opposition people, of sviatlana tsikhanouskaya and others who stand for democratic accountability in belarus. we should support them as much as we can in everything we do. and we should bring forward sanctions against the corrupt regime of lukashenko and his cronies.
madam president, but i have to say it takes some neck for irish meps, whose parties in government have allowed three million us troops to use shannon airport on their way to theatres of war in afghanistan and iraq, to come in here and give out about belarus allowing russian troops to do the same on the way to war in ukraine. if belarus has an active role in the war in ukraine, and i believe it does, well then so does europe. we are supplying heavy weapons, tanks and artillery, military assistance, intelligence and logistics – all of these amount to support for a conflict party in international law, violating the law of neutrality, making us all conflict parties, providing a mechanism for a runaway escalation with the profound risk of a world—ending nuclear exchange. so why are we giving out about the sovereign country of belarus for doing exactly what we are doing, albeit on the other side? all third countries, belarus and the eu, should be reducing their role, urging a ceasefire and facilitating a peace agreement.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, this week in kyiv, rather than striking military targets, russian missiles damaged cultural spaces, parks and monuments. one of those missiles cratered a children’s playground, just a few metres from a monument dedicated to taras shevchenko, ukraine’s national poet. russia’s war against ukraine is an attempt to eradicate ukrainian identity, its heritage and its history. these acts, as said by many of my colleagues, amount to a war crime, and targeting these shared spaces where ukrainians come together to celebrate their rich culture is an attempt by russia to break the spirit of the ukrainian community. russia is not just freezing people out. russia is trying to tear communities apart and scare people into isolation. however, russia has and will continue to fail, but that requires our continued support here in the european union. i have seen first-hand the resolve of the ukrainian people when i visited the border last month and met, like many of you, ukrainian community members in our member states. let’s continue to strengthen our solidarity with the people of ukraine through defending and celebrating their culture, their history and, the most important, their future. (the speaker concluded the speech in an unofficial language)
the answer is 'blue card'. mrs. roose, is there no question? there is no question. well, then, let's all proceed by affirmation.
madam president, the shortcomings of the ban on bottom fishing which we are discussing today are well known. i am referring to the indiscriminate use of scientific data, the absence of a socioeconomic impact assessment, the lack of sufficient consultation or the totally unjustified refusal to distinguish between drifting and long-line fishing, contrary to what, for example, ices says. the commission has basically worked with a thick brush and not with a fine brush. this parliament, this house, two weeks ago censured the commission's behaviour by means of an amendment tabled by my group, the epp. the commission also received unanimous criticism from the parliament of galicia, europe's leading fishing region, and from the four member states concerned (spain, portugal, ireland and france). the first news about the impact of this ban is worrying: in galicia, catches of the species concerned have fallen by up to 60% and turnover has decreased markedly. before this trend can be confirmed, my group and i once again call on the commission to suspend the application of the ban on bottom fishing and to review it as soon as possible. i would remind you that on 15 september, the same day as the adoption of the regulation we are debating today, this parliament adopted a resolution calling on the commission to refrain from proposing any further rules which would endanger our food security. commissioner, we cannot continue to legislate in the food sector as if nothing had happened. there is the war in ukraine and its terrible consequences - multiple consequences, too. at an exceptional time, with the price of the basket soaring, it is not understood that the commission is limiting the fishing of fish caught by the european fleet. there are vulnerable ecosystems, certainly, but our food security, our fishermen and their families are also vulnerable. for all these reasons, i insist that the most sensible thing to do is to suspend the measure. (the speaker agrees to reply to an intervention made under the 'blue card' procedure.)
the answer is 'blue card'. well, i think that in the european union we are having food problems. we have, as you know very well, the problem of cereals and sunflowers. the war in ukraine has triggered a rise in food prices, has contributed to further breaking, or disrupting, the supply chains of food, not just energy. the problem here is that there will be less fish caught by european fleets and therefore prices will also rise. it's a problem because, in effect, this helps to break down, or to reduce, the consumption of a protein, which is also very healthy. we will have to import more from other non-european countries where the fishery is not as sustainable, nor even close to those sustainability criteria, etc., of the european fleet. i therefore believe that there may be, or there will be, a problem of food security in europe, when we talk so much about strategic security, strategic autonomy. i think that is why it is a very unfortunate measure.
madam president, protecting vulnerable marine ecosystems is critical not only for nature but for people. the fact that we even have to debate here today is shocking. last week, we learnt that nature is in freefall. we have seen a devastating 70% drop in wildlife populations in my lifetime. not even the deep seas are safe from this collapse. yet there are those speaking here in the house today who still are open to more destruction in the oceans, to drilling, to mining, to bottom trawling, even in vulnerable marine areas. we are at the beginning of a process which, if done properly, could result in the greatest decade of marine protection in history. ireland has committed to increasing marine protected areas to 30% by 2030, and even the eu has now decided to move forward with strictly protecting over 16 000 square kilometres of fragile habitats in irish waters from extensive trawling. this is an area the size of cork, kerry, waterford and wexford combined. it is high time now to take this measure and improve on it with national legislation in every member state to establish effective functioning marine ecosystems. it's time to stop nature freefall on land and at sea. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – the evidence is there, and that is why the commission is imposing this act. and the fact that we have vulnerable areas and creating more space for fish and for other species, and to provide them with that protection, is critical. as others have said here today, the benefit of this will be sustainable, resilient fishing into the future. and that’s what we’re trying to do: we’re trying to recognise that the marine ecosystems are in trouble and they are in trouble from destructive fishing practices, and that if we reverse this, we will actually increase the opportunities for fishers, for fisher families, for marine life and for society and people in general.
madam president, we are not fooled by the french game, which behind the scenes continues to act as the best arm of the lobbies of industrial fishing to prevent the closure, from 400 metres deep, of all ecosystems vulnerable to all fishing methods affecting the seabed, which has become absolutely necessary. we are not fooled by spain's attempt to take the commission to the court of justice to block this regulation. all of this says a lot. mrs dalli, i remember in another parliament commissioner damanaki who had already dealt with the harmful action of france and spain to impede the regulation on deep-sea fishing. and fortunately the european parliament was there, commissioner damanaki and the commission were there. stand up to the threats, stand up to the lobbies, because the oceans and marine ecosystems are in great danger today. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' speech)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a 'blue card' intervention. mr omarjee, you normally make very sensible statements, not that you haven't done so today, but i am surprised that you accuse governments like your own, france's or spain's, of defending the interests of the fishing industry and also being very concerned about the environment. but there are things here that the commission has not done well and that is what we are denouncing. so i do not know what you are basing your claim on to say that there is underlying pressure when what is being asked, in the case of the spanish government, is that the data be updated so that appropriate action can be taken. what is your basis for accusing governments, especially my own? if you don't care about french, neither do i, but especially the spanish one is busy. give me your opinion.
the answer is 'blue card'. i understand your point, but we are here in the european parliament and we are used to embracing the european general interest. and when it comes to challenging the attitudes and positions of the member states in the european council, we do so and there is no need to be emotional about it. i mean, you say you're defending fishermen, but if we continue at the current rate of predation, there will be, and this is the un saying it, not a single fish, shellfish or shellfish available for commercial fishing by 2050, which is tomorrow. so there is an urgent need to act and there is an urgent need to protect the ecosystems in the deep sea, which are in very great danger.
madam president, commissioner, we have no doubt about the importance of marine protected areas in the conservation and recovery of natural resources. we all understand that in certain cases more intensive and potentially harmful exploitation practices are prohibited. what we do not understand and do not accept is a decision-making process which is not transparent, which lacks scientific consistency, which lacks economic and social impact studies and which is aimed at those who live off the sea and derive their income from it. we have said many times that a marine protected area, while very useful, is not an end in itself, it is an instrument of environmental conservation which, when well supported by science and coordinated with all stakeholders, can be decisive, including for those who make fishing their business. it is never too late to remind ourselves that your decisions, our decisions too, affect entire communities of people and families who make their living from fishing. an environmental conservation tool, when misapplied, serves neither the environment nor the economy, but instead destroys businesses, destroys communities, destroys families. the conservation of the oceans is not effective unless it involves all the stakeholders and unless it has as its fundamental pillars science, transparency and the principle of proportionality, which, it seems, have once again been forgotten in this particular case. commissioner, i know that you are here representing commissioner sinkevičius. i would therefore ask you to at least consider suspending the decision until they have actually obtained the necessary opinions, taking into account not only the statements made by the various member states, but also the message and the wishes of the members who have spoken in this chamber.
madam president, i have received letters from mr regino and his associates, burela shipowners in the pincho fleet affected by the commission's decision, who do not explain why they did not submit their claims before to be excluded from this decision. the impact of this measure on more than a thousand ships - four thousand crew members - and the impact on the auctions in my country, galicia, with the potential loss of sales, is a disaster. this ban on galician fishing will mean that hundreds of crew will lose their jobs and part of their wages, not only in deep-sea fishing gear such as the gran sol long-liner fleet or the north-western cantabrian trawl, but also in smaller artisanal fishing gear, with 2 100 affected in this fleet segment. these are people and maritime regions affected by a disproportionate and unfair decision. this veto deserves an urgent suspension: the urgency of lodging an appeal in luxembourg. madam commissioner, tell the commissioner that we have not seen him yet and it is a shame that we have not seen him yet. and there are two problems. firstly, the european commission does not care about fisheries. the second is the environmental and economic problem. from the political organization in which i am active the bng, we will always be in favour of preserving environmental resources and biodiversity. but here that has been violated too. the environment, available resources and fishing capacity have been compromised, because the social impact has not been taken into account, no updated data has been available, and no distinction is made between trawling, bottom trawling, net trawling and longlining. the galician fleet has suffered many scrappings. there will be overfishing and that will cause an environmental imbalance. and from here on we will always vote against the veto, as we did in 2016.
a uachtaráin, the eu has the world’s largest maritime area, with a coastline approximately 68 000 kilometres long. ireland, a small island on the edge of europe, has one of the largest sea-to-land ratios of any eu member state. with the ocean an ever-present feature of irish life, we hold huge value and huge respect for the sea around our island. it is a source of beauty, activity and economy for our coastal communities. given the importance of the sea to our livelihood, we must protect our vulnerable marine ecosystems. deep-sea ecosystems are unique hotspots for marine biodiversity, in particular because species in deep-sea areas are uniquely vulnerable to overfishing. their long lifespans means a significant time is needed to replenish their stock. in this regard, the sustainable conservation of vulnerable marine ecosystems is essential. however, ‘sustainability’ is the operative word here, and for this reason, i welcome the opportunity to consider the social and economic consequences of the commission’s implementing regulation. while conservation efforts are essential, so too is the need to protect the fair living standards of ireland’s fishing communities. we must ensure that our conservation efforts are environmentally, economically and socially sustainable. when implementing this regulation, i call on the commission to have due regard for the unique circumstances of coastal communities and the fishing industry. adequate consultation with fishing communities and the use of the most recent data is essential when classifying areas as vulnerable marine ecosystems. a socio-economic assessment should be factored into any commission decision before drastic measures are taken. as an example, i would like to highlight that irish fishermen suffered considerably post—brexit, losing access to uk ports and waters. as we move forward with marine conservation efforts, it is important that we are mindful of the broader economic context in which these decisions are taken. i call on the commission to consider this in their implementation activities.
madam president, being from ireland, every time we hear fishing being discussed, we are reminded of the fact that the fishing community in ireland have been treated like second—class citizens for a long time. successive irish governments sold out our fishermen and women a long time ago. ireland has a great reputation at giving away our natural resources. i want to draw the commission’s attention to a fishing issue off the south coast of wexford at the moment. there’s a massive application for wind farms in an area off the coast of wexford that will have a big impact on the fishing communities of kilmore quay, fethard-on-sea, dunmore east. i am 100% in favour of wind farms in the sea. it’s a win—win for everybody. it’s a brilliant idea. but my problem is that these wind turbines at sea are now being proposed before marine protected areas have been designated. now, while the eu – and ireland – might have a target of 30% by 2030, still only 2% of irish fishing area has been designated for this. we’re putting the cart before the horse.
madam president, i have to say, the idea of a regulation determining existing deep—sea fishing areas and establishing areas where vulnerable marine ecosystems are known to occur sounds grand. and it is! but the devil is in the detail in terms of these directives and regulations and the manner in which they’re being implemented. the failure to bring on board the fishing communities, and to distinguish between big and small operators in a community that has been absolutely shafted in terms of the impact on it because of membership in the eu is really regrettable, and it brings to the surface the contradiction. we talk about marine protection, and that is really necessary, but what do we do in action in terms of enforcing it? we have the marine strategy framework directive, which ireland has failed to implement. it has not designated marine protected areas and, therefore, now we have these giant french and portuguese companies coming in with major applications for offshore wind farms in killiney and kilmore quay, which is a threat to the area – and no marine protected areas. this isn’t joined—up thinking! if we’re serious about protecting the marine area, what’s the commission doing to make sure ireland implements this directive?
blue-card reply. – thank you very much for the question. as we pointed out, and my colleagues as well, we want to have sustainable fishing. we want to protect the marine areas. but it must be done, first of all, on up—to—date data. that is not the position as of now. secondly, if you ban fishing from these waters by irish and other fishers from the european union, there’s going to be a shortage of food, as my colleague mr millán mon pointed out, and therefore we are going to be importing it from other countries who do not have the same standards, who do not have the same sustainability and who are actually taking fish from our waters. so we have to protect our own group first and we must consult with those who are most involved, and that’s the fishers. and if they are happy with it, then we move ahead, because if it is in their interest, as you are pointing out, then why would they be going against it?
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i thank you for your comments and for this open dialogue, and i shall try to address a couple of the points which you raised, because i realise that most of your points were also addressed in quite a bit of detail in my introductory statement. some of you claimed that the commission did not use the latest data. we want to be clear on this: any scientific information can only be taken into account if it was fully communicated and reviewed within the scientific bodies in response to data calls issued to all member states as of 2017. the ices advice is the result of a thorough scientific, peer reviewed process involving leading scientists in the field, and the latest information communicated by spain as part of the 2022 data call can only be reviewed and considered in the next ices advice. so you will understand that ices cannot take this data into account retroactively and include them into the 2021 ices advice, which was the basis for the implementing act. also, some of you asked why we did not wait for two more months to have the new and improved scientific advice. the commission and ices have waited many years for the correct data submission from the member states to prepare this much-needed scientific advice. so, once this advice was available, no day was wasted as the commission was fully aware of its long-overdue legal obligation to finalise the implementing regulation. waiting for updated scientific advice would have led to more significant delay and not just two months, as the whole adoption process should have been restarted, including a new two-months notification in the uk. and all in all, a further delay would be unjustifiable after such a long delay of four years and such a long consultation process, which was started in 2019 with the national administrations and stakeholders. also, some of you said that we did not analyse the socio-economic impacts of the closures. so the basis for the adoption of the implementing act is the scientific advice proposes management options that consider the fishing intensity and, therefore, the socio-economic impacts. i witnessed with great concern, however, that it is still very difficult for the fishing sector, notably in spain, to quantify the exact impact of its own fleet. we see various and often very different figures, both in terms of vessels and fishers impacted as well as the possible overall cost to regional economies. the commission has repeatedly asked for detailed and precise information, but so far without success. as regards repeating claims that there was no consultation process and that the industry has not been involved, i want to be clear on this once again that over the past two years, the commission carried out an extensive stakeholder consultation through a series of meetings with member states, advisory councils and stakeholders. for the first time, ices invited stakeholders to a workshop to better inform the scientific advice. and this workshop took place in 2020 and representatives from all stakeholders were invited to provide meaningful feedback. in addition, over the last years the commission held regular meetings with the national administrations and stakeholders to inform, consult and debrief on this topic, well ahead of proposing the draft implementing act. so, to counter the alleged lack of consultation, the commission has also disclosed to concerned member states and stakeholders the exchanges on the matter with all stakeholders and member states last september. with regards to the claim that the commission had called the fisheries industry a ‘destructive industry’, i categorically reject this. the commission has certainly never said such a thing, and the commission has, of course, no intention to destroy the fishing industry. on the contrary, what we want to achieve collectively, together with the sector, is to ensure a transition towards sustainable fishing practices. and let me clarify once again that the implementing act adopted by the commission last september did not and could not change anything that is already laid down in the regulation of 2016, neither on the gears affected by this implementing act nor on the deficit concerns. it applies to all bottom gears and it applies to all 87 listed areas, but only below 400 metres’ depth. the commission has asked the spanish administration several times to share its assessment on the socio-economic impact, which so far we have seen only indifferent figures quoted in the press. so we now look forward to receiving their formal assessment soon. in this context, i point to the encouraging statement made by the head of the spanish government, mr sánchez, that the majority of the 337 spanish vessels affected could continue to operate as usual. and i recall that the eu’s bold step forward in protecting 87 areas of vulnerable marine ecosystems will allow these areas to finally recover and replenish, and our fishers will clearly benefit from this. a healthy ocean is a promise for a better future for our coastal communities and our economies. and only healthy oceans can be climate mitigators and biodiversity hotspots.
the id group informed the chairman of a decision to amend the appointments to a delegation. this decision will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and will take effect from the date of this announcement.
we now move to the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, is there a referral? just to call for the referral back to the relevant committee for interinstitutional negotiations.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 12.33 p.m.)
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. i see no objection to that. the minutes are approved.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on eu support for the ukrainian research community by cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o000044/2022 b9-0029/2022) (2022/2691 ((rsp)).
author. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, this oral question covers several key issues for the itre committee. it deals with protecting the rights of a community, the scientific community, which plays a pivotal role in our common well-being. we address the importance of science. we address the importance of science diplomacy, a tool that brings positive changes in international relations, reinforcing ties and easing political tensions. we talk about the need to bring stability to the researchers community in europe and elsewhere. we also underline the importance of values such as research and academic freedom, such as ethics in new in science and new technologies. researchers around the world should be free to think and express ideas. they should be free to focus on their activities for the good of humanity and to expand the frontiers of scientific knowledge. these are principles that in the european union, we apply in all our policies. europe must be a safe place to do research, a safe place for science. it must be an example for the rest of the world. the union has the tradition of using science diplomacy tools in other parts of the world. i can mention, for example, the balkans integration, for which scientific cooperation played a crucial role. the need to support researchers at risk is not a novelty. recently, we have witnessed this in afghanistan, where hundreds of researchers were put at risk by the taliban regime. we see this, unfortunately, around the world where there are authoritarian regimes. the union’s response to the needs of ukrainian research has been, so far, swift. the parliament was the first, demanding a mobilisation of instruments to help them to continue their research activities. the european higher education and research institutions have shown their solidarity by organising, on a voluntary basis, support for researchers, even without funding from governments or other institutions. commissioner mariya gabriel was able to mobilise quickly the funds useful to support researchers. the establishment of era4ukraine, a one-stop-shop to give researchers of ukraine a concrete point of reference was one of the first responses. initiatives like horizon for ukraine, erc for ukraine and marie curie actions for ukraine followed shortly and help the creation of fellowship schemes and targeted financial support. this has been an exceptional response to a war on european soil. in europe, we live in freedom. values, as researchers have said, such as academic freedom are essential. however, this also increases our responsibility to help researchers at risk, especially in the neighbourhood countries that contribute also for our development research. most of these countries were also participants in horizon 2020 and now are in horizon europe. europe should be a safe haven for all the researchers that want to continue their research. this is why we must continue to support our ukrainian friends. today, we are asking the european commission how it plans to maintain and reinforce this support, which initiatives it is planning to mobilise which specific support schemes are ready and which national schemes can be pulled together to become best practices. to do all this, the european commission should be able to use the right instruments. so far, to support ukrainian research, the european commission had to rely on emergency provisions in the financial regulation. we need to make better use of the possibilities provided by the association agreement between ukraine and the eu in science. furthermore, we need a new and innovative approach to help the researchers in ukraine, but also to ensure the survival and future reform of the research infrastructure in this country, so that when there is peace researchers have a place to continue their scientific work. for example, the commission should set up an ad hoc european fellowship scheme for researchers at risk and to be prepared for the future in other situations. parliament supports this and already has a pilot project budgeted.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, i would like to update you on our support for the ukrainian research community and its broader research and innovation ecosystem. and i would like to start by thanking mr cristian buşoi for sending us very pertinent questions on behalf of the itre committee. the commission fully recognises the importance of providing meaningful support for the ukrainian research community. we are also mindful of the long-term perspective when ukraine’s reconstruction begins. the ongoing war has inflicted massive damage on ukraine’s research infrastructures, disrupted research and innovation activities and left researchers who remain in the country with limited means to continue their work. at the same time, the lugano conference in july marked the beginning of political discussions on ukraine’s reconstruction. i am sure that here we all agree that knowledge, innovative solutions and advanced technology will be key in rebuilding a modern ukraine. in terms of our concrete support, in the wake of invasion, we gave our full attention to employment opportunities for displaced researchers who fled the war, seeking refuge in the eu. we have done this strong coordination with the member states, for example, via the era4ukraine initiative. more recently, our focus shifted to supporting those who remain in the country and have limited means to continue their work. we fully recognise the importance of keeping ukraine’s research and innovation ecosystem alive and preventing excessive brain drain. in view of ukraine’s eu candidate country status, we also need to facilitate their integration into the european research area. in this context, ukraine’s association to the horizon europe and euratom programmes should be seen as the key instruments of support. the association agreement is in force since 9 june and ukrainian entities can participate in these programmes on equal terms with entities from the eu member states. in addition, the commission made an exception for ukraine by waiving its financial contributions for years 2021 and 2022 at the very last under all union programmes to which ukraine is associated. on top of that, all our research and innovation goals encourage the applicants to include opportunities where possible for ukrainians. with these provisions in place, we encourage our member states as well as our global partners who take interest in the horizon europe and euratom programmes to actively pursue cooperation opportunities with the ukrainian partners. as a next step, we intend to support ukraine in setting up a horizon europe office in kyiv in the course of 2023. our hope is that it can strengthen the research and innovation networks and facilitate more competitive applications from ukraine. i still have something to say, and i will say it in my concluding remarks.
on behalf of the ppe group. – a uachtaráin, we have entered a new and pivotal phase of the callous and unnecessary war in ukraine. i think everybody knows that the war could be over tomorrow if war criminal putin wished it so. europe’s reaction to the war is, of course, multifaceted. but i am glad that meps buşoi and carvalho have raised this particular aspect. as has been pointed out, the eu higher education and research community has expressed a strong support for the ukrainian research and innovative sector. i welcome the steps taken to ensure ukrainian entities are eligible for a rise in europe funding, and it is positive to see the european innovation council announce 20 million of support for ukrainian start—ups. i also warmly welcome the msca4ukraine initiative, which provides 25 million to support fellowships for ukrainian phd students and postdocs. i hope this scheme can get up and running as soon as possible. yet, in line with meps buşoi and carvalho, i also believe that more action can be taken. ukrainian research infrastructure is under extreme pressure with the war. the commission should investigate how further to support these people under the eu—ukraine association agreement. with rockets continuing to destroy ukrainian cities, indiscriminately targeting schools, universities, hospitals and research infrastructure, such as the national gene bank of plants, and the death toll of scientists increasing, ukraine needs a coordinated approach to save its research community. the situation in afghanistan also comes to mind, but academics have been forced into exile or hiding by the taliban, who require full societal obedience to their dogmatic and oppressive views. in this regard, i would like to highlight the good work done by the scholars at risk network, in particular europe director sinead o’connor, who is based in maynooth university in ireland. maith thú a shinéad! go raibh maith agat.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, madam commissioner, when russia invaded ukraine in february this year, many researchers across europe quickly mobilised to host fellow ukrainian researchers. let me tell you about a nice example of this kind of solidarity. a few days ago, i visited the beta research centre in vic in central catalonia. they do an outstanding job in the fields of biodiversity, circular economy and environmental and food technology. during the course of my visit, i was told that only two days after the war started and appalled by the images of the cruel invasion, the centre decided to offer to host ukrainian researchers. as they were spreading the call through the social networks, they quickly found out that similar initiatives were emerging all over europe. at least 100 volunteers from all countries were organising the reception of ukrainian researchers in eu facilities in an altruistic and self-managed manner. then these volunteers decided to open the science for ukraine website to provide in a clear and open way all the useful information for ukrainian researchers willing to flee the war but at the same time continue their careers. globally, more than 2 000 offers were collected and in some cases they welcomed the first refugees even before the official administrations had put in place reception measures. the beta centre provided work, housing and salary for eight ukrainian researchers, and now they are proud to tell about their experience, which was positive both for the ukrainian researchers and the host centre. support to the ukrainian research community has to be part of the eu’s comprehensive support to the people of ukraine, to whom we’ve just decided to grant the sakharov prize. the commission has rightly provided coordination support to concrete actions like the one i just explained. it is important that, despite the horrors of the war and the massive latest attacks on civilian infrastructure, the ukrainian research community can keep working inside the country, preventing brain drain, and that we keep providing support for the projects under horizon europe and other additional instruments. and in the future reconstruction efforts education and research infrastructure will have to get special attention because, as we know, the research and innovation capacity of any country is key to a more prosperous future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate you on your question. it is timely and important. commissioner, i often, if not almost always, criticize you for things i believe to be true, but in this case the question that has been asked and your reaction deserves both congratulations and respect. the scientific community in ukraine must be supported, because after the treacherous russian attack and missile strikes on colleges, on high schools and on universities, it is quite obvious that this scientific thought and this scientific potential must be preserved for the good of both the ukrainian nation, the ukrainian people and our entire european civilization. so your position is worthy of respect, and i congratulate you. there is a fact, historically, which obviously or rather without surprise is not known to you, but you all know that in ukraine there is a very large bulgarian community, bulgarian minority. these people are loyal ukrainian citizens. in ukraine there is the oldest bulgarian high school, the oldest. there was a bulgarian high school in ukraine before there was a bulgarian state. so we have to help these people, so work.
(start of speech off microphone) this initiative is aimed at enabling ukrainian researchers to continue their academic work in member states, which i think is a really good thing. and i fully support it because knowledge forges consciousness. and i find it interesting that the organisation scholars at risk, which is a partner of the eu for the ukrainian scheme, also wrote to the european institutions last year about afghanistan. but we see no such scheme or motions for afghanistan. so i would like to ask the commissioner: is this being considered? and if not, why not? because the people of afghanistan and the researchers have been similarly exposed. and i’d also like to deal with the issue of that since the war in ukraine, several western scientific institutions have severed cooperation with russia. i think this is lunacy. it was through joint western and soviet research during the cold war that we demonstrated in antarctica the link between the level of co2 in the atmosphere and global temperature, causing so much concern today. scientific interaction is a good thing. it should be encouraged as a first step towards peace.
mr president, i 100% support the idea of european support for ukrainian research and innovation. it makes very good sense. we did oppose supporting ukraine with arms, which has led to more violence, more bloodshed and at great cost to the ordinary people, the less well-off in ukraine who are dying in their numbers. research and innovation leads to knowledge and understanding. it always represents good sense and, as my colleague said, we should never politicise this and we should keep channels open. we want people to understand more and to know more about life. and politicising this is not the way forward. and i mean, i’ve seen situations where russian literature, music and dance or been censored in places. russian sports were being censored. they didn’t start a war; there’s no logic to that. and just on a last point, we visited iraq last year and they were crying out for support for research in iraq from the european community. and it is very disappointing that the europeans have been silent on this and won’t give it.
a uachtaráin, as i say, at the upcoming un climate change conference in egypt, which i am grateful to be attending, it is paramount that an agreement of continued cooperation, and support, is reached to ensure we limit global warming to 1.5 degrees celsius. cop 27 comes at a time of great significance with the energy crisis across europe. the impact of climate change can also be seen following the recent flooding and extreme rain, even in my own constituency in cork. cop 27 will need to ensure sustainable climate finance, a significant transition to renewable energies and the protection of our ecosystems, while also ensuring an affordable and secure energy source for households, farmers, commuters and industry. we must ensure investment in research, innovation and digital technology to support the energy transition. there is untapped and undeveloped potential in many facets of energy generation in europe, most notably solar, biogas, offshore wind, as well as green hydrogen.
mr. chairman, i'm looking forward to these meetings on thursday afternoon. i voted strongly against this resolution for the following reason: i don't believe in this ideology -- climateism, hysteria, greenism -- an ideology that is not based on any real scientific data and no real scientific facts. the result of this ideology was the de-industrialisation of the european continent. we kill our own production and put power in the hands of china, in the hands of turkey, in the hands of russia. we deliberately destroy our economy so that some other people who don't care about this ideology can profit at our expense. it's not rational, it's not economically and scientifically sound. that is why we shall always vote strongly against all such resolutions which make us poorer, more unemployed, more de-industrialised for the benefit of other societies and other countries which have their own economic and political ambitions in that direction.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the need for solidarity with the cultural sector of ukraine, which has been direly affected by the russian invasion. we should remember that war always means the destruction of culture and artistic heritage, and we have a duty to protect it in humanity’s name. that said, we should recall that ukraine is a multi-ethnic, multicultural and multilingual society, and threats to diversity didn’t begin in february and don’t end with russian nationalism. according to earlier censuses, nearly 30% of ukrainians declared russian as their native language. we know that language laws have been the subject of discrimination and cultural conflict in ukraine since 2014. we know the venice commission has criticised ukraine for failing to uphold its international commitments in that regard, so it’s very important that the eu operates to international standards and is not discriminatory. we know from ireland and the good friday agreement that peace in ukraine will require a settlement that acknowledges and respects and secures the heritage of all people of ukraine, including its minorities.
mr president, this motion talks about supporting the resilience and post-crisis recovery of the eu’s cultural ecosystem as a whole, and i was very happy to vote in favour of it. there’s been a significant increase in the creative europe programme budget to 2.4 billion for the 2021—2027 period, almost double the previous amount. however, despite this increase in funding, ireland remains in the bottom rung of european investment in culture, sadly. as one of the hardest hit sectors by covid, the arts and cultural sector in ireland has seen far—reaching and damaging consequences in terms of jobs, tourism and regional development. there is basically an arts recession in ireland. in the cost of living crisis in europe, it is more timely than ever to ensure the livelihood of people working in the cultural sector. there is a desperate need across the board for robust recovery mechanisms with targeted funding if anything is going to change. we love to talk about the arts in ireland, but we don’t love to support it, and that is a real problem.
mr president, i abstained on this resolution on burkina faso because, while it’s not terrible, it’s not really great either. it doesn’t suggest a way forward; it’s just really a simplistic call to return to civilian governments and a warning to stay away from those russians and the wagner group. i mean, come on. the civilian governance structures – so-called – in burkina faso are all now pretty much militarised. we’ve just had another coup within a coup because it wasn’t delivering anything. a civilian government on its own won’t be any better unless it tackles issues like the cfa franc and the massive gold theft by multinationals. it won’t be any good if it doesn’t deal with the violence as a direct result of the interference of nato in the libyan war. amendments, which were voted down by this house, amendments which were voted down calling for transparency and the end of the french using secrecy to hide their war crimes. so now we’re supposed to believe it’s all russia’s fault, the poor record of wagner has led to terrorism, not the disastrous g5 sahel missions. it’s a joke. it’s time to stop the carve-up of africa. stop strangling them. let burkina faso forge its own destiny.
madam president, i welcome the statement from the commission, but being truthful we have to live in the here and now in terms of food security and food supply, and a lot of the proposals and ideas coming forward from the commission are looking beyond the immediate horizon. i mean the significant challenges are for the planting season next spring. will there be sufficient amounts of fertilizer in place to guarantee that yields will be of sufficient nature to guarantee food security and food supply in the autumn of next year? that is a significant issue. speaking of hydrogen and methane are longer—term projects, but we have to try and ensure that we have enough gas supply available for the production of fertilisers in the spring of 2023. of course, when we are doing that we will also be using gas that we need for electricity. so we have to ensure that there’s a greater capacity. i would just urge the commission to look aggressively at the concept of ensuring that we have more than just enough gas for electricity production, but that we also start to fill our storage capacity for next spring, for the planting season, in terms of the production of fertilizer. that is the immediate priority. food production, food security, increased yields in the time ahead.
rapporteur. – madam president, first and foremost, i am delighted to be here presenting this particular report to parliament. the financial sector has always been an attractive target for cyberattacks, given the potential lucrative gains, and cybersecurity, as all security has been a long—standing priority for the sector. however, the legal requirements and financial entities across the eu differed, depending on the services they provided or where they were located. there was just a patchwork of rules and regulation. moreover, as the sector became more digitised, the interconnectivity with, and the reliance on, the tech sector has increased the chances and the risks of a cyberattack. dora seeks to address both of these issues and to create a robust and harmonised security framework across the entire eu financial sector. i suppose that due to geopolitical issues, the importance of this framework has unfortunately been thrown into the limelight and become more pertinent since russia has invaded ukraine. it does indicate the great risk that we are at, if we have a very aggressive neighbour like russia that is willing to attack people, destroy electrical infrastructure, to make people cold, to use food as a weapon and to weaponize energy, then be in no doubt that russia would be willing and very capable of attacking our fundamentals in terms of financial services. we have to be very conscious of that. i approached this file with three principles. first and foremost, proportionality, then future—proofing and maintaining and encouraging the competitiveness of the eu’s financial services and tech sectors. i think we achieved that in the final text. dora takes an ambitious approach to third—party ict providers, such as cloud computing providers to the financial sector, in that it introduces an oversight framework. it was very important to ensure this oversight framework had robust and just governance, and that we recognise that such oversight is novel and there will be many lessons to be learned from us and expertise to be developed in the period ahead. therefore, despite some initial reluctance from member states, the resulting governance structures ensures that all european financial supervisors are involved and that they don’t start working in silos again at member state level. in other words, there’s a cross—fertilisation of ideas. i am proud to say that, as co—legislators, we avoided imposing location requirements. this was a quite a contentious issue early on. ict providers building a ‘fortress europe’ and making it unattractive for global companies to do business with our european companies will not strengthen the security of eu markets. i would urge the commission to avoid undermining the approach taken to third—country ict providers in dora, for example, and in the upcoming eu cloud certification scheme. the agreement was voted in econ on 20 july 2022, with 41 in favour, zero against and six abstentions. i have to say that i am extremely disappointed with the id group, who have tabled a number of amendments – and i don’t mean to make an overtly political point on this, but time and again we see people on the left and on the very right tabling amendments on an agreed compromise text. i wouldn’t mind if they were involved in the process, but they never engaged in it. my office was as open with every political grouping, and not once was there any engagement from the id group. so from that perspective, i am deeply, deeply disappointed that we now see amendments being tabled when there was an opportunity to engage in the process whereby we actually agreed a text between most political groupings. therefore, i would urge the house to vote against the amendments and stick to the agreed text. finally, i would like to thank mikuláš peksa, the rapporteur for the dora amending directive, and my renew colleague bart groothuis, the rapporteur for the nis directive, for their cooperation and alignment during the legislative process. finally, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, including frances fitzgerald, who is also a colleague of mine, and all the others who engaged in the process. i will be summing up later on so will be able to thank you on an individual basis then as well.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, it is not possible to talk about security without talking about digital. today, the threats to society and our way of life exist just as much online as they do on a battlefield. we are it seeing right now with the ever-increasing number of cyberattacks coming from places like russia and china – we’re seeing it right now. in ireland last year, we saw an enormous and unprecedented cyberattack on our health service, with the personal data of thousands of people compromised. imagine the same happening to an entire financial system. european citizens must be able to have confidence in the systems they use to save and invest their money. this is why this regulation is so important and essential. we need to implement it very quickly because of all the sensitive data that is held by our eu-wide financial services. robust cybersecurity rules are essential to help the digitalisation of european finance and make this a sector fit for the 21st century. i want to thank all of the rapporteurs that we worked with, and in particular i would like to say that my colleague billy kelleher led so very well on this file and worked so cooperatively with all of us. if europe wants to become a leading centre for financial services investment, we do need urgently a cybersecurity system in which people can have full and total confidence. it is an essential part of dealing with the future we are all facing.
rapporteur. – mr president, just again, to acknowledge frances fitzgerald, alfred sant, bogdan rzońca and josé gusmão as shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and help on this file. this is about ensuring the integrity of our financial services, it’s about protecting the financial systems, but more importantly, it’s about protecting citizens. it’s about ensuring that citizens have confidence that their information, that their money, that the systems that they use every day in a modern, functioning, digitised world has the integrity at its heart in terms of cybersecurity protections. so from that perspective, i would urge the regulators now that are charged with the responsibility to engage with the major stakeholders and industry to ensure that they can bring forward second-tier proposals and guidance to ensure that we have seamless understanding of the obligations that will be placed on ict third-party providers, on financial entities themselves, and all those regulated in the european union to ensure that we have a swift move to where we need to get to, to ensure that that integrity, as i said, is there. we do also have to ensure that resources are made available, commissioner. we need the regulators to be able to regulate, to be able to oversee. and in doing that, that requires resources. also, member states must be conscious of their obligations. and what we don’t want is for regulators, even though we did put in an overarching framework, we don’t want regulators and member states to become siloed again. we want to have uniformity across the entire european union in terms of regulation, in terms of oversight, in terms of obligations on financial entities and third-party critical providers as well. so in thanking everybody, i hope that over the next number of years we will see an evolving, exciting, enthusiastic engagement by regulators and the broader industry to ensure future-proofing, that our competitiveness is protected, but most importantly, that we have robust systems against cyber-attacks from nefarious actors who are willing to hurt us.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, creativity, design, storytelling, animation and music – all of these components are key for a successful video game. however, as shared just now, society has perpetrated a stereotype of gaming as anti—social and very technical, without recognising its massive cultural and creative impact. global gaming revenue in 2021 was billions of euro – that is bigger than hollywood and the music industry combined. we here in europe must recognise the potential of the video games sector in developing creative talent and upscaling cultural creators, as we see. a great example of the opportunities in this sector is black shamrock, a leader in gaming development globally, based in dublin city centre, who just today announced 80 jobs due to growing demand in their work. gamerfest, ireland’s biggest e-sports festival, was held last month very successfully and outlined the endless creative industry and the strength of the gaming community as a whole. in order to maintain europe’s position as a cultural centre, we must look to the future and invest in our video game sector through horizon europe and creative europe. i welcome this finding and thank you very much to our colleagues for their work.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of great importance to humanity: hatred, racism. from my point of view, as a member of a humanist, social-liberal party in my country, i believe that man must be at the centre of all our action, of the council, of the commission, of parliament, of everyone. but i wonder, does the european council not discriminate against my country, an entire nation, that romania does not enter schengen, even though it meets the conditions, even though the parliament voted? what example can the european council set when it uses double standards? what example can the commission set when it uses double standards? and what example can parliament set when there are meps who, here and in today's debate, have stigmatised an entire country by not setting a positive example? i belong to a majority, but i feel discriminated against by the citizens of my country, even by the european council. therefore, the policies of discrimination, elimination of racism and hatred must start from here to set an example to the citizens and to consider that every person is important, regardless of religion, nation, color.
mr president, the resolution on the rise of neo-fascism, neo-fascist violence in europe warned that several european parties are openly fascist and xenophobic, inciting hatred and violence in european society, such as the extreme right wing of this parliament that we have just heard. meps, being racist is being cowardly. lula, the president-elect of brazil, says that racism is a disease and that, as president, he would fight against racism; that it is important to have anti-racist speeches in politics. racism kills, abuses, blames the other, pays less for equal work, uses and abuses, discriminates, uses and abuses the institutional. racism is a european problem. in spain, one in four young people admits to racist behaviour on social media. educating to combat racism is our obligation.
mr president, i do not see how we can address the deeply serious topic of racism in the eu with any credibility as long as the eu’s high representative for foreign affairs publicly espouses some of the most racist sentiments uttered in public for many years. the billions of people who live where europe has invaded and butchered millions, plundered and committed genocide, overthrown and murdered revolutionaries, backed brutal dictators, imposed murderous sanctions; where the very same eu institutions that borrell says distinguish us and them have used financial imperialism to keep brutal colonial power structures in place. when those who live under the boot of the global capitalist system heard borrell’s now infamous ‘gardeners in the jungle’ comments, they knew exactly what he meant. they recognised the racism and brutality that europe was built on and sadly, a mentality that hasn’t gone away.
madam president, cyber—terrorism is a very real threat to both our economy and our society. firstly, i’d like to congratulate and thank bart groothuis, my colleague, for his excellent work today and keeping cybersecurity at the top of the political agenda in my group and in this parliament. if people are in any doubt about what cyber—terrorism is, i would like to remind people that on 14 may 2021, there was a massive cyberattack on the irish health services. it has cost our health services to date about eur 120 million, and to put it systems in place to ensure that we have integrity in our health systems with regard to cyberattacks it will cost at least another eur 700 million. but it was an attack on citizens; it was an attack on people. irish citizens will die because of delayed diagnosis in radiology departments, delayed outcomes and in terms of treatments as well. so this has cost lives already. so we have to be very conscious that we are not talking about some abstract form of cyber threats. we are talking about real threats to real people that are being carried out by nefarious actors, both in terms of countries and criminal organisations throughout the world. so we must be vigilant and we must always be prepared and ready, and consistently improve our cybersecurity in both financial services, but in every other aspect of public services in europe.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, in accordance with rule 59(4), i would like to request that the matter be referred back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations.
congratulations, mr rangel, well done croatia. this is a historic vote and a historic moment. congratulations.
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 11.30)
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
the president, the members and the voting members of the committee shall be informed of the progress of the work of the committee and of the results of its deliberations. the digital single market act is an important instrument to ensure that the provision of financial services is protected from cyber threats and other risks associated with the use of tfcs. they're the real threat to our cybersecurity today. tharla ceann in éirinn anuraidh nuair was made an attack le bogearraí éirice ar fheimeannacht in the seirbhíse sláinte. the attack was carried out by the fheimeannacht in the seirbhíse sláinte. the impact of the crisis on the financial situation of the applicant countries was felt to be a major financial crisis. the third step is the legislation to decide whether to recognise electronic trees.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report. higher eu ambition on cybersecurity and in protecting critical infrastructure is vital. recent incidents have revealed the fragility of the eu’s infrastructure and emphasised the danger of cyberattacks, including the sabotage of the nord stream gas pipelines and last year’s massive cyberattack on the health system in my own country. european critical entities are more interconnected and interdependent, which makes them stronger and more efficient, but sadly also more vulnerable. in the case of an incident, a common level of cybersecurity in the eu is crucial for the functioning of the internal market. we must take the necessary steps to harmonise our internal market and improve cybersecurity throughout the eu. i was pleased to vote in favour of this report, like many others in the parliament.
madam president, the cyberattack on the hse in ireland last year was a traumatic national event; an assault on public health and an urgent reminder that the more digitised our societies are, the more vulnerable they are to network intrusion. cybersecurity, of course, is the rapporteur’s field, and nobody would fault his understanding of the technical issues or in terms of increasing resilience and his determination. but we had concerns about the correct balance between privacy and security here. and for that reason, we abstained. we also have to take on board the point, the economic paradigm that we live under, which systemically under-funds our public services such as health services, expects them to choose then between adequate it and saving lives. and that obviously isn’t a fair choice. we can’t have proper cybersecurity if we don’t pay for it. technical fixes only go so far. second-rate funding and investment in the public sector means second-rate protection for our it systems and our citizens’ data in them. this has to stop.
madam president, i believe it's important that we really focus on protecting our basic critical infrastructure. the attacks that are increasing, as we have heard from a number of member states, are not targeting state institutions, but rather targeting health services, health facilities. they're targeting our businesses, stealing intellectual property. all of this is going to be the reality of the 21st century, and we need to be prepared to protect our businesses, our citizens. and i'm very pleased that this regulation has been supported. i supported him too. it's important to note that only 41% of the spending that the united states spends on cybersecurity is spent by us in the european union. it's got to go up. we certainly need to increase the number of incident reports under this regulation. some incidents are not reported. i am glad that this package has set a good position on how to report and by what deadline.
a uachtaráin, i thank my colleagues for this timely report. the mobilisation of funds through the repowereu chapters of the recovery and resilience facility, will provide member states with much—needed financial support to achieve our energy diversification goals. russia’s brutal invasion of ukraine and the ensuing energy crisis in europe has shown that we must end our dependency on russian energy supplies and ramp up homegrown renewables. in ireland, one million homes have the roof space and orientation suitable for the installation of up to ten solar panels. this could translate into 8 % of ireland’s renewable energy targets. we take this opportunity to harness the potential of renewable technologies. the benefits from a climate and energy security perspective would be immense. i thank my colleagues mr mureşan, etc., for the good job they have done.
madam president, i have refrained from supporting this report because of its content. we've heard over and over here about how there are price increases, how energy is expensive. why is energy so expensive? because of the votes in this room. because for years, systematically, the people who voted in this room were doing one thing and one thing only: making electricity more expensive, making fuel more expensive, and making citizens' lives more expensive. why would they do that? they were driven by a green, climate, alarmist utopia and hysteria. they said they couldn't have their own gas. they said there could be no electricity generation from nuclear power and they made it so that the prices of energy carriers were deliberately high. this is nobody else's fault, not russia, not china, not any other country. it's the voting in this room. in this room, prices have been raised and now the same people are telling us that we have to fight external dependencies - those that have made the european union totally dependent on external energy sources. this is stupid.
madam president, we voted today for croatia to join the schengen area, because croats, romanians, bulgarians have the right and must join schengen. and i don't know if you're aware, but we're having this conversation about borders, about walls, 33 years after the berlin wall fell. and we have to remember that for 50 years, half of europe was divided, half of europe was filled with borders and barriers. and we know very well, both romanians and croatians and bulgarians, how that was. and i think that now, in 2022, talking about borders and barriers, we're embarrassing ourselves. because a united europe is not a europe with borders. and i have only one message for the council and for those who still oppose the entry of all countries into the schengen area: tear down this wall now!
madam president, i actually was a shadow on this file and i want to put on record that the messing that went on behind the scenes around this file makes it very, very hard for me to shake the feeling that parliament has been steamrolled into this process, which has been riddled with procedural irregularities at every step of the way. the violence, the abuse, the lies from croatia and the commission – all of them have been swept under the rug. what we have is a few little gentle calls to deal with human rights, but let’s be honest about this, both croatia and the commission have form in this regard. both of them have brazenly lied about human rights violations. both of them have showed zero interest in tackling them, in zero interest in accountability. for god’s sake, croatia even slandered the committee for the prevention of torture after their monitoring visit and tried to suppress their report! and we think they’re going to change their spots? i believe in free movement for everybody, but i also believe in human rights and accountability, and until we have that i had to vote against this file.
madam president, i have supported this report not only because croatia has fulfilled all the conditions and deserves to be part of the schengen area, but also because i want to remind those member states who continue to break the rules. it is absolutely hypocritical, double-minded and wrong that they, for their own economic reasons, stopped romania and bulgaria from joining the schengen area because they were violating the treaties. for 11 years bulgaria and romania have been strictly complying with all the requirements of the schengen area. a few days ago, a bulgarian border guard was killed in a shootout on the turkish border with turkish smugglers, protecting this hall here. two months ago, two more police officers were killed in a manhunt for smugglers and human traffickers, but bulgaria and romania are still not part of the schengen area. why would you do that? because countries like the netherlands are pursuing their own self-interest. there are lobbyists of the big transport companies here who are pushing bulgaria and romania not to be accepted so that their companies can work and their companies can make more money. that's hypocritical. and that's two-faced.
madam president, i have supported this report because i believe that croatia belongs in our schengen area. no doubt you will find examples of human rights violations to some degree in every country. this has happened and is happening in every country with varying degrees of violation. but i am convinced that croatia has met the basic conditions that our rules impose. this was already noted by the european commission in 2019. and i also look forward to the end of those terrible lines that have separated us since entering croatian territory. and i think it's good news for the european family that the area of freedom and justice is expanding to another country. croatia is a very important country for us, which can protect our common european space, our external border, much better.
madam president, i was really happy to support this report, its very strong language on the intersection between oppressions and the ethos that the fight against any racism is against all racism. in that regard, i find it very concerning that the communication on anti-semitism last year from the commission called on member states to adopt the ihra working definition of anti-semitism, a controversial and flawed document which has been criticised by hundreds of palestinian academics and journalists because it allows for the conflation of anti-semitism with criticism of israel and is used to prevent palestinians from speaking about their own oppression. as they say, the fight against anti-semitism shouldn’t be turned into a stratagem to delegitimise the fight against the oppression of palestinians, the denial of their rights and the continued occupation of their lands. our report rightly calls for zero tolerance for eu support for projects inside or outside the eu that directly or indirectly promote xenophobic or racist views. therefore, i call on the commission to recognise the consensus that exists, that israel’s treatment of palestinians meets the definition in international law of the crime of apartheid, and therefore to review israeli participation in eu programmes and eu support for projects that might give rise to complicity in israel’s apartheid regime.
madam president, in the past three years of this parliament, how many times have we discussed the actions or, in most cases, the lack of action by the hungarian government? how many? we have debated the serious consequences of their decisions that have impacted, in my belief, the founding principles of our union. and yet here we are, again. the hungarian government has not delivered in solidarity in protecting the fundamental rights of eu citizens, yet they sit comfortably in protecting their economic assets with their continued push back against sanctions on russian energy. the commission and the council must understand when a country continues to strike and strip the lgbti+ community and other minority groups of their rights. we cannot continue to ignore. we cannot. discrimination against one group festers, it spreads outwards and it can affect more and more communities, and we must pay attention. we cannot turn our backs on eu citizens no matter which eu governments attempt to work against the founding principles. we work to protect the people of hungary, to protect all citizens. and as shared earlier, the rule of law is not to be negotiated.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i'm interested in one thing only, the interests of the hungarian people, the hungarian families. i can only examine the situation through these glasses. is it of interest to hungarian families that the government is lying about what we are arguing for out of a billion euros a year? are hungarian families interested in the fact that the rule of law has been abolished in hungary? no, it's not his business. it is a fact that hungary is entitled to eu subsidies. and the fact that we don't get them at the moment because of the orbán system, because of the regime's corrupt, backstabbing, blackmailing, aggressive policies. and it's also a fact that the aid will only come to hungarian families and the hungarian economy if the orbán government is willing to change. dear hungarian voters! we are debating when and how we can force the orbáns to steal less or not at all and to abide by the rules that are necessary for the hungarian people to build the rule of law. that is the only question, and as a hungarian mep i will continue to fight for our resources in the next term. but they should come to hungary for the sake of hungarian families, not orbán's.
we have fought hard, mr president, for legislation to protect the european budget from corruption, because corruption is rampant in certain member states. for example, the situation in hungary has worsened in recent years under orbán's rule. in september parliament ruled that hungary could no longer be considered a full democracy and that all european funds for hungary should be frozen. hungary agreed and put forward 17 measures to fight corruption. but this is not enough. there is insufficient evidence at this stage to conclude that there are no longer any risks to our european budget. it would therefore be a historic mistake if the commission decided to allow european money to flow to hungary again, directly into the pockets of orbán and his entourage. this is a test for the conditionality mechanism.
madam president, commissioner reynders, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that the mechanism of selectivity has been used to assess the performance of a government, in this case the orbán government, in applying the rule of law. and it is the first time that the european union has actually considered linking financing with the implementation of our fundamental principles and values. allow me a personal note: all of us who signed the request for the oral question in june 2020 can today feel entitled. the orbán government, which is itself the prime minister of hungary, believes that it can blackmail the union, that it can ignore the principles and rules which define european identity, that it can use its vote in the council as a weapon of blackmail, that it can threaten european unity in support of hungary, that it can override our principles. the answer to this is one: the european union is not being blackmailed. no compromise on matters of principle. orbán and his government are depriving hungarians of the basic conditions of the european way of life, they are violating the principles of the rule of law and, if they do not fully implement what unites us in principle, they will also deprive hungary of funds for economic recovery.
madam president, the story going around here, of course, is that the mighty hungary is holding the poor eu hostage, demanding billions in exchange for lifting its council veto on the ukraine aid deal and on corporate tax rates. but who’s blackmailing who? because what’s going on here looks a lot less like hungary blackmailing the eu and a lot more like the eu extorting hungary. get in line on ukraine. give us your council votes or you won’t get your cash. both sides, of course, are happily colluding in the pretence that hungary is actually doing anything about the rule of law and fundamental rights. and the people of hungary, the ones suffering because of the rule of law crisis in that country, they don’t feature in the calculus anywhere. it’s absolutely disgraceful that the rule of law has been weaponised by the commission in this way. the only condition for hungary getting its money should be that it sorts out its rule of law problems, nothing else. if a filthy deal on council votes has been cut, the commission has to come clean about it and the parliament has to oppose it.
madam president, hungary certainly has huge rule-of-law problems, but giving out about hungary would carry a lot more weight if we were consistent. but sadly, the european union could sell hypocrisy. you lecture hungary and poland, yet in your own member states, police can beat protesters in the streets and fire rubber bullets at them and that’s ok. the commission talks about withholding eur 7.5 billion from hungary under the conditionality regulation, yet the eu is happy to pour billions and support ukraine, despite the fact that in 2021 the european court of auditors’ report said it was one of the most corrupt countries in europe. the eu lectures countries about rule of law, and also on human rights when it suits its geopolitical agenda. we have an association agreement with israel. how come we’ve no problem with the rule of law when it comes to how israel treats the palestinians? what about the human rights of the palestinians? do they not matter? we’re perfectly happy to do business with them.
madam president, i would like to thank you. over a decade of attacks on democracy and the rule of law, of attacks on lgbtq activists, of attacks on human rights defenders. 17 inadequate reforms, and even these the orbán government cannot live up to. the commission, the result must be: no money. no money is going to this government. because if this money is not frozen, there are comrades all over europe who are watching this situation, who like orbán precisely because of his lack of democracy, and who would like to see something similar. we have such forces in my country too, in sweden. the swedish democrats are called. they are impressed by how orbán can trample on everyone's rights, trample on democracy, trample on the independence of the courts. that's exactly what they want to do in sweden too, if we don't watch out. don't let this get out. don't pay any money to hungary. ensure respect for democracy and the rule of law.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for this debate which reflects its important positions and considerations. the commission is taking good note of your concerns. let me recall that the conditionality regulation is a preventive tool against risk to the eu budget. we have to approach the problems we can all see with the mind-set of fixing problems. the ongoing conditionality procedure is an opportunity to prove that triggering the new mechanism brings results. hungary has committed to substantially reform its system. as i explained, the commission’s assessment is ongoing and will be finalised without undue delay before the end of this month. to answer to your remarks, we are assessing whether the commitments have been correctly specified in the enacting laws and implementing rules, and implemented accordingly and hence put an end to the risk of the breaches of the rule of law for the sound financial management of the union budget and the union’s financial interests. the european parliament is an important partner in the implementation of the regulation. let me assure you on the importance we attach to applying the regulation in the soundest way. the recovery and resilience facility follows a different objective and distinct parameters. it will be important to link the disbursements of funds under the rrf to the milestones of the national plan, including those linked to strengthening the independence of the judiciary. like in the case of the conditionality procedure, the final decision regarding the approval of hungary’s recovery and resilience plan lies with the council. concerning the conditionality mechanism, the mitigation of the risks to the sound financial management and the protection of the eu budget remain our ultimate goals. moreover, let me recall that the commission also shares a number of the perceptions relating to the wider rule of law concerns in hungary, for instance, in the european parliament’s resolute proposals in the article 7 procedure. i updated the council during a hearing relating to the article 7 procedure on hungary last friday. we also had the opportunity to exchange with parliament’s rapporteur, madam gwendoline delbos-corfield. we will continue to use all the instruments at our disposal to protect the rule of law, including the infringement proceedings against different laws containing, for us, some discriminations. and before concluding, i want to add that we are also concerned by the context: only a month ago, the hungarian government launched a national consultation on eu sanctions against russia after the government itself gave its express approval, like all other member states. but, for the moment, we assess the efficiency of the measures proposed by the hungarian government in the framework of the conditionality regulation and the milestones put in the recovery and resilience plan. so we’ll come, very soon as said, with an assessment, our own assessment of the commission on all those measures to see if they are efficient enough to go forward.
the deadline for tabling motions for resolutions to wind up this debate will expire today at 19.00. the debate is closed and the vote will be held on thursday. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the european parliament has examined the rule of law situation in hungary on numerous occasions. however, the political motivation behind the impeding of the country's recovery and resilience plans is unprecedented and shocking at the institutional level. respect for the common values of the european union is in our common interest, and therefore a priority for hungary as well. as full members of the european union, we are entitled to access to the common eu funding funds that are legally available to hungary. in the last decade, we have made countless progress, including in the fight against poverty and the integration of roma. we have reduced the number of people living in extreme poverty from 27.8% to 8% and created almost one million new jobs. however, the cuts threaten not only our achievements to date but also our future commitments. i therefore regard as unfair any attempt to use political pressure to make it more difficult to use eu funds and to obtain them from the member states. it saddens me particularly that my fellow opposition meps here in the ep are assisting this political action without regard for the interests of their own citizens. it is not important for the hungarian left-wing mps that our country can become a successful and prosperous member of the eu, helping hungarian society catch up and achieve our common european goals. i suggest that my colleagues in the house look into the suspected illicit party funding of the 2022 parliamentary election campaign, which is linked to the left. believe me, you'd find a lot of interesting things.
in writing. the european union is founded on values such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy and equality. the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, are reflected in the eu charter of fundamental rights and enshrined in international human rights treaties. the european parliament needs assurances that hungary is serious about the remedies. corruption and dubious public procurement in european funds cannot be tolerated in any member state of the european union. this also relates to the state of the judiciary and the rule of law in the country. the decision by hungary not to participate in enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the eppo is also not a positive signal. the hungarian government's priorities are not sufficient to address the existing systemic risk to the eu's financial interests. transparency must be the basis for the reallocation of european financial resources.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on ‘prevention, management and better care of diabetes in the eu on the occasion of world diabetes day’ (2022/2901(rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, more than 32 million people live with diabetes. that is one in ten adults in the eu. this figure has doubled in the last decade and that is an alarm call for us all. diabetes is one of the greatest health challenges of modern times and this challenge will continue to increase unless we take action and unless we all work together. last week we marked world diabetes day, and this gives us an opportunity each year to shine a light on diabetes and to relook and examine our efforts, to identify what we need to do better, to prevent, to educate and to raise awareness and to listen to patients and all stakeholders. but we all know that this is not a responsibility that we should be doing just one day a year. so i’m delighted to be part of today’s discussion, and i welcome the european parliament’s resolution on diabetes. this resolution is an important signal to european citizens and of course to all diabetes patients. diabetes cannot be seen as only one disease. it is also a dangerous multiplier. it is important to address the risks of developing diabetes or even having high blood sugar levels, including through nutrition and physical activity. diabetes, we know, increases the risks of other conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases and stroke. and those with diabetes run a more serious risk of serious disease when affected by covid. diabetes puts a heavy economic strain on health budgets, at about 9% of the eu health expenditure in 2019. but let’s look at the positive side and let’s see what can be done. the burden of type—2 diabetes can be reduced through healthy lifestyles, through better diets, through physical activity, through not smoking and avoiding alcohol use. we need to help citizens live healthy lives with healthy minds and healthy bodies. and this is in order to ensure healthy futures. we need to help them to make healthy choices. the ‘healthier together’ eu non—communicable diseases initiative aims to do exactly this. this has a budget for 2022 of eur 156 million, and through this initiative, we are helping member states to identify and to implement actions to reduce the burden of non—communicable diseases. we are financing joint actions that address risk factors related to diabetes and of course other non—communicable diseases. data on diabetes and prediabetes is often lacking and we’re working to fill this gap. to do this, we’re financing a feasibility study to assess the possibility for the collection of data on non—communicable diseases, and this will start with diabetes as the pilot area. we are financing research to better understand diabetes and to answer important questions such as how can we prevent the development of type—2 diabetes? or how can we replace insulin for the treatment of diabetes type 1? how can we help those with diabetes in the self—management of their disease? horizon 2020 and horizon europe – through the innovative medicines initiative that partners with the pharmaceutical industry – enable this research. ladies and gentlemen, on world diabetes day, i called on member states and all stakeholders to collaborate, to work together to improve the lives of all europeans living with diabetes. with the actions under the eu4health programme, we will support member states, patient groups and health professionals, and i want to thank you for the ongoing support of this parliament for eu4health. but more importantly, we can deliver concrete benefits to all diabetes patients and we can strengthen prevention across the eu. together, i firmly believe we are able to build healthy societies and we are able to look towards a healthier future for all.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. thank you, commissioner. thank you for a good introduction and for recognising the great challenges of diabetes in the eu, where almost one in nine eu citizens has diabetes - either type one or type two. that is why it is very important and good that we are debating it today and that a new resolution is now adopted. because there is much we can do, and there is much we should do. it's serious for people living with diabetes. they need a better quality of life. but it's also serious for our health care providers. and the worst part is that we can do something about it! in my view, we must have broken the curve in the eu in terms of the number of people with diabetes. type two in particular can be prevented by healthier lifestyles, and we actually have a lot of things we can do in the eu. we can help create better consumer information for our food, we can reduce the salt and sugar content of many of our processed products, and so on. the risk factors are our responsibility in the eu. but first and foremost, we have to think about the patients who are living with diabetes, and we have to give them a better life. diabetes is a serious disease. let us also take it seriously politically, please.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, diabetes is one of the greatest health challenges of our time. that was what you said in the opening remarks, commissioner. and i would add to that: one of the most underrated challenges. one in ten europeans - it has been said - lives with diabetes and almost half of them cannot control it. diabetes is a factor in a number of other diseases, including but not limited to heart disease. yet one in three diabetics in europe is unaware. ten years after the first resolution of our parliament on the subject, which was considered to be the time of the epidemic, today's resolution is a real wake-up call. the commission published an initiative on non-communicable diseases in june. i am looking for the real concrete objectives for diabetes among the avenues that have been studied, but left to the discretion of the member states. what are these goals? where are the risk reduction targets? and yet you mentioned prevention of type 2 diabetes, systematic diagnosis, monitoring of blood sugar, fighting against prejudice that is outdated and also against a certain stigma? it is therefore imperative that we now set these ambitious targets to spark a new wave of national plans and support patients, often neglected between two annual consultations, at best sometimes, of course also accelerating research and the arrival of innovations. it has been said and repeated, especially during the pandemic, that the treaty is not very generous in terms of a europe of health. but even in this narrow reading, europe still has an added value here. it's real. it is. it is up to us to impose it.
for the greens/efa group madam president, world diabetes day was last monday and unfortunately it was an opportunity to highlight the growing number of people with this disease. despite the various initiatives at european level, coordination for prevention and access to care remains limited. this must change and that is the aim of this resolution. but more than that, the resolution contains three important changes. the first is the end of discrimination against people with diabetes. no, a person with diabetes should not be excluded from a profession or a school course because of his illness. the second is access to care and innovation. transparency in drug pricing and the use of research funds is key to this. the third change that this resolution calls for is the transition to a healthy environment and diet. europe has a major role to play in coordinating member states' efforts, for example through the green pact and the cap. i would like to end by stressing once again that environmental and health issues are extremely interrelated and need to be tackled together.
for the left. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank the rapporteurs for their exemplary cooperation in the negotiations of this resolution, which i had the honour of chairing. i hope that the consensus we have had throughout the process will also be translated into a smooth vote. what we have not agreed on, and i regret that, is again the issue of patent rights. it is almost 100 years since frederick banting, the inventor of insulin, gave up his patent on the substance and made his famous statement: "insulin belongs to the world, not to me". and it is sad that almost 100 years after this scientist's self-sacrificing gesture, some of my colleagues, particularly on the right, are so ideologically blinded that they refuse to even mention this step in the resolution under discussion. up to 32 million people in the eu live with some form of diabetes. half of them have abnormal blood sugar levels, which leads to long-term and serious health problems. on the occasion of world diabetes day and 100 years since the selfless gesture of one scientist, we need to deepen cooperation at european level in the fight against this disease.
madam commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. with the number of diabetics continuing to rise, it is clear that we need to act more decisively and effectively. the best we can do is to educate and raise awareness among citizens at all levels and at all ages. when one member of the family is sick, the whole family is affected, especially if children are sick. by raising awareness of the causes of disease, we can influence the lifestyle of citizens to reduce their exposure to risks. prevention is always cheaper and better than cure. the european union has a wealth of knowledge, but unfortunately our citizens do not all have the same conditions and opportunities to fight this disease. when we in the european union pool our knowledge, experience, actions and, therefore, allocate funds from our common budget, we can make incredible changes, we can change many things for the better.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, each person is different; their diabetes is different too. the possibility should be given to choose the most appropriate form for each patient. there are technological advances that should be exploited because they extend life expectancy and reduce complications. close glucose monitoring with modern systems, real-time administration of insulin is essential. and the bombs. and it is no longer a dream to implant sustained release insulin nanoforms. social awareness and understanding of the disease and of people with diabetes, a global id card that allows those closest to recognize the symptoms and provide support in hypoglycaemia, naturalness in airport security checks, facilities for children, training or food sugar labels are also very important. and also to encourage the nursing services, since they are the ones who are responsible for the usual care of patients, so that they know how to deal with, for example, the decompensations of adolescence: their work allows europe to have a privileged position. and of course, investment in research is needed to go deeper and understand why autoimmune diseases like diabetes are on the rise. it is necessary to create and share knowledge and good practice to achieve more in the european space.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. 100 years after the discovery of insulin and about 10 years after the debate in parliament that preceded it, i think it's a success that we were able to bring this issue to the plenary. but how will this improve the lives of people with insulin resistance, people with diabetes in the european union? in hungary, more than 1,300 out of every 10,000 people are affected, more than one million to one hundred thousand people. and the question is, will this debate bring something new, something easier to them, or to those who will fall prey to this disease in the future? that's why we created the european health union. that's why we're talking about, while health is a national responsibility, there has to be a european level of coordination, support and policy coordination for european health. because what's important to me is that every european citizen has equal access to care, prevention, treatment, medicines, devices. that's what the health union is about, not just diabetes, but other diseases.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every disease is serious, but when the disease affects us personally, then the disease, absurdly, becomes even more serious. it's like that for everybody, and it's like that for me. so what do we do? you dig into the data, you work at it to figure out what you can do, how, when, why, where, who? the worldwide estimate of diabetics (data from the international diabetes federation) is growing rapidly. it has risen from an estimated 151 million in 2000 to an estimated 285 million in 2009 and will reach 536 million in 2021. diabetes is a plague, it affects the weaker social classes. but what do we do in europe? i found that in europe there is no distinction in the data collection between type 1 and type 2 diabetes. if we want to win the battle against diabetes, we need to work as a team, align data from all eu member states, invest in research and experiment with all the possible innovations that science has to offer. prevention is better than cure, but to prevent it, you have to know; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, diabetes, or diabetes mellitus, or the silent killer, we like to call these very common diseases. and the silent killer is because many of us don't know if he's our companion or not. there are 33 million people in europe today who are already diagnosed with diabetes, 38 million are expected to be diagnosed by 2030, and i myself was diagnosed a good month ago in a medical examination in the european parliament, that i had better start taking pills and catch my blood sugar near the limit. at the same time, the doctor logically told him what to do. losing between 10 and 15 kilos, having a healthier lifestyle, exercising. i say this because i think the most important thing in all of this is to really make diagnostics accessible, to make people realise as soon as possible that diabetes is our companion, to make sure that we have access to treatment that is on a par with the rest of europe. it is therefore right that this is a european action, that we also have research in this area and that we also finance preventive actions and the treatment of this disease with the help of european funds, especially national funds. the exchange of good practice is certainly very important. i am very pleased that on world diabetes day we are also discussing this important issue in the european parliament.
madam president, we have heard the statistics: 33 million people in the eu living with diabetes, predicted to rise to 38 million in 2030. these are absolutely astounding figures. i mean, one in ten people, hundreds of millions of people worldwide. particularly concerning is the fact of the rise of type 1 diabetes in children increasing considerably, with strong geographical disparities being indicated. although the reason for the epidemic cannot yet be precisely explained, environmental factors are being put forward. it’s really clear that in the face of this epidemic, there has to be major investment in this area to ensure scientific advances on the source of the disease, but also – as colleagues have said – to support patients. type 2 diabetes has been strongly linked to diet, obesity, lack of exercise and so on. we absolutely have to get to the core of this. but in the face of an already dismal situation in many european health systems, lack of public investment and privatisation of care, diabetes risks once again exacerbating inequalities between different socio—economic groups. we cannot allow that to happen.
madam president, the qatar world cup is yet another example of how big events are used to wash the face of authoritarian regimes. to host a world cup in a country which violates 20 of the 30 articles of the un charter is a political message, the message that money is above human rights. qatari law considers women to be persons under male guardianship and homosexuality a mental harm punishable by imprisonment. not to mention censorship, the banning of trade unions and political parties or the thousands of migrant workers who have died on the construction sites of this world cup. a bloodstained world cup. while fifa and its corrupt women line their pockets, the bracelets in support of the lgbtq community are banned. that's a political message. for all that, i support the boycott of this world of shame. if we can't help it, at least let our voices be heard. boycott the qatar cup.
madam president, so today, the world cup in qatar is proof, actually, of how sports diplomacy can achieve a historical transformation of a country with reforms that inspired the arab world. i alone said that qatar is a frontrunner in labour rights, abolishing kafala and reducing minimum wage. despite the challenges that even european companies are denying to enforce these laws, they committed to a vision by choice, and they opened to the world. still, some here are calling to discriminate them. they bully them and they accuse everyone that talks to them or engages of corruption. but still, they take their gas. still, they have their companies profiting billions there. i have been lectured as a greek and i remind us all that we have thousands of deaths because of our failure for legal ways of migration in europe. we can promote our values, but we do not have the moral right for lectures to get cheap media attention. and we do not impose our way, we respect them, even without lng. they are a new generation of intelligent, high—educated people. they helped us to reduce the tension with turkey. they helped us with afghanistan to save activists, children, women. they helped us. and they are peace negotiators. they are good neighbours and partners. we can help each other to overcome the shortcomings. they achieved the impossible already.
madam president, madam commissioner, the decision to hold the world cup in qatar was taken, badly, but it was taken. then, this championship was also an opportunity to improve the rights and the political situation of qatar. it's a lost opportunity. there is no doubt that today we know that women's rights, the rights of sexual, religious and ethnic minorities, we know that the rights of workers and especially the death of migrants is truly shocking for the organization of this event. we know that there are workers who have not been paid and that there are workers and families of dead workers who need to be compensated. we know there is no freedom of speech or demonstration against this event. there is no such thing in qatar, and there is no such thing in portugal, where people wearing t-shirts are banned from entering a football match. and i regret that my president of the republic, my president of parliament and my prime minister - especially the prime minister - who says he will support the selection when he can, like 10 million portuguese in portugal, are supporting an initiative of this nature. at this stage they can perfectly well be at home in portugal and at the same time be in solidarity with the suffering of the qataris and the immigrants in qatar.
madam president, commissioner, i just want to pay tribute today to the footballers of the iran national team, which showed incredible courage to stand up to their regime today in the face of very, very grave danger when they return to their countries. it stood in stark contrast to the english team, which refused to wear a simple armband. while they might have lost on the field today, a very profound victory will long outlast when the game itself is forgotten. but we should not be surprised by sports watching, particularly in football. no company would get away with the reputational damage that fifa is experiencing right now. fifa gets away with it because it’s a cartel, and the european commission has to seriously consider the relationship that it has developed with uefa around the promotion of the european green deal. i think that really has to be looked at. in the same way that some carbon consumption is unavoidable but can be offset, my message to those who feel they have to watch this is that you can offset your watching of this by making a contribution to some of the great human rights defenders organisations around the globe.
dear chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for 12 years it has been known that qatar will host the football championship. for 12 years, you've known the human rights situation there. twelve years you could have investigated if there was any corruption in fifa. twelve years you've had the opportunity to your much-loved culture of cancellation and - nothing. and now there are those who are always against patriotism, always against national pride. they are calling us not to watch the games, they want to prevent millions of people's hearts from attaching to their national symbols, and i tell you: i love croatia, i love football, i love watching the croatian national football team. you won't impose guilt. croatia is a sporting nation and our hearts go out when our national team plays and that's why no one will stop us from watching the croatian national football team's matches!
madam president, everybody knows, of course, that qatar is one of the most repressive regimes in the world, where human rights simply don’t exist for the majority of the people. of course, it’s not the only one, but the idea of improvements in minimum wage and labour conditions and so on really belies the reality for so many people – particularly the thousands who have lost their lives without any compensation. but for all the standing—up in here and crying about ‘sportswashing’ and giving out about football, the truth is that next week most people will come in here behind closed doors and agree to give qatar the privilege of visa—free travel to the eu, a privilege that most countries – more than a hundred actually – in the world don’t have. you’ll sign off on qatari progress on human rights, even as the families of the dead are still mourning their loved ones. you’ll do it for oil and gas, because the eu has cut itself off from russian energy as it’s an authoritarian regime fighting an illegal war, but you will do business with an authoritarian regime that’s fighting an illegal war in yemen. nobody’s fooled. if there was a world cup for hypocrisy, the eu would walk away the victors without a match being played!
madam president, ten years ago the european parliament expressed its reservations about awarding the championship to qatar. i think that even if some eu member states were involved in this decision within the fifa cartel, that does not absolve us of guilt. i think it's important that these issues, like human rights, minority rights, women's rights, the issue of slave labor, really get to the forefront like this. i take it as a positive for the whole episode around awarding this championship to qatar. but it's not just an episode. i think it will remain after this championship, whatever it is, a clear conviction that both players and coaches have come out against the violation of human rights, against the violation of the fundamental, the fundamental values that we perceive to be universal across the world. and maybe qatar is also at a crossroads, whether it opens the door a little bit to these human rights or if it sticks strictly to a repressive system, where unfortunately this universality that we see across the world does not apply.
madam president, the goal. fifa has scored a goal, the goal of money and the goal of corruption. who cares about the lives of migrant workers, women or lgbtq people in qatar? of course, fifa does not care. we do care about them. that is why last week the commission on human rights held a hearing with a qatari minister and with several ngos who came on purpose to discuss the very serious situation, commissioner. sports is more than money. we don't like to have relations with a slave-holding, homophobic, sexist country. we care about those lives. that's why i support the "boycott qatar" campaign, like this photograph that many groups are promoting, including athletes, including football players who defend human rights. turn off the tv, turn off the tv during the world cup. boycott the qatar cup.
i should however say that according to our rules we are not allowed to show photos or banners here in the plenary. same rules for everyone.
madam president, i’ve been involved in football all my life. i love football. the game of football thrives in spite of fifa, not because of it. and the human rights situation in qatar is soul destroying. and fifa and qatar should ensure a massive and comprehensive remediation programme for migrant workers and their families. but the eu’s hypocrisy in calling out human rights abuses in qatar is a bit galling. the commission’s repowereu plan to wean europe off russian gas involves buying more of it from qatar. meanwhile, the eu is about to provide visa—free, short—stay travel for qataris. why don’t we give it to every country if qatar qualifies? we do what suits our business interests and our geopolitical agenda. where is the next world cup? four years’ time in the us. a failed state of systemic racism, police brutality and impunity, extraordinary renditions, extrajudicial detentions and torture of prisoners. the us imprisons more of its population than any country on earth. and they produce 11 billion worth of business and slave labour rates. if qatar shouldn’t have got the world cup, the americans shouldn’t get it either.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the nextgenerationeu fund was conceived at a time when we were dealing with cheap money. the era of cheap money is over. the maintenance costs are therefore also clearly increasing. i'm sure the commissioner is aware of that. it is good that the commission has developed a strategy for raising funds, that it uses different instruments, 'green bonds', long-term bonds, treasury bills. i understand he's trying to cut down on his borrowing costs. but there is no doubt that they will increase, and that is something to be aware of. i would like to make a few serious reservations. i represent a large european country, poland. as the commissioner knows very well, my country has not yet used the cfp funds, simply because we have a political blockade against the polish cfp. we have submitted this plan in accordance with the regulations that regulate the operation of the plans, and yet this blockage has not been lifted so far. i hope that's the way it's gonna be in the future. and although we are not discussing new sources of funding today, because the debate on this subject will take place tomorrow, i would like to draw attention to or raise two objections to this matter. first, these new instruments are unfortunately much more disadvantageous to the less prosperous countries than to the prosperous ones. and this is especially apparent in the tax on unprocessed plastic. and second caveat some of these instruments take the energy transition, the climate transition from the member countries and so they will not allow them to achieve these goals.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the joint european loan of 750 billion euro to set up the european recovery fund was one of the major positive moments for the european union. that is why this plan must succeed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council must therefore stop delaying and dragging its feet. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. and secondly, since we all agree that it is a good tool and we are in a period of high inflation and with the risk of recession, we need this tool not only to work, but to make such tools permanent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, commissioner, the debate we are having today is undoubtedly a before and after in the design of the european union, just as the decision to issue the next generation eu debt was, without a doubt, looking for the gaps or the spaces that the treaties allowed us. and i want to congratulate the commission on its debt strategy, which has the applause of our creditors, of the markets. but i would like to stress or encourage the european commission a little more to clarify the map in order to have the own resources needed to pay off the debt. we already know that the digital tax we expected will not be passed. we need to find additional resources. we have that agreement to set a minimum corporation tax of 15% which might well give us the opportunity to introduce a tax for those who benefit from the internal market, the single market. and i think we need more ambition, more work and more commitment from the european commission to clarify the own resources framework completely.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. we knew we were playing with fire in 2020, and we've proven it. we did not seek to solve the pandemic crisis at the expense of future generations, but we did listen to the pleas of the south in difficulty. you know, we had our own bad experience: hungary was endlessly indebted by the communists, and under the weight of this the first freely elected government after 1990 almost collapsed. we didn't want the union to end up like this. in 2020, we agreed that the recovery and resilience fund, financed by the loan, is a one-off and emergency solution. we now see that parliament would make this instrument permanent, and would also include it in the budget. i am convinced that this is totally incompatible with article 310 of the treaty. it is not a question of borrowing again, but of allowing member states to use the existing framework as quickly as possible and with as few obstacles as possible. hungary, of course, has not even gotten the restoration money yet, while paying the interest on the loan. as we saw in today's debate, the left-wing majority will not rest until hungary has a conservative government. i only trust in the commission's good sense to give an impartial assessment of the measures taken by hungary to ensure the fair use of resources and agreed with the commission.
president, we have always opposed the so-called corona recovery fund, also called nextgenerationeu. but thanks to prime minister rutte, the door was opened to common european debt, with the dutch 'triple a' guarantee of course. however, it now appears that the feasibility, affordability and transparency of the fund are lacking. the report shows that the commission has not yet developed a methodology to evaluate the promised reforms of the host member states. in addition, the commission has insufficient visibility of national internal control systems. how can the commission check that the money has been spent efficiently? the european ombudsman expressed her concerns and the european court of auditors came up with a list of areas for improvement. follow the money, an investigative journalism platform, has revealed that the commission refuses to release documents, making it difficult to monitor the billions of dollars it has borrowed. nextgenerationeu is a mistake and own resources are undesirable. let this be a one-time thing.
madam president, we have not really gotten used to the pandemic, but we have tried to borrow at the expense of future generations, and that is a fairly large amount. it is important to realise that the european union is the largest issuer of bonds and that the stability of financial and capital markets in particular needs to be strengthened. and in this constellation, i am sure it is important that the eu builds up its additional financial resources. i would not have said that before, but for some years now i have been inclined to the idea that europe should really build its own financial resources. there are certainly significant risks that have already been mentioned here. it's inflation, it's the question of member states and unimplemented structural reforms. i think we have a big challenge ahead of us in ukraine and the danger of russian aggression. it is important to remember that this money we are calling for, which the european union will eventually have to borrow, will be paid back for decades. that is, the need for own financial resources is indeed necessary.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly debating this report on the lending strategy for financing the next generation, a necessary project, because yes, there is a crisis. but what we have to say to the citizens, because we're not talking abstractly like this, we're borrowing 2 billion, 2 billion, 450 billion. the citizen wants to know how he can influence this budget, his life, so that he can live better. and we know well that there are geographical areas where we have a lack of social cohesion and a hard life for citizens, winter is coming, we have the bills. how do we use this money? the efficiency! here we have to focus on efficiency. and yes, who knows what the interest will be until we pay it back in 2058? and along with the borrowing, you had to automatically find those own sources of income to be able to offset the expenses with these large loans. and it's a black ball for the council, which is blocking and always lately or at least since i've been here, the council is noted for being blocking at everything. that is why, commissioner, please insist that we go on our own resources so that we can be sure that we do not owe three generations after us.
madam president, nextgenerationeu is not a new post—austerity era for europe. seven hundred and fifty billion sounds like a lot, but it amounts to barely 5% of the eu’s total gdp. what’s more, the funds would be given largely in the form of loans, and over the course of six years resulting, according to the ecb’s own estimates, in a fiscal expansion of around 1% of gdp on average between 2021 and 2024 at best. the nextgenerationeu plan is firmly embedded in the eu semester programme. the eu semester programme has consistently demanded that member state governments cut public spending. it has resulted in public health spending cuts, pension cuts, unemployment benefit cuts. now, nextgenerationeu funds come with very strict troika—like conditions attached. this is same old eu debt in exchange for neoliberal reform strategy.
madam president, nextgenerationeu is the eu’s 800 billion temporary recovery instrument, supposedly to support economic recovery from the corona pandemic and to achieve the eu’s climate, digital and economic goals. it sounds pretty good – not for ireland, mind you, where there is less than a billion euros and there won’t be much delivered on that. but let’s remember there is no such thing as a free ride: money borrowed from the markets will not be given away without conditions. we’ve already seen that, for instance, in relation to the monies that france would receive as part of the recovery plan being conditional on achievements in terms of specific objectives such as changing unemployment insurance and so on. this is not good enough. neither is it good enough that the citizens would be expected to pay this back. while we can talk, and it’s fine, about the idea of a financial transaction tax, this has been discussed since 2013. we’ve got to join the dots on this. we need to make sure that the citizens don’t pay, but get the benefits from this.
how much power should the european union have, mr president? when it stops and when we say: is that enough? since the union was founded, many in parliament have been striving for more eu. the power and the budgets have only increased, even after brexit. we want a smaller, different eu. what does that mean, "i'm not"? the starting point should be that the member states make the eu, not the other way around. many eu activities need to be reversed. in other words: many cases can be dismissed today. a european foreign policy, crisis management, development cooperation, gender policy or issues such as culture and neighbourhood are all things that are not necessary for a successful common market. the eu must confine itself to its core task. it's good for everyone.
madam president, this year ireland sanctioned russian officials and – surprise surprise – last week russia returned the favour, sanctioning 52 irish politicians. states respond in kind. in international law it’s called ‘retorsion’: a legal and proportionate diplomatic response to hostility. yet the irish government were apoplectic with outrage, our taoiseach talking about ‘hybrid warfare’. what does he expect? foreign policy isn’t a game, it should be conducted in the interests of our people. instead, our taoiseach has leapfrogged us over france and germany to align with the extremist outliers in poland and the baltics. he’s gone out of his way to provoke. this is lunacy for a small country with a small military. and where is his mandate? neutrality is incredibly popular. not only that, we pimped it in order to get a seat on the un security council. and, instead of using that seat for peace, we have escalated and talked up the fight at every turn. de valera must be turning in his grave.
madam president, during this summer and autumn, more than 70 monuments to the liberators of latvia from german nazi occupiers were dismantled, despite the decision of the un human rights committee urging latvia to refrain from demolition. i was among those who addressed the committee. it appeared that the land on which one of the monuments was staying belonged to my ancestors, victims of the holocaust. the fight against monuments of the past continues with the repressions of people living in latvia nowadays. after dissolution of the ussr, one third of latvian residents became so-called ‘aliens’. most of them are local natives. some are still preserving this status, but some, mostly elderly people, acquired the citizenship of russia. the new retroactive law norm requires annulation of their permanent residence permit in case of weak knowledge of latvian language. thousands will soon face being made illegal in their homes in latvia and, therefore, in the eu. shame.
madam president, commissioner, social cohesion is one of the objectives of the european union. social cohesion in the internal market in the 27 member states. but how can there be social cohesion when we have a fragmented market? when do we have double standards? when i see that my country for 11 years is not in the schengen area. we have two europe, schengen and non-schengen. and just today we discussed how to apply the regulation. we have a schengen regulation, the regulation applies, it is not discussed, it is not negotiated. why in the schengen regulation do we have this problem, that one country, two countries, want to control the other and it opens a pandora's box. is that how the rules apply? i knew that the guardian of the application of the treaties and regulations is the european commission. i rightly ask that my country, as my citizens, be no longer treated as second-hand goods and, as explained here, there will certainly be an efficiency for the whole internal market. but, commissioner, there is a huge danger of growing euroscepticism, of citizens' distrust and, of course, of what is happening to the european project. i therefore ask the council to vote for romania and bulgaria to join the schengen area. not because we begged for this support, but because it is our right as citizens.
madam president, fighting depopulation, strengthening the economy of the north-west of the peninsula, improving infrastructure are some of the measures that my political party, the galician nationalist bloc, has been advocating for galicia for years: including galicia in the european corridor of the trans-european transport network. but there is more to this galician claim: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. but we must avoid confusing and manipulating with sterile controversies. the pressure through the atlantic corridor is not incompatible with the mediterranean corridor and vice versa. they must be treated as two complementary strategic projects of the spanish state for europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. equal treatment between the atlantic and mediterranean corridors implies increased investment in the atlantic corridor.
madam president, the un special rapporteur on the negative impact of unilateral coercive measures on the enjoyment of human rights, alena douhan, has just published her preliminary findings on our mission to the syrian arab republic. everyone should read this document, it is both tragic and infuriating. it’s tragic to read about the plight of the working-class people of syria. and it’s infuriating to learn of the gross violations of human rights being wilfully perpetrated against the syrian people by these illegal unilateral measures imposed by the us and eu. the figures detailed in the report are shocking. the poverty, food and fuel insecurity, the impact on health care and education. the catastrophic impact of unilateral sanctions is affecting people from all walks of life across the country, douhan has said. as long as they are silent on our authoritarianism, our blanket repression and our immiseration of the syrian people, eu states and politicians have no credibility talking about human rights anywhere.
madam president, i organised the first conference on women and decision-making in ireland over 30 years ago. this directive has been blocked for ten years. what is it about women’s equality that makes it so difficult for people to have agreement, to go forward, to have equal representation? it continues and we have to work hard. well done to commissioner dalli and to the president of the commission, ursula von der leyen, for unblocking this. of course we need it, we have to accelerate the representation of women on boards, that is really important. we have good leadership here and we see the presidents of the commission, the central bank, and of course, our own parliament. but this cannot just be a shooting star, one effort. it has to be methodical, it has to be systematic. and we have to make sure that there is a permanent change to ensure that women are more equally represented and that our companies benefit from the presence of women, because it is necessarily culturally, socially and of course, financially and economically. because having more women on the boards of a company isn’t just a step towards societal justice, it is an economic imperative. and right now we have too few women. isn’t it incredible that only 6.7% of women are chairs of boards and only 6.5% across europe are ceos? yet adding one more woman to a company board increases the profits of that company and gives a higher return in assets to the tune of 8 to 13 basis points. so this directive has the power to change, and from today we will begin to see more women on those eu company boards. and that’s a good thing for everybody.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i welcome the commission's proposals. it shows commitment to the interinstitutional agreement on own resources. i mean if we expect europe to do more, we ask europe to do more, well then we must be willing to fund it as well. we spoke today about 70 years of celebration of parliament in strasbourg, representing european citizens. so we have accountability in the context of a parliament through the democratic process but, at the same time, we have no capacity to change people’s lives and european citizens’ lives because of our inability to provide a continuity around the funding of own resources. there is no doubt that some of the proposals put forward in regard to the emissions trading scheme and the carbon border adjustment fund will by their nature reduce over a period of time. and if we want to expand the role that the european union plays in terms of addressing climate challenges, the digitisation of our economy, supporting the next generation recovery resilience fund and the challenges that are still very evident among the member states because of the pressures with regard to cost of living, inflation and energy security, we do need to have certainty. and i would urge the council in particular to come forward and break loose of their chains with regard to their very restrictive views of how we fund own resources. the template is there. the oecd report has made recommendations, and i believe it is now time for the council to come forward with proposals. i say this as a person who still advocates for the certainty of national competency around taxation, but the council collectively can still come to an agreement to address the issue of funding own resources into the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. our strategy towards china is a great challenge, because it poses the question: what do we want to be as the european union at the end of the era of turbo-globalisation through pandemic and war? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. or do we want to be a confident middle power? we are faced with this decision, particularly with china. we'll have to do our homework, because my decision is secondary. and homework means that we need to have an eu supply chain law internally, by seeing that we get our trade relations diversified, that we ban forced labor, that we tackle our cybersecurity and we are a strong space for ourselves accordingly. this means that for our consumers, costs - products - are becoming less and more expensive. but that is the price we are willing to pay if we are to act strategically autonomously vis-à-vis china. i want to defend this autonomy. and i would like to ask you here as high representative to fight for this autonomy. but that also means keeping in touch with china, but please with one voice, no matter who is speaking.
madam president, dear commissioner, high representative, some see intellectual property theft on an almost industrial scale as the second-oldest profession in the world. what’s new? instead of the slow drainage of our economic competitiveness, some see unfair competition with state subsidies, non-reciprocal market access just as mere trade issues, technical, instead of a frontal attack on our prosperity. and some see chinese disinformation or support for dictators worldwide or its relationship with russia, its military build-up as merely an expression of the new multipolar world, ‘get used to it’, instead of an attack on the liberal world order. well, the eu, we respond to such threats with numerous pieces of legislation, critical entities, cybersecurity, foreign direct investment and what have you. but we do so with a country-agnostic, a country-neutral approach. but, in practice, this significantly hampers the effectiveness of these measures. country-specific problems need country-specific legislation. we might believe we live in peace with the world, but china dictates itself that is in conflict with us. so act accordingly and let’s legislate accordingly.
madam president, it seems the european union has not learned its lesson. even with the terrible human and economic costs of covid-19, the ccp’s terror against all goods and people across china and growing aggression abroad, some eu leaders still think there can be business as usual with the ccp. we have also discovered that the united front, an arm of the ccp, has a network of offices across europe, spreading the ccp’s malign influence in our institutions and using them as de facto police stations to control the chinese diaspora. i ask, what more does it take for us to wake up and understand what sort of regime we are dealing with? i therefore call on those eu member states who have not yet done so to launch formal investigations and ensure the immediate closing of these illegal police stations. it is not merely disturbing that the totalitarian regime is allowed to engage in such illegal extra-territorial activities in the eu. their presence poses a grave security risk, not only for the chinese diaspora, but for the very foundations of our democracy.
it is essential that european member states become more independent in strategic matters such as technology, rare earth metals and critical infrastructure. we have seen how russia has blackmailed europe with energy. we can't let that happen to china again. strategic autonomy serves our economic interests, but also the role of europe as a community of values. under the xi regime, there are widespread human rights violations and genocide and organ harvesting and you name it. we must hold china accountable for these crimes. greater economic independence from china will enhance the strength and credibility of our position. i hope mr. borrell was listening after all.
madam president, china is a great power which, because of its size and its political, economic and demographic weight, we cannot ignore. it is clear that we need to rely on china to address global challenges. we have to coexist with china. a relationship where there will be cooperation, but also competition and rivalry. speaking of cooperation, china, a permanent member of the security council, must openly distance itself from moscow and actively contribute to ending russian aggression. there is no room for ambiguity or neutrality. or they shouldn't fit. but i want to talk today about the technology sector: i am concerned about the exchange of advanced technologies. the union must be vigilant, especially with regard to those which are likely to be used for military purposes. we have seen how recently, on 7 october, the biden administration (the high representative has just referred to this) adopted restrictive measures on the export of advanced semiconductors to china. will you discuss these restrictions, mr borrell, at the trade and technology council meeting on 5 december? from what i see, he's sending some of his collaborators next week. you're doing the right thing. i think it is a very important and topical subject and i think it should be followed with great interest. the semiconductor issue is key. we can't be dependent, but we have to be careful with exports, which is where washington is. they will have to re-evaluate their relations with china, also taking into account their attitude towards moscow.
madam president, vice—president, for decades europe believed that strong economic ties and trade and multilateral cooperation would help to promote democracy and human rights in china. we now know that was not the case and that president xi only used this to strengthen his own power. europe must learn from the mistakes we made with russia. we were far too dependent on russian fossil fuels, and now when we are boosting our green transition and digitalisation, we must not allow ourselves to become dependent on chinese critical raw materials. we must find alternative suppliers and develop our own production capabilities. this is why i welcome the chips act’s objective of doubling europe’s share of semiconductors, and i look forward to the commission’s upcoming proposal on critical raw materials. europe can’t afford to neglect our own security of supply and resilience. trade with china must be fair and also reciprocal.
madam president, i wanted to say that i like mr borrell's approach because 'okay, we all condemn the regime and its characteristics in china, but that doesn't solve our problem' china is a very powerful competitor, it has a strategy to dominate the world until 2049 and we certainly cannot afford to close down, to suffer an inward-looking crisis, that is, not in trade, not in investment, etc. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems that exist in the european union, and that it is very much aware of the problems that exist in the united states, and that it is very much aware of the problems that exist in the united kingdom, and that it is very much aware of the problems that exist in the united states. i also think it is wrong to compare china with russia, because russia is a moderate power. it may be a nuclear superpower, but china is confident in itself and has a long-term strategy. finally, to understand what's going on in china, since we have the language problem, i suggest we do think tanks with representatives from taiwan and from australia, because in my visits to these countries i saw that they analyze china, they know the language and they know more than us.
madam president, there’s a lack of seriousness when it comes to eu-china relations. we have real issues to address. global warming, for example, areas that need respectful diplomacy and cooperation. the repetition of the stream of baseless accusations that originate in washington does nothing for the eu’s standing as a respectful international partner and interlocutor. the taiwan stuff is the most reckless us provocation in living memory, and we’d do well to distance ourselves from us. china wants to work with the eu. we should not allow the us to undermine our relationship with china. right now, the continuation of the us/nato proxy war in ukraine is decimating european industry. factories are closing across europe. decent jobs are going where there’s cheaper labour and gas. europe has been hollowed out, with no apparent plan to fill the gap. this is not a path towards a stable future for europe, and we’d do well to show china a bit more respect. they do respect us.
madam president, i believe we must deal with china on an equal footing. there is no doubt that china is a crucial factor in solving global conflicts and also global issues. it is important for us to address china's consistent environmental policy interests. but we also find that for china, they are often just words, see the current chinese approach in sharm el-sheikh in egypt. how did the conference go? unfortunately, china has not supported our efforts, which we consider important in terms of sustaining climate goals. i could talk about the issue of raw materials that china is not yet open to europe as we imagine, but also about conflicting interests, where it is the area of human rights, where it is the area of protecting minorities, suppressing the rights of religious minorities and uyghurs. i think these are all issues that we need to project into our relationship with china.
mr president, i have to say, i found this discussion quite depressing. its tone has been largely arrogant and neo-colonial. and it’s interesting that even biden at his recent meeting with xi at the g20, made the point that he does not seek a new cold war with china. he has no intention of having a conflict with china. he doesn’t want to contain china and that the us is committed to the one-china policy and does not seek to use taiwan as a tool. now, obviously none of this can be taken at face value. he’s not exactly the most reliable statesman, but it must be remarked upon. and interestingly, it is radically less hawkish than some of the nonsense coming out of this chamber earlier in the discussion and over the last number of years. and given that many of you have been sucking up to washington, ramping up your anti-chinese rhetoric and doing your best to sabotage eu ties with china, our largest trading partner, shooting ourselves in the foot, you might want to take note. rather than starting fires and burning bridges, we should recognise we have serious common challenges. we must engage. we must have dialogue. we must have cooperation and mutual respect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the news coming from iran is terrible and frightening: more than 300 dead, including 40 children, 14,000 arrests and at least six death sentences. many of the women who started the protests are in prison, held in appalling conditions, tortured and raped. yet the courage of women, youth, workers, many iranians does not stop and continues to break down barriers, fueling the determination of the most prolonged protests in recent decades. in the face of this courage and the heartbreaking and agonizing demand for freedom, the european union cannot stand by and watch. i welcomed the sanctions put in place, as well as the repeated calls to release those unjustly detained, to end the violent repression, to repeal the death sentences and to guarantee the free flow of information, including access to the internet. however, i think it is important for europe to be ready to provide real and useful support. we need a coherent and concrete european foreign policy, which can react promptly to dictatorial regimes. we need a european strategy that imposes sanctions, isolates authoritarian governments and at the same time is close to countries that are moving towards the rule of law and european values. we will be very tough, but we will be equally supportive of civil society, of ngos, of those who want to rebuild an economic, educational and health system that respects the rights of women and minorities and the freedoms of all. women, life, and freedom. women, life, freedom. you know what?
mr president, we have already heard here about the brutal crackdown on protesters in iran with a lot of ordinary people being arrested, children being killed. as mrs. ries said: it doesn't really end. and actually, we should be honest and say, there is nothing that justifies the iranian regime's actions. because women have the right to stand up for their freedom, women have the right to protest against oppression, everyone has the right to take to the streets against that oppression. i have to say: i am very proud of the steps taken by our president of the european parliament, roberta metsola, to say: the european parliament has no longer any official meetings with the iranian authorities. but we are also expecting very clear action from you, commissioner. we ask that you support an independent investigation. i think that's where it all begins. and also make sure that those who are helping to drive this repression are subject to targeted sanctions. as a woman, it breaks my heart to see that in many countries it is still very dangerous to be born as a woman, as a girl. that it's dangerous to go out into the streets just because you want freedom. we have to turn the tide.
madam president, last week we had meps and members of the european external action service, and even some world leaders, spreading disinformation and claiming the iranian government had decided to impose the death penalty on nearly 15 000 protesters. when the lie was exposed, the canadian prime minister deleted this tweet, but he did not issue an apology. there are peaceful protests. many iranians are unjustly imprisoned and should be released, and far too many have been killed by the aggressive crackdown. there has also been much violence and murders by some protesters – untold damage and destruction. it would not be tolerated anywhere. john bolton has confirmed that the iranian opposition is now being armed with weapons entering iran from iraqi kurdistan. iran is under attack. the media assault is intense. the campaign of propaganda and destabilisation brings the syrian regime—change operation to mind. those who supported the so-called syrian revolution say nothing today about syria lying in ruins, illegally occupied, sanctioned to death with millions displaced and hundreds of thousands dead. is this what you want for iran?
madam president, of course, the people of iran have a right to push for change in their own country and violent crackdown against them is wrong. but the conversation in here is always about what we should do rather than what we shouldn’t do and what we should undo, because look at where that attitude has got us – hardliners here have nurtured hardliners there. these protests are organic and legitimate. i don’t believe they’re a western plot, but i also don’t doubt that there are some bad faith actors, and that shouldn’t surprise us. there are also deep-seated reasons why iran, a country under existential threat, is hyper-vigilant about threats to its sovereignty. but nothing the west is doing is helping that situation. biden, fine – we’re going to free iran is not helping any iranians. it’s the worst possible thing to say, it’s directly putting civilians in the firing line and hyping the external threat narrative. how have sanctions helped? they’ve created widespread misery and crackdown has gotten harder. draw the conclusion, this isn’t working. so what can we do? relieve the pressure, drop the sanctions, pursue dialogue not regime change. get it into your head. iranians are protesting not for eu strategic interests. they’re protesting for their own future. it should be left to them to decide.
madam president, commissioner, the american withdrawal from the middle east, the resurgence of iran as a rogue state and the expansion of local terrorist groups must be addressed to prevent further destabilisation globally. the current lack of stability in the region has been leading to the involvement of syrians, afghans and iranians in the war against ukraine to the benefit of the terrorist state of russia. equally, russia has been worryingly extending its power to harm the european union and its neighbouring countries through the wagner group’s activities in the middle east, as well as in africa. this is something expected to increase with the potential agreement on the usd 17 billion arms contract with algeria. for these reasons, the eu needs to find sustainable solutions, such as strengthening the eu’s role in assuring food supply in the broader mena region during the unprecedented global food crisis.
madam president, commissioner várhelyi, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, security in the middle east is of utmost importance for the security of europe and the entire world actually. i don’t agree with everything we state in the resolution we will vote on tomorrow, but let’s see the positive sides and let’s follow up. with whom? with our strongest ally, the only democracy and rule of law-based state in the middle east – israel. israel has opened historic opportunities with the abraham accords and with its partners there. that’s the one side. the other side is the iranian threat, which is not only contributing to the terrorism of hezbollah and of hamas, and supporting the malicious powers in syria and misusing the syrian soil for proliferation, but is also supporting putin’s russia in its war of aggression, its brutal war crime-oriented aggression, and in its hybrid warfare against the free world, against the political west. so let’s see who are our allies. let’s follow up with our ally in the middle east. let’s contribute from our side for security in the middle east, because this will pay back for our security as well and also for our values.
hopefully the member states did better than us.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, despite the criticism he has received from the far right of this house, which is not here, by the way. they come, they listen, they drop their roll and then they don't stay when they have to stay out of respect for the debates and all the ideologies present here. so, first of all, we are positive about strengthening multilateralism in the region and stability. but as we speak here, something is happening. turkey is bombing rojava, it's bombing civilians who have fought against isis terrorism. while we're here, rights are being violated in palestine. i know this well because i was kidnapped by israel in the international flotilla. the epp members who have just spoken: israel is not a state governed by the rule of law. israel is a state that practices an illegal occupation. we therefore need - and i am addressing the commission - democratic clauses in agreements and full respect for human rights. human rights continue to be violated in the region, in yemen, in palestine and in the gulf. we need clear democratic clauses in these agreements. if not, they won't have our deal.
madam president, the main agents of instability in the so-called middle east are europe and its overgrown colony in north america. since the crusades, people there have every reason to be sick of the sight of us. britain and france built instability into the region when sykes and picot drew its borders. it was britain that planted the seeds of israel’s apartheid regime in palestine – divide and rule, just as they did in ireland – and the west never had any qualms about backing dictators as long as they protected our interests. so how did overthrowing mosaddegh promote stability? was the iran-iraq war good for security? did backing the mujahideen cover us in glory? every so-called western intervention – the occupation of iraq, the disaster of afghanistan, the nato bombing of libya, the backing of islamist extremism in syria, saudi’s genocidal assault on yemen – all produced seismic waves of instability that tremor down for decades, leaving broken countries, hobbled economies, violence, trauma and permanent conflict. and at the end of that, we stroke our chins, pretend we have nothing to do about it and ask how we – we – are going to promote stability in the region. you have got to be joking.
the current asylum crisis leaves no one indifferent. in total, more than 280 000 people have been taken into care in europe this year. two thirds of these are in austria, most of them in the burgenland. so you can imagine the pressure on the population here. accidents in border communities as a result of wild chases by police and smugglers are now commonplace. there's been shootings. soldiers and policemen risk their lives on the border, in the middle of europe. refugees are dying trying to get to austria. i just want to remind you of 2015, when over 70 people were discovered in a truck in parndorf. last year, two more died in similar circumstances in siegendorf. and if you get the smugglers, it's cold-blooded murder overseas before the trial even starts. no wonder many inhabitants of burgenland are now afraid to leave their homes and walk alone on the country road. we must finally get to work here. the only way to do this is to ensure that the eu's external borders are fully protected and that local aid is provided. we are thus laying the foundations for prospects in the countries of departure.
in writing. – the root difficulty in implementing a viable policy on asylum and migration is that we proclaim the values of human rights and solidarity, while not delivering the crucial elements that would make them operational and fair to member states where irregular migration occurs. there has been little progress on relocation and in the fight against people smuggling. this week’s eu action plan for the central mediterranean by the commission illustrates the problem: it has nothing ‘new’ to say about relocation and even less about people smugglers who thrive. yet the document says a lot about search and rescue, admittedly an important topic. however, it must be pointed out that s&r operations, organised by largely unsupervised and unregulated ngos, are increasingly being perceived by electorates in border countries as a pull factor for irregular migration and as allies of people smugglers. such views cannot just be brushed aside until majorities emerge in favour of ‘populist’ policies. voters have noted that rightly, there were no relocation problems with regard to refugees and immigrants from the ukraine. until a real relocation policy is in place, those who stay on the side-lines have little right to throw stones at governments of border states which are left alone to handle dangerous and delicate crises.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, there was some debate whether it is appropriate for me to step in, but well, i congratulate you for concluding your vote on the budget of the european union for the financial year 2023. i note with satisfaction that the european parliament confirmed the agreement reached at the conciliation committee meeting on 14 november. i take this opportunity to thank once again the chair of the committee on budgets, johan van overtveldt, and the rapporteurs nicolae ştefănuță and niclas herbst, as well as all other members of the european parliament who participated in the budgetary procedure for their constructive approach.
thank you very much, minister bek. the joint text agreed by the conciliation committee on 14 november 2022 has now been approved by both parliament and the council. the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2023 can thus be deemed to have been completed. the union’s general budget for the financial year 2023 is definitively adopted and we will now sign the budget, as happens every year. (the president of parliament signed the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2023.)
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. is there any objection? i don't see that. the minutes are approved.
the next item is the debate on a topical and urgent subject (article 162 of the treaty on european union) a truly interconnected internal energy market to keep prices low and businesses competitive (2022/2961 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words in this debate and that no blue cards will be accepted.
author. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, we are discussing here the status of energy and the solutions for the energy crisis. for the epp, a strong internal energy market is one of the solutions. we need to complete our interconnections inside the eu and the links between the eu and neighbouring countries. we really need to look at the interconnections – gas and electricity – that connect the iberian peninsula and france, but also the south and east of europe. we need the floating storage regasification unit involving finland, estonia and latvia. we need a second lng terminal in poland. gas infrastructure reinforcement to increase export capacity from belgium to germany. additional lng terminals in germany. expansion of the capacity of an lng terminal combined with the croatian transmission grid towards slovenia and hungary. expansion of the interconnector for greece and bulgaria. as you can see, it is also a question of investment. we really need to make sure that we are the proper continent to invest, and to invest in energy. our crisis is also a crisis of energy supply, and we solve that by giving better conditions for investment, both for the private sector and also the public sector. and we need fast-track procedures for our projects – both the interconnections, but also the renewable projects. we cannot afford it to take years still to have all the licences for projects to start. that is something that is of utmost importance: to have a speedy way for our projects to start, so investment and the directives and the regulations in place that will allow a speedy start for our projects. second point: if we want a hydrogen society, and i think we all do, as an important vector for europe, we really need to have a plan: a plan for infrastructure, for the production of the clean energy, for the transmission, for the transport of this hydrogen, for the delivery of the hydrogen, and all that to cover europe. it cannot be concentrated only in some regions in the centre of europe. we need to have coverage for all the regions of europe. and again, we need a plan. we need the investment plan. we need a calendar. also for mobility – again to fulfil our fit for 55 – to have supplies for mobility and hydrogen for our mobility between 60 kilometres and 150 kilometres. it is the case for mobility and for hydrogen. we really need the huge investment that we need to plan. so we need to have all these conditions for the private sector and the public sector, and to start immediately. on the question of the energy market, we are of the opinion in the epp that we should intervene as little as possible in the market. we should allow the market to work, and all the intervention should be temporary and very well justified. and we are in certain times where we probably need interference for a short time and temporarily on the market. but having said that, we also need to have more general governance for our energy – a multilevel, multisector level that links the gas market, the electricity market, hydrogen, heating and cooling that also takes into consideration the decentralisation and the digitalisation of the energy system that is going on. we need to connect all that. but that needs to be very well studied and we need to look carefully at the consequences. we look forward to the proposal from the commission on this topic.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, let me begin by thanking the european parliament for the interest it takes on this particular issue and for the contribution to the debate which brought the hemicycle to adopt an important resolution in october. as many of you know, 20 years ago the european energy market was characterised by fragmentation and monopolistic national models. energy import, production, storage, distribution and trade was often in one hand. monopolies charged their prices individually, and sometimes they were unjustifiably high, with direct repercussions on the whole economy. progressively, the eu changed its picture by unbundling monopolies and moving towards market integration. three legislation packages were introduced, followed more recently by the clean energy package. greater integration of the gas and electricity markets produced important benefits in terms of prices and increased security of supply. this year, another factor added complexity to the challenges of setting up an integrated market, respecting the environmental commitments of the union: russia’s war of aggression against ukraine and its dramatic impact on energy markets. the surge in energy prices jeopardised the eu’s economic development already at risk because of the covid—19 pandemic, with severe repercussions for the most vulnerable components of our societies. the eu and its member states reacted to this new situation by seeking solutions to address the current crisis, while at the same time advancing the integration of our energy sectors in the long run. this has been a major objective for the council – one that we share with the commission and the european parliament. a platform for joint purchases has been set up to buy energy from eu trusted partners, and measures to contain energy demand and enhance energy efficiency in consumption were introduced. to act swiftly and effectively, the czech presidency has already convened three extraordinary energy councils in addition to the regular one in october. tomorrow, during the fourth extraordinary energy council, the ministers should agree on legislation that will make the energy platform operational, strengthen solidarity among member states in the field of energy, tame price volatility and speed up deployment of renewables. we are also planning to start discussing the most recent proposal on the market correction mechanism that has been delivered by the commission on request from the october european council. so far, the eu has proved to be able to act swiftly and with a common political vision. however, much remains to be done. as we can read in the latest acer report, national authorities need to fully transpose the electricity directive, defining proper national legal frameworks for new and small players. we also need to act to harmonise the features of the capacity mechanisms and speed up the rollout of smart meters and, lastly, to design new measures for further energy policy integration. let me recall the 2020 eu strategy for energy system integration to optimise and modernise the eu’s energy system as a whole. this strategy links the various energy sectors and carriers for electricity, heat, cold, gas, and solid and liquid fuels with each other and with the end—use sectors, reducing inefficiencies to achieve an optimal use of energy. the crucial moment in this effort will be the proposal to reform the electricity market design announced by the commission for the beginning of next year. let me conclude by saying that, in spite of the current crisis, the eu needs to keep a long—term vision for developing offshore renewable energy, hydrogen, carbon capture and storage, energy research and development. these are key areas to ensure the long—lasting prosperity and development of our societies and respect for the environment. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for inviting me to today’s debate. just yesterday, the commission adopted the emergency temporary intervention proposal. the best way to explain why we need such a proposal is to offer a very frank assessment of where we are in this energy crisis. we are now many months since russia has begun using energy supplies as a weapon. our effort of disengaging from russia as our main gas supplier has worked better than we expected. we have replaced entirely the gas no longer delivered from russia with lng or additional pipeline gas from reliable sources. diversification, demand reduction, a common storage policy and our repowereu actions are making a difference. we are in a broadly adequate security of supply situation for this winter. but this is coming at a cost. prices remain high. yesterday’s proposal therefore is an intervention to protect the eu markets against significant price spikes. several member states in the energy council called on us to present a legal proposal on a price correction mechanism as swiftly as possible. yesterday, that proposal came to life. we turned the elements we set out in article 23 of the october proposal into a self-standing legal initiative. the proposed market correction mechanism combines static and dynamic elements: we set a maximum upper ceiling to the value of the month-ahead ttf, that we propose to set at eur 275, and we set a minimum divergence of the ttf prices from the lng prices in europe at eur 58. both thresholds need to be met for a certain period of time. i believe the trigger levels we propose are high enough to minimise risks, and they are consistent with our intention to have an instrument that deters episodes of very high price spikes. but, of course, many argue that we are creating an instrument outside the classic market economy toolbox. we have always recognised the risks this entails, and their importance. that’s why in the proposal we follow closely all the safeguards that we have listed in our october proposal and are repeated in the european council conclusions. gas demand reduction across the union is an integral part of our approach to reduce risks. moving on, i would also like to touch on permitting today. as you know, the commission has also been working to address the short—term bottlenecks of the energy transition and to speed up the permitting process. on 9 november the commission adopted a regulation to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy. the proposal simply includes the least controversial parts of the repowereu that can lead to a meaningful acceleration of renewable power generation. this regulation is therefore aimed to act as a bridge until the renewable energy directive is agreed by the co—legislators and implemented in the national legal systems. forward—looking proposals such as these on permitting and market correction must be matched by other efforts to create safe, secure infrastructure across the eu. a decade into implementing our european infrastructure policy, member states’ energy grids are now better interconnected thanks to projects of common interest in gas and electricity. in electricity, key interconnectors ended member states’ isolation, strengthening their grids and allowing for the expected scale-up in offshore and onshore renewables. in the south-west of europe, the biscay bay project will connect the iberia peninsula and france. in the northern seas region, the celtic interconnector will provide a first connection between ireland with the rest of the eu. the north sea wind power hub will help develop hybrid offshore wind capacity and related offshore and onshore infrastructure. in the baltic sea region, the commissioning of electricity interconnections between the baltic region and its european neighbours and in particular finland, sweden and poland has already allowed ending the isolation of the baltic region and the coupling of the baltic and nordic electricity markets. the synchronisation of the electricity grids of baltic states, with financing of over eur 1.2 billion from the eu remains the priority. let us also not forget the interconnectors between malta and italy and the euroasia interconnector which links cyprus with the rest of europe. these are all important projects that will enhance the security of supply. in gas, only this year, key diversification projects like the gas interconnection between poland and lithuania, the poland-slovakia interconnector, the baltic pipe between poland and denmark and norway and the greece-bulgaria pipeline will be adding significant gas transmission capacity. all these projects combined simply mean that we are better prepared for any possible disruption, and member states can rely on each other to enhance the security of supply. honourable members, this is the broad overview from my side. i am looking forward to the debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have brought the issue of a single internal energy market to the agenda today because we believe that what we have so far is not enough to make our member states collectively stronger, more resilient to the challenges we have seen in recent months. this means that what we started in europe in the 1990s, what we called the internal energy market, is in fact an incomplete internal market, because it is still the member states who are responsible for building crossborder interconnectors. even if they are necessary, member states cannot build certain links; even though the european commission grants up to 70% for such important links for the whole system, member states may decide not to build. and this cannot work in the long term, and that is why we need more full throttle in the single market, we need more pressure to really put the whole at the centre and not individual interests. the second argument: i believe - and it has already become clear, madam commissioner, that we need more leadership from you - that a european internal energy market can save up to 300 billion euros over the next ten years, because we are relying on synergies between the member states. this will be important because if we do not act with the member states, we urgently need more european initiative from the european commission. it's not easy. but if we try together, i think we have a chance. so i'm glad we can talk about it today.
the aim of this commission communication should be very clear, namely to keep the costs for european citizens acceptable, to keep them affordable and to enable european union firms to get through this winter and produce something. the main measure which is the safety net or the triggering of the safety mechanism is only done if the ttf prices for two weeks will have an increase of more than eur 275 and thus cumulatively if the lng price for 10 days against the reference price has an increase of more than eur 58. commissioner, either the speculators wrote this question, idea, or it's a typo. because if it's with "and" as we understand it, if it's 1,000 euros for gas and only 57 euros for the increase in the law, it stays that way, we don't have a safety net. you probably have to take this matter as a very serious warning. there can be no safeguards that are not put in place or can never be put in place. on the other hand, if it's an emergency, who put january 1st? december 1st is in two weeks; doesn't winter begin? or maybe in brussels it gets cold after 1 january, but throughout the european union winter starts on 1 december. and this issue shows that we will not and cannot achieve our goal of people having affordable bills, businesses being able to survive, bakers making bread. today, as we speak, hundreds and hundreds and thousands of businesses in the european union are closing their doors and hundreds of thousands of people are losing their jobs. these are not safety measures and they are not emergency measures. and i ask you to convey to mrs ursula von der leyen that these corrective measures must be taken immediately and that we have measures that can be put in place now, before it is too late.
for the renew group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. the energy crisis in which we find ourselves shows with all the desirable clarity how much we need a genuine internal energy market, precisely in order to reduce our dependence and increase our energy security. and europe is already perhaps the largest interconnected market today, with more than 400 interconnectors. but the member states have much more to do to reach the 70% target which we agreed jointly during the last term of office. i would remind you that we adopted the electricity market regulation during the last term of office, with the ambition that 70 per cent of existing capacity should be used for the exchange of energy across borders. and that's a long way from where we're supposed to be. i would remind you that the european energy agency, acer, which we also decided to strengthen in the last mandate, would like to have the muscle to enforce this objective. and their reports show with all the desirable clarity that the member states are reluctant to open up the frontiers of electricity exchange. and that's not good. we need more enforcement of the rules we have already adopted. apart from the obvious need to invest large sums of money in order to get more interconnectors, etc. it says we can only do this together. we need to increase cooperation and increase cooperation across borders to achieve a single market. we need to have more offshore energy, as the commissioner also says. we must get this through the permitting process, because all of this will lead to lower prices and greater security and, therefore, to the integration of renewable energy. it's just a matter of getting started.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the energy crisis is pushing millions into energy poverty around europe. and instead of writing blank checks to energy companies that are making billions out of this crisis, we need to help the most vulnerable. more targeted social support is needed for those who are suffering in this crisis. and on top of this, there’s so much we can do to smooth out the price volatility and protect people from price shocks. our first response during this crisis should be to increase the connectivity between the energy markets. i know it’s not rocket science. you know, commissioner, it is very challenging, though, to do this. and we need a truly interconnected energy market in europe. and this can deliver cheaper electricity prices. it can help increase the amount of renewables on the grid. and it can increase and support better welfare for all. and that’s what the experts at acer are telling us. so in practice, this means building huge interconnectors between our national energy grids and increasing cross-border energy trade. and in 2021, this trade delivered eur 34 billion in benefits. so with more interconnectors, we could see solar energy from spain powering the energy grid in ireland. we could see wind energy from ireland powering homes in france. we can see geothermal energy from central europe helping everyone in the entire european union. so an integrated union increases competition between providers. it lowers energy bills and allow us and allows us to transition to a renewables based economy. it smoothens out the price volatility and leaves us less vulnerable to price shocks. so we need a truly integrated energy union to protect consumers and the vulnerable.
madam president, this is such an upsetting and disturbing debate when the president of this parliament has to come in and say, ‘stop killing women’. and yet this is the reality, as we’ve heard from the personal stories here. why do we allow it to continue? because we are in the midst of a shadow pandemic where domestic violence, sexual assault and fgm are commonplace in all our societies across europe. we absolutely have to have a unified and comprehensive response, just like we did with the covid crisis. some 850 000 women’s lives are lost every 10 years. cities the size of marseille, amsterdam or zagreb disappear from this earth. just imagine that. just think about those cities disappearing. that’s the number of women that are murdered every 10 years, that die. the council has to think about this, they have to take action. if the member states had ratified the istanbul convention 10 years ago, think about how many lives could have been saved. some of you will remember ashling murphy, a young irish woman who was out jogging. she was brutally murdered in broad daylight in january of this year. she represents the thousands of victims we’re speaking about here this morning. as co-rapporteur on the directive on violence against women, i am working to ensure women with you across the union are fully protected, working with my colleague evin incir. this will protect many, many women. we have to do this. we need male champions. we desperately need male champions to eliminate violence against women, to work with us, as this is a human rights issue. as international day for the elimination of violence against women is marked this week, i am calling on all political leaders, all in society, to fight for protection for women like ashley and the millions of victims of violence against women that she represents.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. you're working off ukraine as the most corrupt country in the world. we could be a step ahead in the fight against this corruption if we did not have russia, the most criminal state in europe, here to wage its war against ukraine. today we have with a huge majority labelled russia as what it is: a state sponsor of terrorism and a state that uses means of terrorism. we have illustrated in detail the amount of destruction and suffering that this inhuman, criminal regime has caused and continues to inflict on its peaceful neighbor and its innocent citizens. that is why, as standing rapporteur on ukraine, i am deeply grateful to all eu institutions and member states that we continue to stand firm in our financial support. and i wouldn't like to forget all those other bodies and civil society that are firmly supporting ukraine, financially. 18 billion that's 1.5 billion a month is only part of the dire needs to keep the country running, to pay the salaries and so on. and i think - and that has been alluded to by my colleague van overtveldt - given the amount of money and given war-related problems in the amount of transparency and all that, it requires a better role for the parliament. we need to set up a working group together with the commission from the budget committee and foreign affairs to supervise and to accompany the payments of what is going to ukraine. so that is my suggestion to the commission: to accept this idea, to involve us closely as a parliament in administering this huge amount of money. i'm going to the hospital.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear minister, dear colleagues, the war in ukraine cannot be won and people’s lives cannot be saved without european support and commitment. this implies providing ukrainians with the necessary resources to protect their population, resist during the winter, keep schools open, help the reconstruction, and maintain the activity of their public services and institutions. that is why the european parliament is in favour of the proposal of the commission for a support package for ukraine of up to eur 18 billion through concessional loans to be repaid in the course of maximum 35 years, starting in 2033. in a further expression of solidarity, the eu will cover the interest—rate costs, and of course member states can also contribute with additional funds. this instrument will imply reforms to help ukraine advance on its european path. but also, of course, we have to mention anti-corruption and judicial reforms, respect for the rule of law, good governance and modernisation of the national and local institutions. i also hope that eu minorities’ rights will also be included there, in particular referring to romanian minorities. ukraine is fighting for its freedom and its independence, but is also fighting for our values. this is why we need to show solidarity and approve this proposal and of course make sure that reforms are put into place.
madam president, commissioner, minister, dear colleagues, who may deny that our excellent decision – i mean to call on russia as a state—sponsor of terrorism. our it systems are down. i think it’s a very clear message. moscow is watching us, following and making some conclusions. good luck for you. you will be down, not us. today, colleagues, more than ever, ukraine is facing a greater need for extensive support from its partners. russia’s war of aggression is destroying ukraine’s economy and pushing its population into energy and social poverty, terrorising its people, with more than 25% being internally displaced and 7 million fleeing abroad. ukraine has mobilised all its financial resources to fight for its survival and the protection of its population. i congratulate the european union and its member states, as well as the outstanding commitment of civil society to help ukraine through this difficult time. we must realise that by supporting ukraine and its people we are reaffirming the meaning of european solidarity. slava ukraini!
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union, the member states and the european financial institutions have so far provided support worth eur 19.7 billion following the outbreak of the war in ukraine. the new instrument will now provide for an additional €18 billion. i think it is right to support ukraine, of course, but i think it is equally important to keep a strict eye on how this money is spent and by whom. at this time of objective difficulties in the ukrainian government's handling of internal problems, there is a risk that some of this aid may be intercepted by organisations or individuals whose purpose is different from the exclusive and proper support to the ukrainian people affected by the catastrophe of war. this new instrument allows for less detailed political conditions and disbursement arrangements, and for a worryingly smaller role for parliament in its budgetary control function. but are we sure that the european institutions have the means to effectively monitor this funding? are we sure that we are not running the risk that this new instrument is just the first in a long series of loans? i hope that this aid will serve as a lever to finally bring about peace and put an end to a war which has devastated ukraine and seriously damaged the whole of europe.
madam president, this debate is not about money. it’s not about eur 18 billion. it’s not about usd 350 billion. this debate is about our humanity, mr commissioner. it’s about our responsibility. it’s about history. because history will judge us, just like history judged those who decided to fight against hitler. i can’t see many differences between putin and hitler. i just came back from izium in ukraine. i could see graves – holes, actually – where over 400 bodies were found. it’s completely different when you smelled the air there. when you see these holes. when you talk to the people who are starving to death. so i would like to encourage you, if you feel strong enough, to visit ukraine and see izium, bucha, mariupol and other places. because it’s worth to go and see. because history will judge us. so remember, it’s not about money. it’s not about euros. it’s about our humanity.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. hungary strongly condemns the russian aggression. we stand for the independence and territorial integrity of ukraine. we're helping the ukrainians. under the hungarian humanitarian aid programme, we have taken in one million war refugees and spent huf 31 billion in support of ukraine. our position is a principled one: we do not support any new eu common credit enhancement and therefore we do not accept that the eu finances ukraine from common credit enhancement. in 2020, we have only accepted the joint borrowing as a one-off and extraordinary exception, without precedent, at the request of the mediterranean countries. we have tragic experiences. first the communists put hungary in debt, and after 2002, the leftist governments put us in debt again. we do not want to put our children's future in debt, we do not want the eu to become a debt community. the common european future is not a common debt. hungary is ready to help rebuild ukraine on the basis of the bilateral agreement with the ukrainians, to provide the money that falls on us from the national budget.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to proclaim solidarity or preach it. we need concrete action to express the solidarity referred to by schuman, the solidarity of truth, the solidarity which we must put into practice. and so what i have to say here is that we have done it with these concrete actions and this quick, urgent approval, to enable ukraine to use 18 billion euros in terms of loans granted by the european union, for the budget guarantee. but i would ask the council not to have any doubts, not to accept that leaders in the council use ukraine, and sometimes even deceive it, when they accept its accession as a candidate country, and then start saying that there are not the best conditions or there are no conditions to be able to accept it. leaders who do not have the name of leaders, and who should have the name of rulers, because, at bottom, what they have is fear of losing the agricultural funds and the cohesion funds. i also hope that the blackmail of unanimity on ukraine will not be used to gain ground on other issues, such as the rule of law. it will be unacceptable in the council to use the unanimity rule which is necessary to blackmail on other dossiers.
mr president, commissioner and minister, i'm sorry to hear that. we are debating a country that is a candidate for the european union. as minister bek was kind enough to say, we are debating a country that defends itself, defends itself with extraordinary courage and it should be very clearly emphasized. we have three areas of financial aid that we need to talk about. the first is the functioning of the state. after all, ukraine must provide healthcare, it must provide education, it must provide the functioning of the basic state apparatus, and it must also ensure the efficiency of the infrastructure in general use. the second area is the repair of war damage, especially critical infrastructure. and then we'll talk about the rebuilding plan. we have the following dilemma, in my opinion namely the question: what can be done with 18 billion euros, we will do it and that's it, and we are not interested in much more or if we want to win this war together with ukraine this is the question: or should we accumulate these funds, support more intensively in order to end earlier? so we have a strategy that we can implement: systematically allocate one and a half billion euros a month or accumulate funds, help ukraine, end this war faster. let's remember that the ultimate goal is to minimize the damage, to liberate ukraine, not to control every euro.
mr. president, when we help ukraine, we're actually helping ourselves. perhaps from holland or austria the war seems a little far away. maybe some politicians don't see things as they are, that in fact the war is on our border, on the border of the united europe, and there is no european citizen who does not feel the effects of putin's energy blackmail in his pocket or who has never felt his fake news campaigns, whether they are citizens of the netherlands or austria, or whether they are citizens of romania. just getting through the winter is not enough and can't be enough. russia is a terrorist state. we just voted this thing. we can no longer allow exceptions to sanctions that put us in the position of doing business with this terrorist state. we can no longer have friendly governments or even lobbying here in the european parliament for a terrorist state. the aid to ukraine and the future reconstruction of this country, a candidate for membership and now protecting the borders of europe, must come from the money of the oligarchs and must come from the money of putin.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! ukraine needs our support for many reasons: as a neighbour, a victim of aggression and a partner that should become a member of the european union in the near future. the war russia has unleashed has generated enormous economic costs that we all feel. but it is the victim of this barbaric aggression who suffers the most. we cannot allow putin's plan to succeed and leave the country economically ruined and politically unstable on our borders. we should continue to be an arsenal of democracy and peace by supporting the functioning of ukraine's public institutions, which are facing a growing humanitarian crisis. russia is deliberately destroying and vandalizing infrastructure, schools and hospitals, hoping that another wave of refugees will weaken our resolve. financial support for kiev will be the best proof that such a scenario will never become a reality.
mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, let me start by saying that the brave ukrainian men, women and children are the victims of this brutal war waged by president putin. the number of people killed, the millions of women and children fleeing and the level of destruction in the country are devastating. as the cold winter season has now started, many are left in the cold, including many children. that is why it’s important that we as the eu give this financial support to ukraine. we must help rebuild ukraine. the dutch government proposed to see whether it can adopt the city of kherson; how great it would be if every eu member state adopted one city, town or region of ukraine. step by step, europe would be rebuilding ukraine. war has been raging for nine months now. i want to make one thing clear by quoting the first verse of the ukrainian anthem: ‘ukraine has not yet perished, nor her glory, nor her freedom’. nor will it perish, because our common values of freedom and democracy are stronger than any despicable act of aggression by russia. ukraine, europe is with you until this end of this war, and europe will be with you once the war will be over.
a uachtaráin, despite recent victories in kherson, ukrainians are facing a bleak and bitterly cold winter. russia is hammering ukraine with missile fire, targeting critical infrastructure with one of its heaviest waves of attacks since putin launched his brutal invasion nearly nine months ago. we in the eu are providing financial, military and humanitarian support to ukraine. but it is also ukraine that is supporting us. we see the tremendous resilience and bravery of the ukrainian people as they fight every day to defend our shared european values. it is for this reason that i welcome the commission’s proposal for an 18—billion—euro ukraine support package for 2023. it is essential that we streamline our financial assistance to ukraine and ensure that we are providing the economic support needed in an effective and responsive manner. the next months and years are unpredictable and i welcome the flexibility this proposal provides. we must do everything we can to support ukraine. slava ukraini!
mr president, commissioner, the presidency of the council! ukraine was forced into a terrible war on the orders of vladimir putin. the damage is catastrophic. the suffering of the population increases with each day of the onset of winter. a political-diplomatic solution and an end to the war is not in sight. against this background, it is perfectly clear that the left group in the european parliament will stand with the people and will not oppose the allocation of 18 billion euros to help the people. why is this not real aid but a series of loans with interest that will add up to a huge mountain of debt that is hardly repayable? and does the money actually end up with the people it's meant for? in peacetime we have defined precise criteria for the granting of macrofinancial assistance. my group has always insisted explicitly on social and democratic progress and the rule of law, including the protection of trade unions and labour rights. the commission is now prepared to support these principles in this way with this new package. is there regular parliamentary scrutiny of these standards? especially with the perspective of ukraine's eu candidate status: the war must not be used as a reason why the selensky government is already cutting trade union rights and other rights of workers and companies, journalism must not be intimidated, and even in an emergency, opposition parties must not simply be banned. remind the partners in kiev of that.
(start of speech off mic) shrank by 35%. it is running a budget deficit of about 4 to 5 billion per month. so we do welcome this mfa+ to try and ensure that the very state and the functions of the state of ukraine survive during this particular war. this particular fund will assist in keeping hospitals going, keeping the infrastructure going, paying basic salaries. but let us be very clear: ukraine is on financial life support and we will need an awful lot more in the short and medium term to ensure that the state itself can function while it is fighting the war against russia. there is no doubt: we all want to see an outcome that is peaceful, that there is a settlement. but until such time as russia withdraws from ukrainian territory, accepts the integrity of ukraine as a country, well then we will have a situation where the war will continue. and europe has to support ukraine in every way it can, both in terms of the immediate financial package that’s here before us, but also into the medium term and the longer term with regard to construction. we have to say confidently that we will stand with ukraine for as long as it takes for russia to withdraw and for us to rebuild ukraine.
mr president, billions in eu assistance going to ukraine are not free; they are loans which ukraine will default on, and they come with neoliberal strings attached. if you listen to the economists, ukraine is marked for a nightmare round of shock therapy, a sell off of public land, deregulation of labour, sale of public assets, and on it goes. the country’s future is being sold to finance a proxy war that’s tearing it apart. of course, the loans have preconditions that ukraine must uphold democracy and rule of law, but since the tap was turned on, zelenskyy has banned most opposition parties, shut out the media, printed kill lists of dissidents, and attacked trade unions and workers’ rights. yet, the billions keep flowing. our court of auditors has said that this is a country accused of grand corruption, and on it goes, while the eu policy seems designed to prevent peace and keep the war going at all costs, as long as ordinary people pay. between russian tanks and european banks, there will be little left of ukraine when this is over. don’t forget: war is a racket, and there’s going to be hell to pay for this one.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, let me start by thanking you for this opportunity to discuss such an important topic ahead of a very crucial conference for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity for the next decade and beyond. as you very well know, the race to protect the natural world and its biodiversity reaches a critical milestone this december. the upcoming cop in montreal is extremely timely. we are now living in an age of extinction, with biodiversity loss ranked as one of the biggest threats facing humanity. the intergovernmental science-policy platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services showed that, unless action is taken, around 1 million species are threatened with extinction. we are thankful to the european parliament for consistently supporting stronger measures for biodiversity protection. biodiversity and climate change are inseparably linked and need to be addressed together. we must step up our efforts to limit global warming to below two degrees and mitigate climate change, as well as to develop strategies and set targets to halt biodiversity loss. the council expects the following at the upcoming cop15: the parties will adopt an ambitious and comprehensive framework, which is matched by the resources needed for its implementation; clear and measurable targets to address overexploitation, pollution, fragmentation and unsustainable agricultural practices; a plan that safeguards the rights of indigenous peoples and recognises their contributions as stewards of nature; finance for biodiversity, and the alignment of financial flows with nature to drive finances towards sustainable investment. just a month ago, the council adopted conclusions setting the general political framework of the eu negotiating position. in these conclusions, the council stressed the need to include in the global biodiversity framework: the effective conservation of at least 30% of global land and at least 30% of oceans; the restoration of 3 billion hectares of degraded land and freshwater ecosystems and 3 billion hectares of ocean ecosystems; the elimination of all illegal, unsustainable or unsafe harvest, trade and use of wild species; the halting of human induced extinctions of known threatened species; the harnessing of the full potential of nature-based solutions; the reduction of the levels and risk of pollution from all sources; the prevention of the introduction and establishment of all priority invasive alien species; the implementation of practices for the sustainable use of biodiversity, and the need to address land and sea use change negatively affecting biodiversity in all ecosystems. as you can see, the list of actions is long and the task ahead challenging. let me assure you about the presidency’s commitment and determination, together with the commission and the member states, to make cop15 a success.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, the un biodiversity cop – cop 15 – is almost upon us. a successful cop, one that adopts an ambitious post—2020 global biodiversity framework, is a key priority for the commission and for me personally. protecting the health of people and the planet are central elements of the european green deal, and we must reverse the trend of biodiversity loss and we must do this urgently. one million species are at risk of extinction. we need nature for food security, disaster risk reduction, sustainable jobs, poverty, education and health. we need a framework that credibly addresses the biodiversity crisis. and let me remind you, we will never solve the climate crisis if we do not help nature, our best ally, offering us so many nature—based solutions. the finishing line is approaching and a huge number of issues are still to be resolved. there are large divides on key issues. last week in sharm el sheikh i had several meetings with ministers, including a high—level event organised by china and canada. many of the discussions at cop 27 were important stepping stones towards cop 15. they reaffirmed the importance of tackling the nature crisis. cop 27 confirmed loud and clear that there is no way to limit global warming to 1.5ºc without taking action to protect and restore nature, including a first—ever mention in the cover text of tipping points and nature—based solutions. as i’m sure you recall, we have several key priorities for the post—2020 global biodiversity framework. let me start with targets to ensure sustainable use of biodiversity. we need strong targets to eradicate illegal, unsustainable and unsafe exploitation of species, targets to ensure that all areas under agriculture, forestry and fisheries are managed sustainably. integrating biodiversity across policies and sector is a key priority for europe. we also need ambitious targets to address the direct drivers of loss, not only for the sake of nature, but also for sustainable livelihoods and poverty eradication. this is because pollution is also a health issue. invasive alien species threaten food security, and so on. we need nature for so many different reasons. we need to restore 3 billion hectares of terrestrial and 3 billion hectares of marine ecosystems. this corresponds to roughly 30% of degraded terrestrial ecosystems and 10% of degraded marine ecosystems. this target is best expressed in hectares because parties have diverging views on how many areas are degraded. the 3 + 3 billion hectares may seem ambitious, but let us keep in mind that this target focuses on bringing areas under restoration and not about completed restoration. we need to protect 30% of land and oceans – the 30 by 30 target. in our engagement with other parties, we should underline that protection goes well together with economic activities that don’t jeopardise the conservation objectives. moreover, the target can be achieved by establishing protected areas and other effective conservation measures if they offer the same level of protection. and these other measures can, for example, be land—managed by indigenous people. this creates flexibility for implementation. similarly, not all marine protected areas have to be no—take zones, or not all the time. some fisheries activities are compatible with conservation objectives. when we implement this target, it will be crucial to respect and safeguard the rights of indigenous peoples and local communities. they are essential stewards of biodiversity. we are aware that some of them fear being expelled from their lands and indeed there have been terrible examples of this in the past. but the 30—by—30 target can and must be achieved while safeguarding the rights. in fact, we expect the 30—by—30 target to bring them significant benefits. lastly, 30—by—30 target should focus not only on protecting a percentage of lands and oceans, but also on qualitative aspects. we must protect the areas most important for biodiversity and ecosystem services. we also need to ensure effective management and connectivity. we do not want paper parks. but we also have other priorities which are equally important. we must ensure solid biodiversity outcomes by the middle of the century. that includes halting human—induced extinction, increasing ecological integrity and connectivity, and increasing the area of natural ecosystems by 20%. we need a significant reduction of our ecological footprint by 2030 to bring it within planetary boundaries by 2050. we want clear and operational provisions on financing of implementation. this is absolutely essential and without it, there will be simply no agreement. we must align all financial flows with biodiversity objectives and eliminate or repurpose harmful subsidies. the ecb estimates that those subsidies are around usd 800 billion. for each dollar that we spend on biodiversity funding, we currently spend 8 dollars harming biodiversity. it will not be possible to achieve our goals when taking one step forward, we then take eight steps back. we need to mobilise resources from all sources. that starts with domestic sources and we need to involve the private sector. however, we also know that a significant increase of international public biodiversity financing will be needed. president von der leyen has pledged a doubling of our international biodiversity funding to eur 7 billion over the period of 2021—2027. this money is targeted primarily at the most vulnerable countries. germany and france have pledged similar increases. and let me underline we need all eu member states, as well as other public and private donors, to contribute. in addition, we are fully committed to the third objective of the convention on biological diversity on access and benefit—sharing. we constructively engage in the discussions on this matter and are ready to contribute to a positive solution. and we should not repeat the mistakes we found with the aichi framework. the global biodiversity framework will only make a difference if it includes both a strong monitoring framework and much stronger mechanisms for review of implementation. and this should include a regular reviewing cycle. all parties should report national targets within one year from cop 15 as a basis for a global analysis of collective ambition. and this is kind of global gap report to see where the collective ambition stands. all parties should use the same headline indicators so we can measure collective progress. national reports and scientific evidence would feed into a stocktake, and this would assess progress towards the global goals and targets based on an assessment of national reports and the relevant scientific evidence. and this stocktake should be followed by a transparent process during which parties indicate where they step up ambitions or implementations. this monitoring framework should be adopted at cop 15, together with the first set of indicators. we cannot postpone this if we want the parties to start reporting and it is not necessary to postpone this. there has been good progress on identifying the indicators. of course, the work will continue towards cop 16, where additional indicators should be adopted. our policies will not succeed without sound science. the eu provides funding for a significant research programme on nature and nature—based solutions. we are also putting in place a global knowledge centre for biodiversity, a science service for all to be launched at cop 15. this knowledge centre aims to help developing countries to build capacity for monitoring and reporting and to make data collection easier. the eu and member states’ preparations are in full swing. in october, the council adopted conclusions setting out the key elements of our positions. the details are being finalised and i am really grateful to the czech presidency for the effective steering of our preparations. dear members of the parliament, i am also very happy that a sizeable delegation from the parliament will join the eu delegation in montreal because your support will be very welcome, and i look forward to meeting you there and to staying in close touch with you during the negotiations. thank you for your attention.
for the ppe group. mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, our fate is inextricably linked to the fate of the rest of nature. the intergovernmental panel on biological diversity and ecosystem services warned in 2019 that the loss of nature is accelerating at an unprecedented rate, with serious impacts on the quality of life on earth, and that one million species face extinction. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the forthcoming negotiations take place and be a success. his goal is to adopt a new plan to save life on earth. and this latest plan contains four long-term goals for 2050 and 22 targets already for 2030. the four goals focus on the conservation, sustainable use and enhancement of biodiversity, such as protected areas, reducing pollution, ensuring sustainable food production and phasing out billions of dollars in public subsidies where they harm nature. some also propose that the paris agreement should be the ultimate goal of maintaining 1.5°c. i consider this to be one of the possible objectives, but i think it could be complemented by, for example, an assessment of the overall state of biodiversity or the global extinction rate, i.e. setting other objectives. another topic that should be addressed by the negotiators at cop 15 is the digital storage of genetic sequence information. and the issue should also be how to mobilise resources, in other words how to finance activities related to the implementation of the global framework. egypt's misunderstanding between key countries should not be repeated. i hope the cop is successful.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr commissioner, after the disappointing cop27 summit, the focus is now on cop15. let's hope we do a little better. i believe we may be facing a historic moment if we turn this summit into a "paris" for nature. and the reason is clear. the biodiversity crisis is a planetary emergency. and none of the goals of the paris summit, on global warming, can be achieved if we are not able to restore our natural sinks. as has been said, a million species face extinction. they're in danger of extinction. more than 40 percent of the population is already affected in their health, in their economic development, in their food, by the deterioration of the planet. and we must therefore act with ambition. 2030: 30% of our territory protected. but to do that, as you said, we need clear monitoring, effective evaluation, rigorous monitoring and we need to mobilise resources. all the sources of resources. but please, we have to eliminate the incentives that are detrimental to biodiversity, by reducing them by at least 500 billion a year. i hope to see you at the summit and i think the presentation of the nature restoration bill is a good cover letter from the european union at this summit.
mr president, thank you to all my colleagues, to the commissioner and to the minister for all these warm words about the importance of biodiversity and protection of our biodiversity. but people, colleagues, we are not here only in words, we really need to act on it. there it quite often goes wrong, to be very honest. for example, we need to make sure we have our house in order on the protection of biodiversity and to halt the loss of biodiversity, which we promised for 2010, which we promised for 2020, and which we are probably now promising for 2030. we are still losing biodiversity on a daily basis. that’s what is at stake at this cop. we should also learn then from what happened in sharm el sheikh. you said that you were there, so you also know that the only way for success if it’s europe not only pushing for ambition, but also reaching out to the hand of developing countries, because they are suffering the most, most of the time from western companies encroaching on their biodiversity. we need to make sure that we are not only helping them financially, but that we are also making sure that there is a fair mechanism for the sharing of the benefits of digital sequence information. these are the things that need to be tackled, and i maybe also look at the council. the good words are there, but really, if i look at the mandate of the council, it needs to be improved. don’t do it on the last day, as you did in sharm el sheikh.
mr president, in the new cap strategic plan regulation, the production of public goods is now recognised as an agricultural activity. now you can get paid for producing not just meat, dairy, grains and greens, but also butterflies, bees, bugs, clean water and carbon sequestration. when it comes to funding for biodiversity, cap offers many opportunities. but are they being taken? i don’t think they are, because the old idea still persists that producing bugs, butterflies, doing something for carbon sequestration isn’t real and producing beef is real. in ireland’s cap strategic plan, we proved that even though you don’t have to have a stocking rate, our country is insisting that you do. the reason why is that they still don’t believe it’s as important to produce biodiversity as it is to produce meat.
mr president, colleagues, in irish mythology, the wild irish salmon was an ancient symbol of knowledge and wisdom. unfortunately, its wisdom has not been enough to save it from people. latest figures show irish atlantic salmon populations are in dire condition due to overfishing, ocean warming and the destruction of our rivers. the stark reality is that we have lost 70% of all wildlife since 1970. so since my childhood, we are witnessing a complete ecological breakdown. so it’s high time to act. we need urgent leadership at the cop15 conference in montreal in december. we need a global ocean treaty; marine protected areas to cover a third of the world’s seas, and an ambitious restoration law backed by all eu governments. this is our last chance. otherwise, in a few years from now, many creatures, such as the wild irish salmon, will be nothing but the stuff of legend.
mr president, as the un secretary-general, antónio guterres, has said, the world is on a highway to climate hell and with its foot firmly on the gas. despite the many ongoing efforts, global biodiversity continues to decline, with several targets set in the strategic plan for biodiversity 2010-2020 not being met, and the scenario is more than certain to worsen in the coming years. time is running out and eyes will once again be on the policymakers in december in montreal at the next cop15. similar to what we have achieved, tangentially, at cop27, it is essential that we be bold and ensure the effective protection of the land and the oceans, where i hope that brazil, with lula da silva, can once again be an essential partner for the preservation of the amazon. sustainable use of resources and equitable sharing of benefits and costs, with the key being to involve frontline communities, who depend on and are in tune with their ecosystems, and to accept their demands and concerns. go beyond the protection of ecosystems and also make progress on their restoration, fulfilling goal two of the existing preliminary agreement and finally ensuring the adoption of an action agreement. cop15 must serve to conclude the ongoing negotiations and adopt a new inclusive post-2020 framework. humanity would not understand if we failed those goals and that's why we must fight.
mr president, at cop15 in montreal we will hopefully come up with a global agreement to effectively protect at least 30% of global land and oceans. some people find this a bit too much. how can we ever allow nature to thrive in 30% of the planet? well, there’s a simple answer: it’s called de-growth. economic growth contributes to biodiversity loss, but doesn’t necessarily contribute to our well-being. if we got smart about it, we’d be able to drastically reduce resource use and lift a massive amount of pressure off the planet. de-growth is nothing to be scared of unless you’re a billionaire capitalist engaged in an economic activity that has no social benefit. it’s about de-scaling unnecessary production and consumption in a way that actually increases our well-being and enhances ecological conditions. in such an unequal world, surely this is something that we should all want. capitalism is based on perpetual growth, and capitalism has done untold damage to the planet. how long more before we realise that we cannot fix the climate crisis with capitalism?
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the love of a family knows no borders. in her state of the union address in 2020, our commission president, ursula von der leyen, affirmed to us all: if you are a parent in one country, you are a parent in every country. but sadly, the freedom of movement of rainbow families is not guaranteed. it is a time now that the commission and the council act to ensure the legal protection for rainbow families exercising their fundamental right to free movement, and that the baby sara judgment is implemented. any member state that infringes on the values of human dignity, human rights, freedom and equality should be held accountable. in my own member state of ireland, despite the legalisation of same—sex marriage in 2015, rainbow families still face a variety of struggles, especially concerning the legal parenthood of children. the choice of donors affects same sex parents’ legal relationship to their children. in particular, the system leaves gay men and our trans—community and others having children in legal limbo. every child deserves to have their parents’ name on their birth certificate, and as my colleague marc angel shared, no child deserves to be stateless. in striving to build a union of equality, let us make sure that all rainbow families can enjoy the rights that every other family in the eu holds dear.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu is the world's largest aid donor, but with today's policies, both climate goals and global sustainability goals are out of reach. at the same time, crises are piling up: war in europe, floods in pakistan and famine in the horn of africa. it is important that this parliament should take a stand on an ambitious aid policy. we understand that more needs to be done. at the same time, we have a government in sweden that makes castle deals disconnected from reality. when the world is on fire, they choose to strangle swedish aid. it's a government that's failed its sustainability goals, failed its climate, failed its election promises, and now it's failed the world. i am glad that the eu is taking a different path. we will continue to stand for solidarity, to develop and make aid more effective.
mr president, i think one of the major problems in this space is that almost nobody in international development understands finance, and very few people in international finance understand development. so there’s a major knowledge gap, there’s a cultural gap, i would say. and we have to work very hard to address the scepticism. i think people have mentioned already the european court of auditors’ assessment of efsd+, which was very negative, and academic papers that were presented to the development committee, which were very negative on efsd+. so i welcome the focus of this resolution, but i really think we need to have a debate on global gateway, because it’s central to everything we’re doing around the financial architecture for development. it is supposedly a bolt—on to ndici, and yet it has none of the safeguards of ndici in terms of transparency and parliamentary oversight. and we were also presented, when we had a public consultation on the european financial architecture for development, was that either we set up a european development bank or we expanded the mandate of the existing ones. and ebrd has failed to expand its mandate to sub-saharan africa. i understand the reasons why, but it needs to happen at its next annual meeting in 2023.
mr president, poverty is not a natural phenomenon that can be fixed with aid. poverty is a historical and political problem. poor countries are poor because of the history of european colonialism and because they are integrated into the global economic system on unequal terms. the aid and development narrative hides the deep patterns of wealth extraction that causes poverty and inequality in the first place: rigged trade deals, tax evasion, land grabs and the offshoring of the impact of excess resource consumption in the global north to the global south. aid and development aren’t working. since 1960, the income gap between the north and south has roughly tripled in size. a recent jason hickel study revealed that the global north’s imperialist financial appropriation from the south is worth over usd 10 trillion a year in northern prices, and that the south’s losses outstrip their aid receipts by a factor of 30. poverty is a political problem. therefore it requires a political solution. poor countries don’t need our aid – they need us to stop plundering them!
member of the commission. – mr president, many thanks for this debate and for the many relevant points raised. through the european financial architecture for development and with our team europe initiatives and the global gateway what we aim to do is to address the world’s most pressing challenges in a number of world regions, including sub-saharan africa. and i am pleased to know that we are making good progress across all key areas of the efad roadmap. we are attracting an increasing number of national and european development finance institutions who built the fabric of efad. global gateway will itself catalyse effort and incentivise stakeholders to work in the same direction because it requires better alignment of the various sources of eu funding, including notably the funding by the european investment bank. global gateway also creates a new strategic framework for bringing in more partners and more finances towards development outcomes in our partner countries. this includes the private sector, but it does not imply that funds are re-allocated to the private sector. we rather see it the other way around. we want to ensure that also private—sector investments are aligned with our and partner countries’ political priorities in support of the development objectives. i cannot underline enough the need for stronger collaboration between all relevant european actors, including in particular the european parliament. so as a next step, dear president, dear rapporteur, dear members, we will consider the observations and recommendations of this report very carefully, and the commission progress report on effort, which is due next spring, will provide further information for your consideration. thank you once again for the interest and your cooperation on this very important issue.
i would like to thank you very much, commissioner lenarčič. let me make a personal remark. it is very irritating to me, personally too, that i have to withdraw colleagues who have a lot to say and who exceed the speaking time, because speaking time is not a proposal but a rule, but these colleagues are there from the beginning to the end of the debate, like mr bullmann, while other colleagues come in here only for their speech, then immediately leave and behave indecently when they really exceed the speaking time for a fee and are withdrawn from the floor. it's very upsetting, and it's not in keeping with the dignity of this house.
the rapporteur. mr president, the debate in plenary has confirmed that there is a wide diversity of views on the objectives set out in my report. the sustainable development goals are an objective for the entire international community, including the european union. the paris agreement is a commitment of the entire international community, including the european union. the commitments made in addis ababa in 2015 are a commitment of the entire international community, including the european union. i accept the criticism of those who say: "but china must do its job". of course, it is not china or the european union. it is the european union and china and all others who have a duty to respond to the situation created by a financial gap of more than 4 000 billion dollars that is missing every year to achieve the sustainable development goals. so to those who are critical of access to borrowing, i would say: but where are we going to get the money if the banks and development finance institutions are not able to collect the savings to invest them for development purposes, in compliance with the partnership agreement, in the spirit of the principle of appropriation? all of this constitutes a huge list of burdens that financial institutions have to meet. in my view, borrowing is entirely justifiable if it allows long-term investment and if, as long as the country in question has to pay back, future generations can still benefit from it. finally, i would say to those who say that the plundering of resources must stop: of course it must stop. mr. wallace said so. but it is not the looting or the financial contributions through official development assistance or the funds mobilized by financial institutions, it is both. it's not one or the other, it's both. finally, the european union can do a lot. she can't do everything. as michel rocard said, we cannot accept all the misery in the world, but we must do our part.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 24 november 2022.
i have two announcements to make before we move on to the next item on the agenda. the competent authorities of denmark have informed the president of the election of mr bergur løkke rasmussen, mr erik poulsen and mr anders vistisen as members of the european parliament with effect from 22 november 2022. you will replace mr søren gade, ms linea søgaard-lidell and mr peter kofod respectively. i welcome these new colleagues and remind them that they now have full rights to participate in the meetings of parliament and its institutions, subject to the examination of their mandates.
the renew europe group has sent the president decisions on the change of appointments to committees and delegations. these decisions will be recorded in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the date of this announcement.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the human rights situation in egypt (2022/2962 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me start by stressing that respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms constitutes a key element of eu—egypt relations. our approach is to have a constructive engagement and achieve progress in the eu—egypt human rights dialogue, as this will help advance our partnership. in this regard, human rights are identified as an area of cooperation in the eu—egypt partnership priorities, which is the political framework of our partnership. the european parliament resolution in december 2020 and the resolution on the un climate change conference in sharm el—sheikh in october 2022 raised important points that we have sought to address in our work. we engage continuously with our egyptian counterparts on the issue of human rights at all levels. the high representative/vice—president last discussed human rights with foreign minister shoukry during the 9th eu—egypt association council in june. our engagement on human rights has facilitated the first visit of the eu special representative for human rights to egypt in april this year. plans for the effective implementation of egypt’s national human rights strategy were at the centre of all his discussions. the right to political dissent, freedom of speech and freedom of assembly are a particular object of attention. the eu delegation in cairo engages with civil society actors and human rights defenders, supports the work of civil society organisations and reaches out to government officials. at the same time, we engage in brussels with egyptian human rights activists, egyptian and international non—governmental organisations, as well as the egyptian mission. a year ago, egypt published its first national strategy on human rights. its effective implementation and sustained progress are now of the essence. we are looking forward to the first year review to take stock of the progress achieved. in the framework of the eu—egypt association agreement, the subcommittee on political matters and human rights, scheduled for december, will be another opportunity to exchange in this regard. we welcome the personal commitment by president el—sisi to progress on human rights, even in areas where this is controversial in egypt. meanwhile, we have also taken note of the reinstatement of the presidential pardon committee and the subsequent number of prisoner releases. the eu has called for the release of the remaining detained human rights defenders and journalists. in our engagements, we encourage egyptian authorities to make sure that the released detainees are fully reintegrated into society at large; this is very important. in the run up to cop27, we maintained that ensuring a meaningful participation of youth and ngos was of the utmost importance. we have seen that civil society was given the space to discuss the challenges of climate change and also address human rights issues at cop27. this is something that we need to take positive note of and welcome. i thank you for your attention and i am looking forward to our exchange.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, the european union and egypt are partners and friends and as such, we can share our concerns and engage with goodwill and in good faith for the improvement of the human rights situation in egypt. we believe that only with such positive engagement can we achieve good results for the benefit of the citizens of egypt, as well as for the civil society, the free media and all minority groups in the country. we do not believe that we can achieve this goal by pressuring the government with non—constructive resolutions. we need to engage with open minds and at a different level with the egyptian government and civil society as the eu and the commission has already been doing. egypt is a key and strategic partner for the eu and an important regional player in a region defined by instability and conflict. the eu-egypt relations entail a multitude of important areas from energy, trade, science and cultural cooperation to the fight against international terrorism. the eu has supported egypt in its security, economic and political challenges, and the european commission has allocated eur 100 million to egypt from the mechanism food and resilience facility in order to mitigate the impact of the russian aggression against ukraine. we observe the work of the egyptian presidential pardon committee, which conducts investigation of cases of prisoners’ situations that are not complying with international human rights standards. up to this moment, we have seen over 1 000 detainees released, which is a step in the right direction. however, we should like to see all people arrested in relation to the protests in egypt released. following the ninth eu-egypt association council meeting this summer it is critical to keep up and reinforce the eu commitment and willingness to cooperate with egypt in the important area of democracy, fundamental freedoms and human rights, gender equality and equal opportunity, as well to address the root causes of terrorism and extremism.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, now that the cop27 in sharm el sheikh, egypt has come to an end, but the nightmare of human rights activists and defenders, journalists and civil society in the country has not ended, it is a good time to talk about it, to shed light on the more than 60,000 political prisoners in the country: women and men arbitrarily imprisoned and who have no access to a fair trial. i would like to make two brief comments on the speeches which have preceded me. the european commission has literally said that it applauds president al-sisi's commitment to human rights: would you give the president of a brutal autocracy that systematically violates human rights a rating like this? at the same time we heard a statement from another political group on its position and progress. i think the only thing we should try to do is have a shared demand, because, then, when we come here and talk about china, or iran, or russia, why don't we use the same language? why do we speak so differently? and then the rest of the world tells us, rightly, that if we use double standards. all i ask is a little bit of a demand. because what might have seemed like an opportunity like the cop, in the end has been a mirage. there has been no real progress, gestures have been made that have not become reality, a deplorable situation is being experienced in the country... in the end it was a showcase for repression, which is what we were able to see the delegation at the cop, with an absolutely disproportionate and unprecedented presence of egyptian security forces inside the venue. we must remember the cases of alaa abdel fattah, zaki and, of course, giulio regeni, for whom we are asking for justice, reparation and, above all, the truth. we must continue to collaborate, to work with the egyptian authorities, but stop doing what does not work. and the human rights work is not going well with the country.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we are indeed back from sharm el—sheikh, from the cop27, where i was last week as a delegation leader of the european parliament’s delegation to cop27. i have to be very honest, if i then hear the commission say that they are very happy with the room for civil society that was there, then sorry but you were not there. there is a shrinking space for civil society there in sharm el—sheikh. people were intimidated, harassed. there is even a complaint by the german government; they don’t do that for nothing. we, with this badge, were harassed at the entrance, where we were only making the claim that political prisoners should be freed. we were harassed for that. i expect the commission to speak out on that, and not say that it’s all fine, and that indeed we see, as my colleague from renew said, that some prisoners were freed, because at the same time we know that since then at least 1 953 egyptians were imprisoned. that should be the focus of our story, that should be the focus of this discussion. we have left sharm el—sheikh. we can go freely back to europe, but the civil society of egypt stays in egypt, and are now under close scrutiny after cop27. that should be our concern and prime focus. i’m sincerely disappointed by the speech by the european commission. because we do know what the political prisoners are ongoing, and that civil society is getting less and less room in egypt. we have a standing rapporteur, mr mounir satouri, who will keep on following this situation, but that is the message we should give to the civil society in egypt: that maybe cop27 moved on, but we will keep on keeping this issue very close. that’s also the message that this resolution is giving, and also the message to the un, that for the next time, the next cops, there should be room for freedom of expression and for civil society to make their voices heard in any un conference that is being organised – and that i also expect to hear from the commission.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, egypt is a friendly country and a strategic partner with whom we share the same objectives of building a future of stability, peace and prosperity in the mediterranean. it will be essential to strengthen our cooperation on trade policies, energy security, the fight against illegal immigration and human trafficking, as well as terrorism and radicalisation. however, the european union and its member states must continue to take strong diplomatic action to push egypt to make progress in the field of human rights and the protection of minorities, such as the copts in the country. but as an italian and a european, i believe that the time has come to demand the truth about the kidnapping and death of giulio regeni, which took place in january 2016, urging the egyptian authorities to put aside the climate of hostility and lack of cooperation that they have had so far, to cooperate with the italian authorities regarding the four egyptian intelligence agents suspected of the kidnapping and to bring to justice the real perpetrators. we owe this above all to the family of giulio regeni, to our credibility in the international context and to our desire to establish stable, loyal and credible bilateral relations with egypt.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, commissioner, attending the cop last week in egypt we heard testimony of el—sisi’s brutal crackdown on activists and journalists who live in constant fear for their lives. they face intimidation, harassment and surveillance on a daily basis. the harassment even extended to attendees of the climate summit. while we were there, 400 new ones were arrested and three died from lack of care in prison. egypt’s us-backed regime has effectively banned the right to peaceful assembly and moved to shut down civil society. an estimated 65 000 political prisoners are unjustly detained. among them is alaa abd el-fattah, arrested for his opposition to the government and imprisoned for over nine years now. his recent hunger strike was ended by being force fed by the egyptian authorities. sisi’s dictatorship not only gets a free pass for its repression, last year macron decorated sisi with the grand cross of the legion of honour, a praise i imagine france gives to all brutal dictators who choose france as their number one weapons dealer. we never shut up about human rights in here, but we only call for action against enemies of the us. we have zero credibility on human rights as long as the likes of france, germany and italy profit from egypt’s oppression and warmongering. as long as we maintain these double standards, the eu will rightly be seen as a joke when moralising on the world stage. would it be too much to ask of the eu to ask its us member states to stop supplying sisi’s dictatorship with weapons until all political prisoners are released?
a uachtaráin, having attended cop last week in egypt, obviously the main focus was on climate change, which of course was the primary purpose. and i think we did an awful lot of that. but we did have an opportunity to engage also with human rights activists in egypt, and their stories certainly were very strong and very compelling. and we did promise that we would bring these to the attention of our colleagues here in the european parliament, which this debate allows us to do. some people would say maybe that events like cop and maybe the world cup in qatar shouldn’t take place in those countries, but i think if we utilise it to ensure that we aren’t mugged, that we bring back the messages and act accordingly, then we can turn that into a benefit, because if you don’t go to a lot of countries where there are human rights issues, then the number unfortunately that you’ll be going to will be probably very limited. but definitely it’s good that we have the opportunity to bring back the message: egypt must step up to the plate and reduce a lot of these human rights and human abuses which are too prevalent altogether.
mr president, i’d just like to really add my comments to the strong words of colleagues that we do ourselves no favours by being geopolitical in which human rights that we condemn. and the testimony of activists in egypt is really quite frightening. at least 520 websites blocked, 129 of them news sites. the government actively tracking down and targeting those who publish content on social media which is critical of government policies, even as people experience very difficult living conditions. and we’ve even had a number of women who had used tiktok to present dancing content being imprisoned on the grounds of protecting morals. so we have to be very clear in calling out that there has to be an end to the internet censorship, including blocking news websites, particularly mada masr, al-manassa and darb. we must encourage the government to adopt amendments to the ngo law, which effectively means that the security services decide which ngos can operate. and we must call and add our call to the call of this parliament for alaa abd el-fattah to be released and freed from his illegal detention.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for your interventions. we take a very careful note of them. i would like to assure you all that respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is part and parcel of eu—egypt relations. there are issues that need to be addressed, and this includes the case of alaa abd el—fattah. this includes the regini case, among others. as for any other country, this is our continuous endeavour. the eu will continue cooperating and engaging on human rights with egypt, also after cop27. the european union has a clear interest to support egypt in maintaining long—term stability and security. but we at the same time very much believe that this can only be achieved if all aspects of human rights are fully implemented and upheld. we will further advance and strengthen our engagement with our egyptian partners, and we look forward to continuing this work, including in the upcoming established dialogue which will take place in december in the subcommittee on human rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 24 november 2022.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in afghanistan, with particular reference to the deterioration of women's rights and the attacks on educational institutions (2022/2955 ((rsp)) *. the president of the commission
author. – mr president, commissioner, i deeply deplore the recent attacks against the educational institutions in afghanistan and call on the authorities to hold those responsible accountable. the deteriorating situation for women and girls in afghanistan continues to be of grave concern. since the taliban took power, they have undone women’s position in society, removed them from public life, closed secondary schools for girls, and restricted women’s right to freedom of movement, employment and political participation. i strongly condemn this systematic rollback. with our resolution, we send a strong message of support to all those women and girls that are affected. we demand respect for and protection of their rights. we urge to ensure that broad education is equally accessible for all, for boys and girls, and in line with unesco’s standards and principles. in the end, i was in peshawar five years ago, where they repatriated these women. i still remember the sad eyes of the girl who spoke to me and who said that the only thing she wants in her life is to get an education, but her father doesn’t allow her that. she is in afghanistan somewhere now. i wish her well and i wish that her situation changes.
author. mr president, in afghanistan, more than a year after the taliban takeover, there is no gender discrimination, there is true gender apartheid: a systematic segregation designed to erase women and girls from the public space. this is a demand of the women human rights defenders in afghanistan, which we are echoing today in this parliament, which will be the first institution in the international community to adopt this term. let's call it what it is. the women and girls in afghanistan are living in a living hell. it's been 430 days now that girls in afghanistan have had their schools closed. but let us also remember that from here we have a responsibility. we can do more. we need to coordinate our efforts internationally to protect women defenders, by offering them education and employment options. we need to review our points of agreement to work with afghanistan. our relations can never be legitimized by a terrorist authority which has declared war on women. it's a real apartheid of the sexes.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: this is a very important debate, because it is needed especially by those of us, including those in eu diplomacy, who want to pursue a 'realpolitik' with afghanistan, who want to sacrifice, on the altar of 'well, certain relations, the preservation of certain relations, perhaps their improvement' to human rights, including women's rights. and i think the message of this debate, which i think is good, we are above divisions, is that it should be delivered to those on our side, on the european union side, who actually prefer to be blind to what's happening in afghanistan, to what's happening under the taliban. of course, we hear all the time that they're better than the taliban of 20 years ago, more educated, more moderate. but it's the same thing all the time. it's all about human rights violations, including women's rights. we really need to be united on this issue and we need to convince our colleagues who want to be behind such a 'realpolitik'.
author. mr president, we know that the taliban regime systematically violates the rights of women and girls. we know that there is gender apartheid. we know that 850,000 girls have been prevented from attending secondary school for more than a year. we know all this and we condemn it. we demand full accountability for the taliban regime and welcome the reopening of the international criminal court's investigation into war crimes against humanity and war crimes in afghanistan. but you have to go much further. we need the growing attacks on minority groups like the hazara to be called by its name, genocide, as the special rapporteur has stated. we need the countries of the european union to grant humanitarian visas to afghans seeking protection here, giving priority to women and girls. we need member states to support the implementation of the temporary protection directive for afghans. the system of double standards adopted in the european union is unsustainable. we need to help the refugee-hosting countries with humanitarian, financial and technical assistance. we need legal routes and safe travel for afghan refugees and we need, above all and also, to take responsibility. 20 years after the illegal intervention of the united states and nato, the conflict has caused great suffering and serious damage to the economic and social development of afghanistan. we need, therefore, and also to correct the legacy of human rights abuses of the last 20 years.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. dear colleagues! to say that the human rights situation in afghanistan, and in particular the situation of women and religious minorities, is difficult is to say nothing. the systematic exclusion of women from public life, the banning of women from parks and sports facilities, the restriction of women's freedom of movement - these are just a few examples. the most serious of the bans is the ban on young girls continuing their education, which will have a huge negative impact on women in afghanistan for years to come, marginalizing them, increasing the risk of child marriage and severely reducing women's career prospects. the european union should actively support organisations and activists working to defend human rights, protect women and minorities in afghanistan. in addition to calling on the afghan authorities to respect human rights and international law, we should also call for the establishment of an independent body under the un human rights council to investigate and document all violations of international law and human rights in the country. we cannot allow those responsible to escape any responsibility for all these acts.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we all know the famous quote by nelson mandela: "education is the most powerful weapon you can use to change the world". and for all the reasons that are supposedly given by the taliban for why girls and women are excluded from education in afghanistan, perhaps the real reason for the repression by the taliban is that they are afraid of change, that the loss of their own power status is at hand, and afraid of the power of girls and young women to make positive change towards a free and prosperous afghanistan. i am convinced that in the end the desire for freedom will prevail and the desire for human rights will be greater and more powerful than the criminal regime of the taliban. but that doesn't mean we can just sit back and watch. we must, as the european union, actively support and help the girls and women in afghanistan on their way to free self-development. education is one of, if not the most important, building blocks. i conclude with the words of 17-year-old afghan mursal fasihi, who says: "i hope that young girls will not give up. it's okay to be scared, it's okay to cry, but giving up is not an option. our bright morning will come.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, the return of the taliban to power in afghanistan has turned this country, ravaged by decades of conflict and tension, into a radical islam reserve where entire social groups, primarily minorities and women, have become second-class citizens. the taliban’s systematic action in restricting women’s social and political rights and denying girls access to education is inexcusable. it is a complete waste of the progress of the last 20 years and a reversal of the promise of a better future. the taliban’s actions deserve to be clearly labelled as gender-based apartheid. these are crimes that must be immediately ceased, investigated and punished. i call on the icc prosecutor to immediately undertake an investigation into the taliban’s crimes of discrimination against and attempted erasure of women and girls from public life. i also call for more eu and international efforts to support women’s rights defenders and for continued action to empower afghan women and girls.
on behalf of the the left group. – mr president, more than a year after the international community adopted a policy of not dealing with the taliban. more than a year after the us froze usd 7 billion of afghan financial resources and continued vicious sanctions against that country, and more than a year after the eu spent a mere eur 400 million on humanitarian aid for afghanistan, despite the us spending usd 300 million a day for 20 years during the war, we have got to a place where now women are even banned from public parks. what an absolute unmitigated disaster. ignoring afghanistan is not a solution. yes, we should open our borders and take in refugees. daily, i have met with desperate pleas of people, but how many are we going to take? one million, two million? then what are we going to do with the millions who are left behind? i’m assuming that nobody here is mad enough to think of invading again. if that’s the case, we have to deal with reality. the most basic human right is the right to life. we have to start allowing the economy to function, linking improvements to that. anything else is condemning afghan women not just to exclusion, but to death. we have to stop standing idly by.
a uachtaráin, afghanistan is about to endure its second winter since the taliban’s seizure of power in august 2021. since then, the rights of women have been trampled on. conflict, violence and human rights violations have become an inseparable part of the lives of ordinary citizens. the country’s economy is in a shambles and a major food crisis is escalating. life has become particularly tough for female scholars and students. thousands have fled to neighbouring iran and pakistan and have applied to organisations that help academics to find posts in other countries. however, fewer than 10% have been successful as visa wait—times continue to be a challenge for many. i have encountered the same difficulties as i have tried to help a lady academic and her family escape the clutches of the taliban. i urge the eu to take immediate action to secure the lives and careers of afghanistan’s women and scholars, and i call for a more coordinated response to protect those most vulnerable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support this resolution because it is important that the european parliament should support those who are fighting for human rights, in this case, in particular, for education, women who are fighting for their right to education. it is unbelievable that afghanistan, which received one billion euros in eu aid last year, is able to humiliate women in this way, persecute religious minorities, including christians. the taliban knows the power of education, and i wish all the more that afghan women would persevere in their protest and not be silenced as much as scientists and journalists. we call on the european commission to make further financial assistance conditional on respect for human rights, including the right to education.
mr president, afghanistan is not a good place to be a woman. while the taliban government put in place more restrictions on women’s rights, western sanctions slowly starve the country to death. we helped to destroy the place for 20 years. now we have a responsibility to provide shelter to those who are suffering as a result. the eu response to the ukraine refugee crisis shows what is possible when the political will is there. what we were aiming to do with this resolution is stress the need for similar protection for afghan refugees. but the big groups in here weren’t having it. they seem content with the two—tier system we put in place all over europe for refugees and asylum seekers. nowhere is that more obvious than in ireland, a country long criticised for its cruel direct provision system. we have thrown open the doors for ukrainian refugees while leaving them closed to the rest. in an interview with the irish times, a young afghan woman talked about the different treatment refugees received, particularly in terms of accommodation, where host families are now paid eur 100 a month to host ukrainian refugees but nothing to host refugees from afghanistan or elsewhere. she said it’s sad that they are seen as less than ukrainians. it’s not just sad, it’s racism – and shame on all the politicians who are perpetrating it!
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the european union has a clear commitment to the afghan people, and we follow closely the human rights situation in the country and in particular, the rights of women and girls. as it has been said by many in this debate, there is a systematic deterioration of women’s rights in afghanistan since the taliban took power. they have deprived girls of secondary education, issued restrictions on women’s dress, work and movement, even barring them from entering public parks and gyms. women have been excluded from most aspects of economic and social life. shelters and mechanisms to protect women and girls from violence and forced marriages have been dismantled, severely restricting women’s ability to seek help, despite reports of an increase in gender—based violence. in the past year, afghanistan has also seen repeated attacks on educational institutions, on students eager to learn, with many of these attacks claimed by isis. the terrorist attacks also targeted religious and ethnic minorities, particularly the hazara community. the european union condemns all the restrictions on women’s rights and continues to call on the de facto authorities to honour afghanistan’s obligations under international law, in particular human rights, refugee and international humanitarian law. they have the obligation to protect all the population, to bring perpetrators to justice, and to ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms of the entire afghan population. we will continue to support afghan human rights activists and civil society as we do worldwide as a fundamental principle of the european union. this support includes raising individual cases of human rights defenders in our engagement with the de facto authorities, issuing statements on specific cases or developments of acute concern, financial support to civil society organisations and continuation of safe—passage operations for those afghans that are particularly at risk and that want to leave. the humanitarian situation in afghanistan is beyond dramatic. the recent united nations humanitarian needs overview states that in 2023, over 28 million people out of 34 million afghan population will need humanitarian assistance. estimations are that the united nations will therefore call for usd 4.6 billion for next year for humanitarian aid alone. there are alarming levels of poverty and food insecurity and limited access to healthcare, particularly for women and children. the european union has already mobilised eur 396 million for humanitarian aid in afghanistan for 2021 and 2022. and this is more than 10 times of what was initially allocated for the country before the taliban takeover. where is this funding going? it is going to many things, including financing programmes on protection, financing community—based education for girls who are deprived of their right to school, financing basic healthcare for women and girls. and we have also recently redirected eur 450 million of development aid for the basic needs of afghan people; needs like health, nutrition, education, water and sanitation and livelihoods. and also in these fields we have a specific focus on the needs of women and girls. an additional eur 20 million have been also allocated for crisis response. we shall continue to do our utmost to alleviate this major humanitarian, social, economic and human rights crisis.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. more than a year after the taliban returned to power, what remains of the hopes of a few gullible pundits for the coming of a moderate government? the same is true of the most basic rights of women. from education to dress code, from the most petty of disguises to restrictions on access to kabul's parks and gardens, nothing has been spared. beyond the outrage that this litany of persecutions arouses, it is also necessary to underline the absurdity that they represent at a time when the afghan population is crying out for famine. because of women's work and their indispensable contribution to the household, children and entire families are reduced to poverty. for us in the west, it is also a question of how far the humanitarian imperative must lead us to compromise our core values. what can be said when the taliban impede the work of women working for humanitarian organizations? clearly, in our commitment to the status of women in the world, it is up to us to lead by example.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on the continuing repression of the democratic opposition and civil society in belarus (2022/2956 ((rsp)) *. the following table is added: see minutes of the hearing.
author. – mr president, colleagues, while lukashenko’s illegitimate regime enables putin’s aggression against ukraine, it continues to oppress and terrorise its own people. there are now at least 1 450 political prisoners and tens of thousands more who are suffering under the regime’s oppression. in particular, i would like to highlight my brave friend pavel seviarynets, who has been held in inhuman conditions for more than two years and has spent more than a decade in and out of lukashenko’s prisons. pavel and all the political prisoners and their families, those fleeing lukashenko’s oppression and all the people of belarus deserve our unwavering support and solidarity. i especially call on the european political parties to provide all necessary assistance to their belarus member parties. at the same time, let us exert maximum pressure on the illegitimate regime so that belarus can be free and sovereign and its people enjoy freedom and democracy. finally, let me thank colleagues for all the cross-party support in this house, for their support of belarus, which this house continues to show.
author. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, belarus is a hostage of post-soviet tyranny. the prosecution of critics and political opponents and fierce violence continue to dominate the lukashenko regime’s policies. this year’s nobel peace prize for the belarus human rights organisation ‘vesna’ is a symbol of the understanding we all have of what is really happening in belarus and of the support expressed to its democratic opposition and civil society. we must do everything possible to ensure that political opponents and civil society activists return to freedom from overcrowded belarusian prisons. it is they, together with the country society, not lukashenko’s gang, who will determine the future of belarus. i invite you to continue to strengthen our joint action to help the people of belarus to move away from their dictatorial past. we must continue diplomatic and political pressure, as well as strengthen economic sanctions against the lukashenko regime. let us be under no illusions, this is a terrorist policy regime just like the one in the kremlin.
author. – mr president, commissioner, terror and repression imposed by the usurper lukashenko and his regime on belarusian people, thousands of them imprisoned, including the nobel peace prize laureate ales bieletski and andrzej poczobut – over 600 days in prison. young journalists in cages during court proceedings, de—routing of poles and lithuanians, russifying very actively belarusians enabling putin to wage his war of aggression on ukraine. despite all of this, belarusian people consolidate in opposing the regime. they build structures. they actively fight together with ukrainians against illegal aggression. despite all of this! (the speaker used a slogan in a non-eu language)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, commissioner, a pro-kremlin group just took down the website of the european parliament because we called russia and lukashenko’s regime exactly what they are. russia is a state sponsor of terrorism and lukashenko is its eager accomplice. let me make this very clear. the voices of freedom will not be silenced. lukashenko can throw 1400 peaceful democracy activists in jail, including even nobel prize laureate ales bialiatski; he can try to crush any remaining dissent; he can invite russian occupation troops into belarus in a desperate attempt to hold on to power, but he will not succeed. his dictatorship will end, and belarus will be democratic and free. our european union must give the legitimate representatives of the belarusian people all the assistance they need. i call on you personally, mr president, to ensure that our parliament does the same – building solid relationships with the democratic opposition. (the speaker used a slogan in a non-eu language)
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you are once again here in the register of morality. like a new church that wants to impose itself with priests, masses and vows. the new world looks at you with irony. nations have their histories, states have their constraints, individuals have their territorial, familial and biological affections. political action calls for realism. that doesn't mean we shouldn't stand up for law or democracy. but your logic is that our countries are falling behind africa, asia, even friendly countries. you're just isolating yourself. and you perpetuate an inappropriate sense of the anachronistic arrogance of the west.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! belarus is part of europe. the people in belarus are europeans. they have non-european powers, but i would very much like us not to turn our backs on belarus. and that means that we have to support those who think like us: they think in terms of freedom, in terms of human rights, in terms of media freedom. we must also speak out today in defence of the national minorities in belarus. the largest minority there are my countrymen, the poles, who very clearly stood for freedom and that is why they are repressed today. that's why they're in prison today. not just them, of course. i believe that our voices must be heard. and it's good that he's a voice from different parts of our parliament. let's not put politics in perspective when we're out there. let's not pretend that lukashenko is not putin's aide because he is.
mr president, the belarusian regime has been showing its true colors for years now - torture, arrests, imprisonment, deaths, journalists being persecuted, families being destroyed. it's about the terror of the belarusian citizens. this is terror, an undeclared war on society, led by president lukashenko himself. he's not the president, he wasn't elected legitimately, but he's waging this undeclared war against ukraine. and it must be said that there will be no place, no earthling where lukashenko and his minions can hide. we will investigate every crime, we will prosecute, and i believe that justice will be found for all victims. long live the belarus!
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is facing an invasion and a few psychopaths. the first is president putin, the second is president lukashenko. i think there is no excuse for their behavior and no human justice is fair to their regime. i think we have to do the maximum for this and exert the maximum pressure so that one day president lukashenko will answer for his actions not only against the opposition, not only against democracy, not only against duly elected representatives, but also against what he has done and is doing systematically against ukraine. he's part of what russia's doing in ukraine. he is vladimir putin's biggest supporter. he's as much of a criminal as vladimir putin. glory to ukraine, glory to the belarusian opposition!
mr president, in recent months, we’ve seen the arrest and imprisonment of trade union representatives in belarus. most recently, the vice—president of the belarusian independent labour union was sentenced to 30 months in prison. and protests and strikes led by working—class people have highlighted the level of discontent with the lukashenko government. as a former trade unionist, i absolutely support the struggles of workers everywhere. but i think it’s interesting we have a second plenary in a row where we’re discussing the repression of the opposition in belarus, and we’ve never once mentioned the repression of the opposition in ukraine, the banning of opposition parties, the kill—lists of dissidents, the banning of trade unions, the decimation of workers’ rights in that state. and the european union has to stop looking at protests in countries we don’t like as an opportunity to have a go at them. the belarus protests are not guided by neoliberal—inspired policies of the west. they have a right to have their protests without western interference. if you’re interested in workers’ rights and democratic rights, stand by the workers who are being persecuted inside the european union.
mr president, we don’t interfere with you when you’re talking nonsense. thanks very much, mr president. like most countries, belarus has a lot of problems, and if i was living in belarus, i’m sure i’d want rid of lukashenko too. the treatment of workers and the imprisonment of political prisoners is really sad to see. i would call on lukashenko to release all political prisoners. however, for the life of me, i don’t actually understand how you think that interfering in the place is actually going to help. can you name one country that you’ve interfered in in the last 50 years where you have helped? all across africa, afghanistan, iraq and syria. european countries are pumping arms into yemen now to help in the saudi genocide. if you think that ukraine is going to be a better place after supporting this us-nato proxy war, with as much money as you can muster, god help us.
the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the democratic republic of the congo. we need to act. to mobilise the international community and actively raise awareness among local authorities to condemn and punish by example the attacks on civilians by armed groups in the eastern part of the republic of congo; to neutralise the armed groups operating in the country with international support; to investigate, denounce and criminalise the human rights violations in the country, in particular the abuses against girls and women used as weapons of war; to create a platform for dialogue involving all parties to the conflict, so that through negotiation conditions are created for the return of thousands of displaced civilians to their homes. the democratic republic of the congo is experiencing a context of major democratic, political and social fragility, which poses serious threats to national and regional stability, with increased interference by terrorist-inspired rebel movements linked to daesh and isis. the unregulated exploitation of natural resources fuels conflict and funds armed groups, while creating an intolerable humanitarian situation. it is not enough to pass another resolution. we europeans must also be part of the solution.
mr. president, the humanitarian crisis in the democratic republic of congo is, according to the latest reports, dramatically deepening. tens of thousands more are fleeing their homes in the east of the country amid fighting between rebels from the so-called m23 group and government forces. the people no longer believe that the new negotiations in kenya will bring peace. most refugees lack basic necessities, including clean water or even canvas to build shelter from frequent rains. cholera is even appearing in the refugee camps, and this, of course, greatly multiplies the problems that the entire region may soon face. attempts to restore peace in the eastern part of the congo were renewed only a few days ago. former kenyan president kenyatta, who is the facilitator of these talks, has appealed to rebel groups to lay down their arms, but so far, of course, these efforts have failed. meanwhile, other people are dying and suffering. tomorrow, i think we have to take an adequate stance in the interest of these tens of thousands, even hundreds of thousands of people at risk.
mr president, commissioner, in october the m23, supported by rwanda, launched an offensive against the regular army of the democratic republic of congo, which is plunging the country back into extreme violence. as you know, this violence and instability in the region is not new and is mainly caused by the question of the underground resources of this region, resources that are plundered by neighbours for the benefit of companies and international groups that fuel corruption, which finance armed groups to guarantee access at the lowest cost. we must make a strong case for a regional solution in the short and medium term. of course, in the short term, the humanitarian issue must be addressed for the displaced. but if we do anything short-term, we'll always be in the same cycle of violence again. so a regional resolution of the conflict is important. we must fight corruption and sanction people and companies, such as mr dan gertler, who is an excessively powerful operator today in the drc, sanctioned by the americans and yet finds refuge in europe to hide his money. we need to evaluate the law on conflict minerals which today is not applicable in the territory and we need to set up mixed courts which are courts that fight against impunity in the democratic republic of congo.
mr president, as we sit here having this debate about the democratic republic of congo, i think it’s important to remember that during the scramble for africa, the drc was made king leopold’s personal possession. he oversaw the death of 10 to 15 million congolese, while enriching himself and belgium from 1885 to 1906. the genocidal monster is still honoured in belgium today. today, france and totalenergies are the ones looking to enrich themselves at the expense of the congolese lives in order to avoid a mozambique-like disaster, where total’s reckless activities have created an insurgency. france has been training security forces in the drc and uganda in order to secure and speed up the crude oil pipeline projects around lake albert. the militarisation has heightened already tense relations between rwanda and uganda, and is likely the cause of the revival of the m23 rebel group that is at the heart of the violence in east drc today. if the eu really wants to help: stop the colonisation and work for the peace process, bringing everyone to the negotiating table.
mr president, eastern congo is one of the wealthiest regions in the world, home to a variety of natural resources – gold, diamonds, oil – and the largest producer of cobalt, at 70%. and because of this, it’s been plagued by fighting with massively over 120 rebel groups in that area for over 25 years, with rwanda accused of stirring it up in a proxy war to gain access to those resources. and the consequences for the people of that region have already been tragically articulated in this chamber. the systemic and deliberate use of mass rapes, designed terror in order to force people to flee from their homes, leading to massive trauma, which will be felt for generations. this absolutely has to be dealt with. now, last week, the drc’s national assembly voted to exclude the option of dialogue with m23. the supreme defence council decided to increase the strike force of defence and security forces against m23. this is lunacy. there cannot be a military solution. there will be no justice without peace. absolutely everything has to be done to get that, so those responsible can be held to account.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and the commission! i would like to ask you to consider this resolution as a call to action. the wolf's settlement is a success story. we have stable, growing wolf populations, which means that the conservation status can be reduced; the population can be regulated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. define wolf-free areas! help our farmers, help our cultural landscape, help our rural areas! the commission, dear commissioner, please do something and do not ruin wolf's success story!
mr president, large carnivores, such as wolves and bears, are legally protected species in the eu under the habitats directive and the bern convention. however, many of these large carnivore species have not yet achieved favourable conservation status. of course, coexistence with large carnivores can cause conflict with human socio—economic interests, but hundreds of wolves are already killed each year in the eu using the existing exemptions in the habitats directive. the legal protections for large carnivores must be upheld. instead of decreasing these protections, the eu and member states need to more rigorously pursue mitigation strategies to achieve greater coexistence and implement measures to quickly and adequately compensate farmers for any losses. large carnivores belong to the european biodiversity heritage that the eu has committed to restore and preserve through the adoption of the habitats directive and the biodiversity strategy. it is crucial that the commission and council reject the concerted and coordinated campaign to reduce protection for these animals.
mr. chairman, the coexistence of cattle and large animals almost sounds like a big contradiction. despite the success of the european commission, and i think all of us, it was precisely because of this that these beasts proliferated on the european continent. perhaps too much, according to some. of course, grazing cattle where there's a wolf is complicated. i'm not denying that at all, and i understand people's concerns. i understand the anger of the farmers. i think it's good to use the best practices that we've talked about here. there was talk of compensation, monitoring. maybe that's not enough. i'm not going to question that. anyway, finding a solution to coexistence, as the commissioner said, will be very difficult. i'm personally against hasty shifts and changes. i personally support the motion for a resolution, but i think that biodiversity should also be a very important value for us.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this debate. i think it has proven that this is a very important issue. i would like, first of all, to try and address some of the concerns that have been voiced by some of you. on the costs of co-existence measures, i would like to give you some perspective about the costs. in the framework of the prioritised action frameworks, the member states have estimated that the total needs for compensation, prevention and mitigation measures in relation to all protected species would amount to around eur 180 million per year. at the same time, the common agricultural policy has specifically earmarked for biodiversity eur 10.7 billion per year. this means that the potential maximum contribution from the common agricultural policy for wolf protection would then be a very, very small amount in comparison to the total biodiversity spending claimed from the common agricultural policy. on the effectiveness of livestock protection measures, these have been proven effective. they have been proven to prevent, or at least significantly reduce, predation risks – of course when properly implemented and tailored to the specific situation and to the specific context in which they’re applied. let me share with you just one of many examples of the prevention measures that were implemented under the life wolfalps project, which is a project implemented in the italian alps. this project led to a reduction of attacks of about 96%. the measures concern both cattle and sheep and were targeted to the different livestock breeders. they included electric fences, night—time enclosures, acoustic devices, livestock guarding dogs and the like. there are also some other examples with similar, or even higher, successful reduction, going up to 100%. on the level of protection of wolves, it is true that the wolf is no longer at risk of extinction in europe. that’s true. however, in most eu member states, it has not yet achieved a favourable status, according to national reports. the situation of this species is still fragile and is subject to a high level of human—caused mortality from poaching, from car accidents and from authorised culling. so we need to act very carefully. we believe that a strict protection status is still necessary in order to be able to achieve and to maintain a favourable conservation status, while i would like to recall that the removal of individual wolves is already permitted under certain conditions. on the impact of wolves on livestock farming in europe, it is known that wolves prey primarily on wild animals like red deer, roe deer, wild boar and chamois, and so on. it is also true, of course, that if livestock is not properly protected in wolf areas, the risk of predation can become significant at local level. but according to the study carried out for the european parliament back in 2018, wolf predation numbers at eu level concern around 20 000 sheep per year. this is a big figure which can be drastically reduced with proper protection measures. but this figure, 20 000, represents 0.06% of the sheep numbers in the concerned countries – 0.06%. so i do not believe that the crisis of sheep farming or land abandonment are caused by large carnivores, also because this actually occurs in many areas where there is no presence of such carnivores, but where we also have issues of land abandonment and crisis in sheep farming. finally, on the impact of large carnivores on public safety, aggressiveness of large carnivores towards humans is considered to be an extremely rare phenomenon. for instance, we know that fatal wolf attacks on humans have been reported in historical times, but none, not one, has been recorded in the 21st century in europe. not a single one – even though there have been thousands of documented close encounters between wolves and humans. bear attacks are a different matter. they are documented in some cases in northern europe and the southeast balkans, but they also occur under very specific circumstances, often as a defensive mechanism such as the protection of offspring. but let me just put the whole of this issue in the wider context. it is useful to recall that by far most of the actual risks of animal attacks on humans actually come from domestic animals, primarily dogs. honourable members, it’s time to conclude from my side. nowadays there is a great deal of knowledge and experience on the different conflicts with wildlife species, including large carnivores, and also on the possible ways to address them. i can assure you that we, the european commission, are actively monitoring the issue at various levels with a view to supporting targeted and suitable solutions to achieve the objectives which we believe we share. the commission is committed to protect europe’s biodiversity, its habitats and species. that said, it is the member states who are responsible for wildlife management and for the implementation of eu nature legislation. the commission will, of course, contribute to the research, dissemination, promotion and support of good practices aiming at preventing and reducing possible conflicts caused by wildlife protected species.
the debate was closed with seven motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 november 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the legislation to protect wolves was more than necessary at the time and has since proved useful. at the same time, the situation has changed to such an extent that measures are necessary. with the increase in wolf populations, we are also seeing an increase in attacks that result in dead or injured farm animals. their presence in densely populated rural areas such as flanders has a negative impact on agriculture and tourism. the current preventive measures are not enough, with mounting costs for our farmers. compensation often does not cover all the costs of the damage caused. the presence of wolves cannot be expected to cause large economic losses to farms. we must therefore call on the european commission to compensate farmers for the damage and to work with the regions to apply the current control measures flexibly if prevention is not sufficient. if the population in certain regions has increased to such an extent that a reduction in the level of protection under the habitats directive is justified, we can no longer be in doubt. i think that in such situations the relocation of wolves must certainly be possible.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report. the plan to raise eur 17 billion a year for the eu budget from a new system of taxation on corporations and levies on emissions has been around for a while and is okay as far as it goes. but i do have some sympathy for people who are concerned about eu overreach. but a much bigger concern i have is that the eu hasn’t exactly been the most reliable guardian of the money that it already collects. we’ve had eur 8 billion kicked into a slush fund for the arms industry through the european defence fund, eur 5.7 billion through the sick joke of a european peace facility and eur 1.9 billion to the internal security fund. if that wasn’t bad enough, the eu budget now has a bonanza for weapons manufacturing with a staggering eur 43.9 billion in public money going to security and defence. that’s eur 43.9 billion earmarked for arms surveillance, border control, military r&d, and so on. you have to ask, will this eur 17 billion end up being spent on the same stuff? will it help people heat their homes, house the homeless, or will it pour into the pockets of the arms industry?
mr president, there is no legal framework for the eu to recognise a state sponsor of terrorism. you just pulled this antagonistic performance out of thin air. even the us, who have such a legal mechanism, have refrained from applying the label to russia. biden has argued that doing so could impact future efforts to negotiate a peace deal. the european parliament, instead of pursuing peace and an end to this bloody war – a war that’s killing tens of thousands, decimating european industry and jobs, creating soaring inflation and an unprecedented cost of living crisis – instead of any effort at diplomacy to remedy this disaster, you have voted to call russia names. what’s worse, nato is one of the most blood-drenched terrorist groups to curse this earth. it has murdered millions of human beings. the idea that any representative of a nato member state would label anyone else a sponsor of terrorism before calling out their own state is absurd.
mr. chairman, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. i also hoped that this house would support this resolution because russia is murdering ukrainians, russia is torturing ukrainians, russia is raping ukrainian women and men, russia is kidnapping ukrainian children, russia is looting and destroying ukrainian property. tell me, how does this approach differ from that of other terrorists? it's clear that russia is presenting itself as a terrorist. as a terrorist who doesn't hesitate, he doesn't shy away from using all the nefarious methods. and it's clear that your cyber attack on this house today has only increased our resolve to persevere.
mr president, i welcome today’s resolution recognising the russian federation as a state sponsor of terrorism. putin’s russia is waging a brutal war against the ukrainian people. it is bombing civilian targets, including homes, hospitals, schools and churches and systematically attacking ukrainian critical infrastructure. it is breaking all international conventions governing warfare and committing unspeakable crimes. that is why we must do all in our power to support the brave people of ukraine and ensure that putin’s regime one day faces international justice for the crimes committed.
mr president, i abstained on this report. to the spotless minds in europe, eu enlargement is about growing our happy family of democratic nations, prospering together in a brotherly paradise of enterprise and free trade. but the truth is, it’s a rich boys’ club, in which membership hinges upon sweeping neoliberal reforms –the last batch about boosting nato and a pool of cheap labour for the west. and for the last 20 years, we’ve left candidate countries in the balkans in accession purgatory, while we’ve lorded it over them through one thing or another. and now we’re going in the opposite direction for all the wrong reasons. the report is infected with megalomania. enlargement is now explicitly described as part of an eu geographic strategy against russia. wow! what a proposition to put to the working people in our neighbourhood. we want your country as a chess piece. you, too, can be like ukraine. the world isn’t our chessboard and the eu shouldn’t have an enlargement strategy. we should welcome those who want to join, respect those who don’t and stop ending this meddling.
mr president, for too long we lacked the vision and political will to utilise the transformative nature of the enlargement process. the consequences of this failure are there for us to see. non-democratic regimes are challenging european peace and security, threatening the stability of our neighbours and using malign investments to roll back years of democratic reforms. reclaiming this vision and will is crucial for our society. however, we must also be creative about the integration process. we need to enhance constructive political dialogue with the candidate, potential candidate and associated countries. include them as observers in commission comitology proceedings, council working groups, as well as specific meetings of the eu ministers and heads of state. we must work together to pursue our common values and interests and address the many challenges facing us today.
mr president, i voted against this report. its timing is pretty appropriate coming, as it does, a few short weeks after the 11th anniversary of the day libyan leader muammar gaddafi was killed during the nato assault on libya: sodomised with a bayonet and shot in the head. the nato intervention in libya, carried out in the name of protecting freedom, democracy and human rights, is one we’d do well to remember as nato plays out its proxy war in ukraine in the name of, you’ve guessed it, freedom, democracy and human rights. because what happens after nato intervenes in your country on this basis? terror, death, lawlessness, rape, poverty, starvation. libya is a country riven by conflict, its economy shattered, its population – formerly the wealthiest in africa – ridden and mired in poverty. migrants are bought and sold in slave markets. a million people rely on humanitarian aid. it’s a country of mass graves, of crimes against humanity. this is nato’s legacy. this is nato’s right strategy and democracy.
mr president, the report claims the eu is redoubling its diplomatic efforts to promote peace in libya. france spearheaded the illegal and unprovoked nato war of aggression on libya because it saw gaddafi as a threat to its interests in the region – in particular, france’s precious colonial cash-cow, the cfa franc. in the process of this war, massive quantities of weapons were pumped into the region by nato and gulf states. today, multiple militias fight each other with these weapons and continue to receive military supplies from european states, gulf states, turkey and russia. why do these reports always fail to acknowledge our role in the destabilisation we claim to be so worried about? two years ago, italy was engaged in a proxy war against france and russia for control of resources in libya. how can we square that with the notion that we want to promote peace in libya? how in god’s name can we have any credibility?
mr president, this report on stability and security in the broader middle east is incredible for what it manages to ignore and conceal. apparently in this region, instability and wars just spontaneously happen. it says the underlying causes of instability must be addressed, but there are none in the report. there was no iraq war, there was no regime change operation in syria. in this fairy tale, france, turkey, saudi arabia, the uk and the us didn’t train, arm and finance al-qaida and syria. saudi arabia, the uae, france and the uk have not been bombing the daylights out of yemen for eight years. iran, russia and turkey are active in syria, but america and israelis are nowhere. america and israelis are not illegally occupying syria and the israelis are not bombing syria every week. and the us and the eu are not sanctioning the syrian people to death. if we are incapable of talking honestly about our criminal actions, we are doomed to repeat them.
madam president, the objective of our 2022 european year of youth was to shine a light on the importance of europe’s youth in building a better future, and to put them at the centre of decision making. i believe the eu year was successful in some parts in achieving this, but the work cannot stop. it is essential that we, as eu decision makers, continue to welcome young people in every aspect of our work. we must build a lasting legacy. yearly youth conferences and events should take place across all four corners of our union, fostering local debates and encouraging young people to give their much—valued input into developing eu policy. in addition, i ask the commission to adopt an eu youth test to mainstream a youth perspective into the preparation of all our european policies. in september, i was delighted to welcome four aspiring parliamentarians from my midlands–north—west constituency to the parliament as part of the epp’s youth week. i saw first hand the commitment our young people have to our european peace project, our future and the invaluable perspectives they offered to us all. i want to thank chloe, lisa, amy and dean for joining us at epp youth week. let us ensure that we continue to listen to the voices of young people and make their future our ultimate mission. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – thank you very much for the question, colleague. i do agree with you. i think we rushed it. i think it was a fantastic year. but ultimately, look at the room right now. we should have 705 meps talking about how successful the european year of youth was in their constituency. we don’t. we should have younger people as part of this conversation, and not just the younger people sitting up here in the podiums. i think that when we talk about the european youth and protection and this lasting legacy, we also need to deep dive into what worked. i mentioned youth conferences and events, organised local events worked. but, ultimately, who wasn’t in the room? it was all those with different abilities not in the room. it was issues like mental health, like climate change, like the future of digitalisation and their impact on that. was that heard? it wasn’t. but now we have time, and ultimately i hope that in this building of a lasting legacy, we do take it seriously, and that in our culture and education committee, as we had agreed, we continue to have youth voices heard because, as i mentioned, it is our mission to protect our peace project for the future.
i'm afraid i'm going to have to be strict. wonderful speeches, all full of passion. but nevertheless, i really ask everyone to stick to the speaking times. it is always particularly unfair, of course, when i say this in front of the next speaker or the next speaker, if someone has just gone overboard. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question.
madam president, ‘rights not charity’. this is the slogan of the clare leader forum, an inspiring group in my own constituency who campaigned tirelessly to overhaul the outdated bureaucracy faced by people with disabilities. any irish person living with a disability – intellectual or physical – knows the daily struggle to secure services that are considered basic in many parts of europe. i recall the campaigner trish mcnamara saying to me that, as soon as she was in a wheelchair, it was like she turned invisible. still today, people are forced into nursing homes for lack of alternative suitable accommodation. at the owenacurra centre in middleton, cork, the voices of the vulnerable residents and service users have been all but ignored. i myself am battling to get my own daughter the assistance she needs against a system that just does not want to know. ireland has signed up to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it is time to put it into place.
madam president, i join in supporting this important initiative and of course i congratulate mrs pelletier on her report. i would also like to ask, on behalf of all, as my colleagues have done, for the updating of the directive on equal treatment. this directive is not prohibiting discrimination against these people. it's incredible. in the europe of the welfare state, in the europe of rights, which we so often boast about, these people do not have those rights. sometimes they can't even vote, as well as it has been collected here. it is absolutely unheard of in the european union. the right to decide is very important. accessibility must be a priority objective, a priority for all of us. the european union is not up to the task if they do not put this on the agenda of the priorities of both the commission and the council - which is not even here - and of this european parliament. i would like to conclude by saying that these people, as my colleague has said, do not want to be clumsy. they want rights. and in our ambition as politicians is to change things to make people's lives better. let's do it now.
madam president, commissioner dalli, when we talk about equal rights for disabled people, we are talking about fundamental rights and the charter that protects them, article 21 that prohibits any form of discrimination against them and article 26, which requires the european union to promote and fully integrate them. this is what is stated in the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, chaired by mrs pelletier. a european card that will eliminate national differences and highlight the problems of discrimination faced by people with disabilities. the promotion of their political participation, their access to health care, the prohibition of any form of violence or forced practice against them. and finally, it shows that by promoting the rights of disabled people, we are not only aiming at their rights as individuals, we are aiming at the improvement and transformation for the better of the whole of european society and that of the member states. but this debate will not be complete without pointing out that the directive on equal treatment, which has been blocked by the council for a whopping ten years, is still pending. it is absolutely inconceivable. and i think that is therefore an objective which the commission should strive for: that the equal treatment directive should complete the work which this european parliament is doing to eliminate discrimination against disabled people.
madam president, the right to timely access to affordable, preventative and curative healthcare of good quality is enshrined in the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the eu and all its member states have ratified this convention. yet, in ireland last week, the health service executive were forced to apologise to the families of children across the country who cannot access disability services. earlier this year, inclusion ireland conducted a survey among families with children with disabilities. over 50 % of the families of children surveyed were not in receipt of any disability service. over 85 % of them have waited for over a year. how in god’s name can the irish government stand over this? and is there any way that the eu can actually pressure the irish government to do the right thing in the area of disabilities?
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, the eu’s proposal at cop to expand the loss and damage donor pool reinterprets what loss and damage is about. instead of recognising and acting on its historic responsibility, the rich developed countries want to shift the blame and get other countries that do not have even remotely the same history of emissions or the same emissions per capita to pay into the fund. it’s climate colonialism. the eu proposal was made knowing full well that china and other non—annex countries would never agree, because it does not respect the delineation of the unfccc annexes, which create the categories of developed and developing countries. research shows annex 1 countries are responsible for over 90% of historic emissions. according to the overseas development institute, the us’s fair share of climate finance is 43%, but the us pays a fraction of this, and getting the us to cough up is probably the biggest challenge for climate victims seeking justice. now, if we are to get money from countries like pakistan, countries which are the least responsible for the problems they are facing, suffering from the impacts of climate change, we’re going to have to actually dismantle bretton woods. we have to fix our financial system, because it’s broken as it stands.
madam president, executive vice—president timmermans, i compliment you on the role you played at cop, along with my colleague eamon ryan from ireland, to create the loss and damage fund. but we have created a vessel; we now have to fill it. the challenge in the years ahead is to find the funding and deliver it to the people that need it most. above all of this, we have these headline commitments; we’ve had them for 10, 20 years. we now have to dig down at a granular level, and those of us in public life must give the commitment to the decisions that are made in this parliament every day of the week on the files that we hold. and it’s all very well to be in favour of climate action in theory at a high level but to resist it in practice. that is the real challenge that we have: to communicate climate action not just in the rhetoric at these annual meetings – whether it be at cop15 in montreal, cop27 in sharm el—sheikh – but in the legislative files. and i fear that a lot of the commitment to climate action is skin deep. it goes as far as signing on the dotted line at a high level, but not delivering us in reality. and that, friends, is what we have to deliver in these rooms in the months and years ahead.
madam president, as we’ve had a lot of talk about lobbying today, let us register that the cop delegations were able to benefit from the advice of 636 representatives from the oil and gas industry. of course, surprise, surprise, the end deal had no mention of any phase—out of fossil fuels in the final decision. fossil fuels at the very heart of our global co2 emissions. but of course, the cop wasn’t a disaster for everyone. fourteen international gas agreements were sealed or announced. germany even signed a partnership with egypt for gas supplies on the eve of the world climate summit. and yes, we have had talk about the historic loss and damage fund. but seriously, usd 360 million? pakistan alone has suffered losses of usd 30 billion. globally, there has been usd 200 billion in costs of extreme weather this year alone. what happened to the promise in 2009 that there was going to be a fund of usd 100 billion a year by 2020? it’s very clear, capitalism is not going to solve the climate problem. we can’t rely on events sponsored by coca cola, the world’s biggest plastic producer. we need to take action ourselves.
madam president, i welcome the report. at the outset i think we have to look at rural europe from a very different perspective. for far too long we have been looking at as a theme park for people to visit and to look at from time to time. they are real communities with real people and we now have to accept that we have to do an awful lot more to ensure that the vibrancy of these communities is maintained into the future. obviously, agriculture is a critical cornerstone in ensuring rural development and rural communities are sustained, but we have to look beyond that. we have to embrace the digital technologies that are out there now. we have to put in place the infrastructure to ensure that there are quality jobs in rural communities across europe. one issue that never ceases to amaze me is that we consistently talk about ensuring that young people stay in rural ireland or in rural europe, but at the same time, they simply can’t provide houses in rural communities. they can’t get planning permissions. they can’t build sustainable environments. so we do need to look at the whole of rural communities across europe to ensure that we have young people, quality jobs, but at the same time that they can actually build a home in those communities and reside there into the future. otherwise, we will continue to lose young people to our cities, and rural communities will continue to degrade.
madam president, the commission’s long—term vision for rural areas is welcome. along with the cohesion policy, cap will be the main driver of the vision. but the vision contains a central weakness: there is no binding requirement for member states to integrate the objectives of the vision into their cap strategic plans. now, cap, of course, is fundamentally flawed in the first place. it’s a very unequal distribution system and it’s biased in favour of big agri and intensive farms and feedlots at the expense of small farms and family farms. europe has lost a third of its family farms between 2003 and 2013. it’s a frightening statistic. to help rural areas, we must stop industrial farm expansion by rebalancing the value chain for the benefit of farmers and by banning below—cost selling of food. building a new vision for rural areas should start with a radical change in agricultural and trade policy, and that should start with the abandoning of the mercosur agreement.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner vălean, the aviation sector has already recovered from the impact of covid-19, but two challenges remain – environmental and social. the ongoing race to the bottom on labour standards in the aviation sector is failing workers and passengers alike. this process started with accelerated liberalisation in the 1990s, making flying affordable and pervasive, but at a great cost. it has made working in the sector unattractive for many, and it causes capacity problems and serious disruption for passengers. and this is particularly true for ground handling. the race to the bottom brings safety risks as well, and this has been highlighted by easa. the commission, therefore, must urgently revise the air services regulation and the ground—handling directive in time for finalisation during the current mandate. we have to prioritise higher social standards.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, there are persistent challenges in the aviation sector, particularly for workers, and the commission has to take its responsibility for its part in that. for the past 15 years, the parliament has been calling for action to address the situation, but for all the words, there is very little to show for it. earlier this year, 13 members of the tran committee sent a letter to the commissioner’s cabinet reaffirming our strong support for regulation (ec) no 1008/2008 dealing with the social conditions for air crew. we were demanding legislative proposals by the end of this year to allow us to complete this revision in this mandate. what did we get? nothing. postponed; another impact assessment; it is not even on the commission’s work programme for 2023. so pilots and crew can look forward to the continuation of bogus self—employment, pay—to—fly, undeclared work, non-compliance with the posting legislation, and on and on. yes, covid had a huge impact, but there was precious little interest in workers’ rights before this. so you want to get your act together, or like the railway workers, aviation workers are going to have to take action.
madam president, please. i'm glad that this house is finally putting an issue on the agenda that directly affects our citizens. in the summer, when delays, cancellations, long waits and piles of suitcases were commonplace at airports, 46 of my colleagues and i asked the commission for a written reply. the board gave a deflective response and refused to address the question of how to enforce the relevant eu legislation with airlines, pointing to the national authorities. while the commission is not normally called upon to act beyond its powers, it has been covered by this plea. there's no point in european legislation if airlines can find their loopholes. so just to give you a concrete example, you can file a complaint, but even with a computer science degree, it's not easy to find out exactly where on an airline's website. i'm glad the commissioner has taken a more constructive approach to this debate. i call on the commission to uphold the rights of air passengers, to establish a system of claims clearance available in all member states, easily accessible and traceable by those concerned. passenger, we need a practical solution, not a new office. we cannot allow the chaos in air transport to continue indefinitely, and just a small remark: today we arrived in strasbourg from three cities at about the same time in the afternoon, and about fifteen of us lost our luggage.
madam president, madam commissioner, thank you very much for being here. the pandemic has hit all sectors hard, but especially the aviation sector, wreaking havoc on the fundamental right to mobility, which directly affects something that interests me very much, and my country very much, which is tourism. the energy crisis is now added to this. first of all, we must understand that it is an absolutely fundamental sector for social and economic development. aviation is an economic enabler and a driver of development. the challenge of sustainability and the green transition is not a threat, but it is a challenge. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security. we need time and resources to achieve the objectives of the package of measures objective 55. today we are still not able to produce significant quantities of sustainable aviation fuel (saf), and there is a supply problem which the market alone cannot solve and which will undoubtedly require significant investment. in addition, the level of indebtedness of airlines as a result of the pandemic is considerably high. the commitment of the epp group to the fight against climate change is undeniable, but we must clarify the price of the green transition in the aviation sector. we cannot reduce the competitiveness of our companies to the detriment of our economy, our citizens, or put hundreds of thousands of jobs in europe at risk. i would like to conclude by recalling the innumerable benefits that the aviation sector brings. so our efforts must be focused on making it work. if we do not do this, we will not only jeopardise the leading position of the european aviation sector, but also the fundamental right to free movement.
madam president, madam commissioner, air transport faces, after the pandemic, a huge challenge to survive and to do so by contributing to decarbonisation and with high safety standards, which are not compatible with the degradation of working conditions. this sector is key to our competitiveness, but it also brings coexistence and community building, affordable prices and freedom of movement that makes us fully aware and protagonists of our diversity. let us therefore consider ourselves faced with an opportunity which we will only seize if the rules which will guide the changes are based on dialogue and pragmatism. the sector needs us to focus public support on innovation in aviation technology, on the operation and management of flights, which continue to expect a true single sky, and on alternative fuels. and let us not forget that those most dependent on air transport - the outermost regions - need to see that reality recognised in the regulation of emissions trading for the sector. and why not? let us think of the internal connections in some of the rups as a privileged laboratory for testing the potential of new aeronautical technologies that can have there, in complete safety, by flight ranges, frequencies and mobility habits, their first commercial opportunities.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we’re all very concerned about the overloaded nature of our main airports. everybody in this chamber has experienced in the last 12 months the endless delays and the frustration coming through airports due to staff shortages and various other issues. a previous speaker suggested that the covid issues had passed. well today i spent five hours sitting on a plane in dublin airport on the ground because there was no capability to de-ice the plane. we were left with no food and we couldn’t leave the plane. we need to invest in resources to properly equip our airports so that situations like this don’t happen. we need to ensure that our ground staff are properly paid, resourced and trained so that they too can help this situation. i ask you, where were passengers’ rights in respect to this situation today? where were we or where are we being considered in this scenario? in ireland, 85% of the flights go through the main dublin airport. it quite simply can’t handle it all. we need to invest in our regional airports to ensure that they are built with proper capacity to handle additional aircraft. this would reduce congestion and would also lead to greater tourism in our regions. we also have to ensure that the like of saf and renewable technologies cannot be just the preserve of our hub airports. they need to be available to rural and indeed the regional airports. our last debate was about a long-term vision for rural areas, but i think we have to include our aviation strategy as regards the rural areas as well, because we need to ensure that connectivity to the regions is just as important as connectivity to our main cities.
madam president, i'll try to keep one minute. sustainable mobility is undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges of the next decade. we're facing huge impacts from the increasing traffic. people want to travel, they want to have services available, they travel for them, and so products and goods must flow. that represents really huge impacts and increases in emissions. both the environmental impacts, the health impacts, the impacts on biodiversity, they're huge. it is also important to underline that finding sustainable transport solutions for the 21st century is a legislative and strategic task. it's important to us that we bring legislation to this house that we will stand behind. i think this is one of the most important tasks we have, to find sustainable transportation solutions for the 21st century.
madam president, last summer we experienced chaos at the airports. the problems remain unresolved, and as another holiday season approaches, thousands of passengers are again affected and workers overworked. the option to lay off about 7 million workers during the pandemic compromised the ability to respond to the increase in operation. the commission, which is responsible for years of liberalisation in the aviation sector, a condition which is inevitably linked to this situation, is washing its hands like pilate. first they liberalized, now they are amazed at the evidence of the situation they have created. were miracles expected? the same commission, in the name of competition, shapes plans for the restructuring of flag carriers such as tap, for the benefit of certain operators. the distortion of the market, if it is in favour of low-cost and european aviation giants, is no longer a problem. now they are talking, as the commissioner has done here, about safety, but they are opening the way for an operation with only one pilot, which would jeopardise civil aviation safety. capital gains, public sector loses and state sovereignty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the air transport sector is not left behind.
madam president, the main reason airports are struggling to serve passengers properly is because of labour shortages. these labour shortages exist because airports and airlines have treated our workers so poorly for so long. the air travel crisis is the result of an aggressive cost-cutting measures by airlines and employers for the past 25 years to make the cost of labour as low as possible. this has reduced both the quality of work and the quantity of workers available. and this is not just an issue for airport workers; ground crew and baggage handlers, pilots and cabin crew are also affected. extreme liberalisation leads to a race to the bottom in airport security, in ground handling, in cabin crew. this fundamentally undermines workers’ wages, conditions and safety, as well as passenger safety. the race to the bottom is total madness, and it has to be reversed.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic has paralysed aviation. people cancelled flights, forcing airlines, airports and ancillary services to reduce activity and to lay off workers en masse. lack of manpower has led to new flight cancellations this summer. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport services agreement between ryanair and ams is in line with the meip. the escalation of the war in ukraine and sanctions imposed on russian companies are an additional problem. the key regulation that can solve problems related to airport capacity, emission reductions, fuel consumption, flight duration and price, single european sky 2+ is still blocked by the council after a decade of epp efforts to improve the aviation situation. i ask the commission to present a roadmap to tackle these problems, which affect an entire industry and eu citizens.
the agenda includes a brief presentation of the report by mr tardino on the action plan for the promotion of crossborder and long-distance rail passenger transport (2022/2022 (ini)) (a9-0242/2022)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report on the action plan to promote rail passenger transport on long-distance and cross-border routes is a clear step forward for passengers in the eu. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet decided on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. in addition, we want to establish english as the eu-wide working language for train drivers in long-distance and cross-border passenger transport. this would eliminate the need to speak the language of the member state through which you are travelling. we are also setting a standard for a fair and accessible market for all rail passenger transport operators. in particular, we have planned to reduce rail access charges for crossborder services and to make their calculation more transparent. this will ensure equal treatment of incumbents and new entrants. the improvement in the conditions of competition will lead to more competition, and passengers will be the main beneficiaries. so, again, thank you for the plan and thank you all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report shows that the european union can be very useful when it deals with concrete issues and cross-border cooperation, rather than imposing an ideology on all member states. unfortunately, we will only be able to speak about these useful subjects for about 20 minutes, and then we will again be able to lament for hours on subjects which are not within the competence of the european parliament. but back to the point. people love to travel and to experience other european countries and cultures, and international rail routes are needed to allow them to travel by train from one end of the continent to the other without hindrance. they cannot be defined by each country alone. cooperation is necessary on issues like this, and it can have powerful geopolitical implications. the railway network can also help croatia's southeastern neighbours to link up economically and socially with european countries. that is why the rapporteur has my full support.
madam president, i welcome the action plan and the parliament’s report. the report acknowledges that high-speed rail passenger volumes nearly doubled between 2001 and 2018 in the eu, proving that there is a demand for high-speed rail whenever it is provided. however, not all rail services in the eu are equal. ireland has seen very little improvement in rail service in the same period. the rosslare to waterford line closed. waterford’s the only city in the country that does not have trains arriving in the city before 9 o’clock in the morning. the rosslare to dublin line has been managed into decline. ireland’s rail system is almost exclusively a set of radial lines running to and from dublin with minimal direct interconnectivity between towns and cities outside of dublin. if you arrive in rosslare harbour from france or from the uk, you have to go to dublin first before you go anywhere else. that’s crazy.
madam president, a total of 187 medicines used by irish patients are currently in shortage or out of stock, according to the list maintained by the health products regulatory authority, including 11 that feature on the world health organisation’s critical medicines list. this is a very serious issue for doctors and pharmacies, but above all else for the people who depend on these medicines. one of the main challenges ireland faces is that of these 187 medicines, 40% are provided by a single supplier, meaning that pharmacies have no alternative to purchase from elsewhere. this is compared to the eu average of 25%. for example, two very important antibiotics, amoxicillin and penicillin, are on this list. ireland is currently facing some of the very serious challenges with regard to strep a, and this needs to be addressed. we need a solution that works for all member states. we need to move to a system whereby member states have a single unified process of approvals, authorisation, purchasing and reimbursement. i appreciate that member states have varying purchasing abilities, but our current system actually enables certain pharmaceutical companies to pick and choose those who they supply first, depending on the price they are willing to pay
madam president, i would like to thank you. the sweden democrats warned from the beginning that the corona fund was not a temporary measure. because with the eu, nothing is temporary. you give the eu a finger, they take the whole hand. for each crisis, the eu looks to gain more power. although parts of the billions of the corona fund have not been distributed yet, there is already talk of a new fund, the so-called sovereignty fund. it went faster than the sweden democrats thought. this is not sustainable. the eu must move from being a contribution union, wasting taxpayers' money, to a more sustainable, competitive union, where important reforms are actually put into practice. the power must go back to the member states and the eu must stop thinking that the solution to all problems is more power for brussels. it is time to put an end to waste and centralization once and for all.
president. - the european parliament building in brussels has a stability problem and is literally sinking into the swamp. last week, the plans for the redevelopment were presented. a megalomaniac structure of glass and steel should pull parliament out of the quagmire and give it more allure. cost of the project: it's easily one billion euros. we are now in strasbourg, the official seat of the european parliament, in a state-of-the-art parliament building, with all the comforts. it's only used 48 days a year. the rest of the year, it's empty. as if the €200 million annual relocation circus were not enough, the european parliament wants to spend another €1 billion on a building 450 kilometres away. mr. president, this is ridiculous. that's why i'm proposing this: the european parliament is moving to strasbourg permanently. save billions in taxpayer money and give the brussels buildings back to the swamp.
madam president, last thursday, we attended the appeal hearing in lesvos of two afghan refugees, amir zahiri and akif razuli, against a 50-year sentence given to them for smuggling when they were simply passengers on a boat from turkey seeking refuge in greece. a boat which the greek coastguard attempted to push back and damaged; a journey which ended with them spending almost three years in jail for a crime which the court admitted there was no evidence against razuli and barely a clear against zahiri. an appeal which took four visits to the court, including a delay of eight months at one stage to get a coast guard present, and in the end he didn’t show up at all. so while i welcome the fact that they are now free, it is an outrage that migrants continue to be criminalised and tortured in greece. it’s against the un protocol against smuggling. thousands upon thousands remain in greek jails for the so-called crime of ‘boat driving’. this is an abomination. when is the eu going to call greece to account and respect and observe fundamental rights? this is your europe. this is your values.
madam president, in latin america in the past week we’ve seen politically motivated lawfare against argentina vice-president cristina fernandez and a right-wing coup against the president of peru, pedro castillo. the eu shows its true colours in the face of these events, just as it did when they supported the illegal military coup against morales in 2019 in bolivia. if the leader had been overthrown, convicted or imprisoned as an indigenous or a socialist, that means order has been restored and lies are repeated to justify the anti-democratic actions. if the leader losing out is white, a capitalist oligarch, a far-right racist or a descendant of colonialists and dictators, the eu is up in arms. crushing sanctions must be imposed, assets frozen and calls for new elections abound. the corrupt white settler elites and cronies of the political west must be kept in power at all costs. the voice of the people is only respected when it suits. european leaders and capitalist elites do not seem to give a damn about democracy.
madam president, alex saab was illegally detained in cape verde in june 2020 and subsequently transferred to the united states in october 2021. this detention, which has been going on for more than two years in clear violation of international law, is yet another example of the interference, destabilization, pressure and blackmail of the united states against the bolivarian republic of venezuela and its people. this action also includes the illegal and unilateral sanctions, or the so-called plan of democratic transition for venezuela promoted by the united states, which constitute acts of frontal disrespect for the rights and sovereignty of the venezuelan people. and why was alex saab arrested? for being a diplomat who sought to ensure the conditions for the development of venezuela and for the improvement of the living conditions of venezuelans that the united states sanctions are intended to condition and prevent. we hereby express our solidarity with venezuela and its people, who are defending their sovereignty and independence, and we demand the release of alex saab and an end to the policy of interference and destabilisation by the united states.
madam president, please. all indications are that the most brutal attempt to influence democratic elections to date was carried out by a coalition of hungarian opposition parties, which received billions of forints in campaign funds from abroad ahead of the april elections. three times what they get from the hungarian state under democratic and transparent conditions. these dollars are embedded in the politics of the left, in their statements, in their speeches, in the information they give you. they paint a very bad picture of my country for the benefit of those who are trying to buy votes with these dollars. it's time to face the fact that many of you have listened to the lies of the representatives of the hungarian left-wing dollar and have made absurd accusations about the work of the hungarian government. and the corruption scandal that has just broken out in the european parliament has shown that the left can be bought, whether it is hungarian or european.
that concludes the point. the sitting is adjourned until tomorrow, tuesday, 13 december 2022, at 9.00 a.m.
the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this sitting will be tabled for approval by parliament tomorrow in the early afternoon.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. it is not a great pleasure to be the first speaker to try to re-enter the technical debate after these terrible events. but of course we must put that aside now, because we must concentrate on the legislative work. the people expect us to fight corruption vigorously, but they also expect us to develop renewable energy vigorously. this energy transition must be speeded up, and it requires preconditions. if we want to get away from fossil fuels, if we want to get away from unilateral dependencies, if we want more european energy sovereignty, if we want to diversify energy imports and if we want the whole thing to be affordable for people and businesses, then renewable energy is the way to go. it's possible if we do it right. because the sun, the wind, the water, the renewable resources, they don't charge. they are available indefinitely. they could be our main energy source by now. so why are we only at 20% renewable? well, because we're making it too complicated. because bureaucracy and ideology stand in the way. five points for that: if you want renewable energy, you have to make green hydrogen possible. the way the commission is doing this with additionality is a no-go for investors. it is a no-go for countries that want to export green hydrogen to europe. we need green hydrogen, but not hydrogen with a gold rim. secondly, if we want renewables, we must give them a high priority in the public interest, including climate neutrality, and not just for the next seven years, ladies and gentlemen of the environment committee. thirdly, if we want to develop renewable energy, we must approve its development more quickly and pragmatically - hence the areas of acceleration we have proposed. if administrative procedures take too long, the building applications must be approved automatically after a certain period. i would like to thank all the members for agreeing to a positive silence. fourthly, if you want renewable energy, you cannot put a single field mouse in front of the onshore wind farm. if the field mouse population in europe is not at risk, there must be discretion in the fad directive. the council and commission proposals are not clear enough. there are lawsuits from ngos, some of whom are against everything anyway. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs. i would ask you to support the epp amendment. and last but not least fifthly, if we are serious about the energy transition, we must also allow the go-to areas, the acceleration areas, in certain natura 2000 areas. in many regions of europe, this is the only way. we have 50% of natura 2000 sites in the federal states alone, and if we want renewable energy, we have to allow certain installations there. we share the goal of speeding up the approval process. i hope that, despite the tactical proposals now being put forward by all the groups, we will reach workable compromises in the vote on wednesday. i'm confident, even from the talks today. we have always succeeded with the renewable energy directive, with red. we work together as a team, with trust. and yes, sun and wind don't send a bill. and if human regulation allows it, renewables can also be cheaply available to people and businesses.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – madam president, mr timmermans, i start with a very personal comment i just told the commissioner. i’ve usually been fairly critical of his deeds, but i have to say that i was very proud of what he did in sharm el—sheikh. i think it actually is worth the wait, i applaud. then to the issue. russia has forced us into a position where we need to find more energy and quickly. having said that, to ensure that will be much more difficult. that means that we have to take environmental law and threats of biodiversity very seriously. it means also that we need to ensure that temporary emergency measures are temporary and they are not something we do and then it goes on forever. but at the same time, we need to know that it’s not always easy. member states have very different energy mixes. member states have very different natural circumstances. member states have very difficult and different policies. also in this case, you know the rule, one size does not fit all.
executive vice—president of the commission. – madam president, with repowereu, the commission has set out how to respond best to russia’s weaponisation of our energy supply. we see high energy prices continuing and the winter cold starting to bite in earnest, as we all noticed this morning, so we must continue deploying the necessary measures to help our citizens and businesses to make it through not only this winter, but also the next and the next winters. however, we also need to continue working on what is the only fundamental solution to the situation that we are in, which is a faster deployment of renewable energy. renewables are and remain the cheapest source of energy and they are home grown. they are exactly what we need. but a faster rollout of renewables will not happen if we do not seriously tackle the factors that slow down the pace of permitting for the solutions, in particular new or re—powered renewable power plants. that’s why i think today’s debate is so important. if we want to accelerate the deployment of renewables, we must streamline radically the administrative procedures to approve renewable projects together with member states, who will need to act in parallel. i want to thank this parliament very much for the speedy review of our proposal to speed up the permitting. i also want to thank parliament for its broad support for the measures that we proposed. several of your amendments would strengthen our proposal. i am very grateful, for instance, for your proposed shortening of permitting deadlines both within and outside the so—called go—to areas, the areas where we want to simplify permitting so that one comprehensive permit allows for renewable projects to go there without separate permits being needed. ambitious deadlines for approval can obviously make a huge difference, but shorter deadlines will do little if national authorities do not have the tools to deliver. so we also welcome your proposals to reinforce the staffing and skilling of the competent national authorities to get speedier permitting done. the same goes for your amendments to speed up the permitting for the underlying energy grids. let me turn to the emergency regulation that we proposed on 9 november to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy already during the energy crisis. this crisis is urgent and is getting more urgent every day. if some elements for renewables deployment can be accelerated now, we should do that. the proposal includes those parts of the repowereu that we believe are less controversial but can accelerate the permitting within the timeframe of the crisis. it can be the bridge until the permanent solutions on permitting in the renewable energy directive are agreed by parliament and council and implemented in the national legal systems. the commission very much welcomes that parliament didn’t wait for the permanent solutions entirely, but now seeks to include elements from the emergency regulation on permitting into the repowereu proposal, making them permanent. let me also, however, mention amendments that trigger concern. the selection of the location for biomass combustion plants simply does not depend on the renewable energy potential in the same way as wind and solar. to put it simply, biomass combustion plants can be built anywhere. that is why the commission proposed to exclude such plants from go—to areas contrary to what some amendments now put forth. on the other hand, excluding new hydropower plants from go—to areas does not seem proportionate as suitable go—to areas can be identified where there would be no significant environmental impact. the commission regrets the amendments making the tacit approval of projects voluntary. we understand your concerns, but our proposal already includes safeguards. we are, for instance, excluding tacit approval where a project is subject to an environmental impact assessment. tacit approval would give a much needed incentive for the member states to reinforce staffing in permitting authorities. this commission is committed to an open and meaningful dialogue with parliament on the ways to overcome the energy crisis. it is extremely important that you feel involved and this college will use all avenues available to discuss it with you. and also my doors are always open for this discussion. the faster deployment of renewables is the only fundamental way to get out of the energy crisis, together, of course, with saving energy, reducing our energy use. i will work hand—in—hand and with you to get us there.
the committee on agriculture has drawn up an opinion. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you to the rapporteur for her work on the repower initiative. the russian invasion of ukraine has prompted the eu to re-examine its energy system. the european union must increase its security of supply and energy independence and must move away from fossil fuels as quickly as possible. the production and licensing of renewable energy must therefore be promoted by all possible means. we have lived through one crisis after another, and instability affects us all because production chains are global. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: europe must have all the critical activities and production that should not be built in individual countries. the message from the committee on agriculture is strong. the eu cannot afford to leave bioenergy out of the faster-moving mandates, especially now that the energy crisis has hit every citizen and the security of supply of society as a whole. for example, biogas from agricultural by-products has enormous potential which must be exploited. the eu needs to set a binding biogas production target and work much, much harder to achieve it. this will benefit primary production, consumers and society as a whole.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, executive vice-president, dear colleagues, we are living very sad days and we have to clean our houses as soon as possible. and at the same time we have to continue to serve our mandate. as part of the repowereu package, this house makes today another step forwards towards europe’s energy independence from fossil fuel. a large bundle of measures are intended to lower dependence on russian fossil fuels, reduce co2 emissions and accelerate the expansion of renewables. today we sent another clear message to all third parties who consider that europe is being blackmailed. we are now having a close eye to the end-consumers: trying to avoid the imposition of extra burdens, charges and red tape. what matters at this very stage is that member states shall bear the responsibility to implement as fast as possible the acceleration schemes of legislation that we are voting. the overall target of increasing the renewable energy sources’ sale to 45% by 2030 stands as the sole opportunity to accelerate even further the efforts for further rapid deployment of renewables, but with significant improvements on the appropriate infrastructure and development of the grid. at the same time, the identification and promotion of go-to areas for renewable energy infrastructure and the recognition of renewable energy as an overriding public interest stands as a unique opportunity but it needs to be seized. it is important to underline that permitting granting process shall not exceed the six months in renewable go-to areas, the executive vice-president has already mentioned. finally, importantly, is that in order to facilitate the development of roof-top solar. member states must remove all administrative burdens, improving significantly the conditions for photovoltaic systems up to 50 kilowatts in size. member states need to take up fast implementation decisions in this direction. dear colleagues, we need to act with fast and efficient steps. but, last and not least, the council needs to proceed with a realistic compromise on the correction mechanism and to come all together to political agreement. it is an essential instrument to our societies in this difficult window.
for the renew group. madam president, we need much more green electricity in europe and we need to do much better at saving energy. we need it to meet our climate targets and we need it to free ourselves from putin's iron grip on europe's energy supply. and in that way, renewable energy and energy efficiency have become top-of-the-line security policy, and that's why we need faster permits to expand. there are many people who want to build on the north sea and the baltic sea. there are investors and consortia who are reluctant to get started, and they need permits to expand. that's why go-to areas are good. it is important to say that "go-to areas" must not mean that everything else is "no-go-to areas". it is good to have deadlines, so these are good things we are doing here today and we can do even more. so let today also be the beginning of negotiating a really good building directive to save energy and get rid of putin's gas. it's a good day. these are important steps in the green transition.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, executive vice-president timmermans, our shadow rapporteur, ville niinistö, could not be here today as he is heading to the biodiversity cop in montreal. but he asked me to say a few words on his behalf. this limited revision of the renewable energy directive stemming from the repowereu package of may aims at simplifying and shortening the administrative permit-granting processes applicable to renewable energy projects, related storage and grid connections. this is necessary to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy, especially in the face of the current energy crisis and the need to stop using fossil fuels as soon as possible. we are happy to see stricter timelines for permit-granting and obliging member states to ensure sufficient staff resources to make the shorter permit times doable. for our group, fighting the climate and biodiversity crises are crucial. we cannot just do one at the cost of the other. they should be solved together. and the compromises are a delicate balance in this aspect and close to the commission’s proposal. but we must also ensure that the rights of the public enshrined in the aarhus convention on access to information, public involvement in decision-making and access to justice are upheld in these revisions. we also welcomed the introduction of some of the measures from the council’s emergency regulation on permitting into the renewable energy directive, especially the even quicker permit-granting for heat pumps and solar installations in the built environment. these are low-hanging fruit in the energy transition that also bring direct benefits to people, reducing their expensive fossil fuel bills while transitioning to renewable energy sources. and i’ve incorporated some of this into the energy performance of buildings directive. so we need to knit all of this together. in conclusion, mep ville niinistö would like to thank the rapporteur and shadows for their cooperation, and hopes to close this file quickly in the new year based on a strong epp mandate.
a uachtaráin, permitting and licensing procedures remain one of the biggest hurdles in achieving mass deployment of renewable technologies. procedures differ in member states. we have more cross-border cooperation on complex energy projects. without action, we would likely see more and more unnecessary time wasted in getting the required bureaucracy in order. in the renewable energy directive, i tabled an amendment to introduce a fit for 55 label for public interest renewable energy projects, which would allow the granting of a priority status in national law for such projects and thus speed up the whole permitting and planning process. the war has changed the trajectory of eu energy policy and there is now a much greater need to ensure our regulatory framework can react to our needs. this legislation certainly goes in the right direction and it includes many positive aspects. however, in order to unblock the pipeline of projects that are waiting for approval, existing permitting procedures should also be considered to be of overriding public interest. this is hugely important.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr timmermans, you were quite right in your opening statement when you said that there is no energy that is cheaper than renewable energy. in fact, and this has been stated many times here, they are the answer to the price crisis that russia has caused by its war - if only we had them. we need renewable energy plus hydrogen as a storage medium, and we need it as soon as possible. it is therefore right that we should ensure that the approval procedures are speeded up without completely eliminating nature conservation. and then there is the christian-democratic group. not only are you completely breaking down the barriers to nature conservation - which you never really liked - but you are also trying to question the decisions that were reached last summer by sneaking in behind closed doors, which you don't really like either. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
madam president, mr vice-president, we discussed this morning the fourth revision of the renewable energy directive, before the third is even agreed and adopted. this new proposal is a response, as we know, to the energy crisis caused by the crisis in ukraine and aims to further accelerate the deployment of renewable energies in the european union. the objective of using renewable energy in final consumption in 2030 is proposed to be 45%. however, its added value does not lie in proposing a larger objective but in proposing measures that contribute to achieving it. i would like to mention two of them which i consider to be fundamental: the first is the commitment to regulatory testing environments which enable the development of innovative technologies in the field of renewable energy; the second is the reduction of bureaucratic burdens and of the maximum time for the national authorities to issue the necessary permits. in the identified areas, the issuing of permits for the production of energy from renewable sources may not be delayed for more than nine months. both measures should also be applied to other areas which are very necessary for growth and competitiveness, and not just to this renewable energy issue, which is nevertheless so important.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the energy transition can only succeed if we massively expand renewable energy. why isn't it moving faster? the approval process takes too long. we'll start here. the directive we are now adopting this week can achieve exactly that, namely to speed up procedures. i thank our rapporteur, mr markus pieper, and all those who have helped to launch this directive here. when we talk about renewable energy, what are we talking about? are we just talking about wind and solar? no, i think that's wrong. especially in times when we have an energy supply like we have now. renewable energy is not just wind and solar, but also biomass, hydropower and geothermal energy. we cannot discriminate against any form of renewable energy. there can be no first- and second-class renewable energy. hydropower and biomass are permanently available, inexpensive and versatile. we must take them into account in europe's energy transition, as we must take solar and wind energy.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think anyone is disputing the need, the necessity, of this directive on renewable energy, energy efficiency in buildings, but, especially in the context of the global energy crisis, we need a balanced energy system. every country has a different energy mix, and we have to think about how we're going to get the bills to the citizen. that's what matters: lower bills, that's what matters to the citizens. and i think we have to, as has been said here, simplify the bureaucracy. they're extremely expensive, after all, all the permits and all the red tape. then there needs to be more dialogue for the right understanding of the advantage of renewable energy and, of course, we need to see how we can rush the permits, because after all, from regulation to implementation to effect, the road is too long. i therefore strongly believe that there is much to be done in implementing this directive, but it is necessary.
madam president, we need to fast track renewables, that’s not in doubt. but the commission’s attempt to enshrine into eu law the principle that renewables should be considered a matter of overriding public interest sets a dangerous precedent. the proposal takes a sledgehammer to the eu environmental standards. it will roll back hugely important protections under the environmental impact assessment directive and the birds and habitats directive. this is environmental deregulation; it’s a backdoor attempt to water down environmental protections. environmental legislation is not an obstacle to the deployment of renewables. we are in the middle of a sixth mass extinction. there is no justification to scrap key environmental assessments. finally, it’s ridiculous that storage facilities for gas should be privileged in the so-called go—to areas. these areas are supposed to be about fast tracking renewables. there are zero excuses for waiving environmental protections for gas storage facilities.
madam president, (start of speech off mic) ... renewables is urgent for many, many reasons: the war in ukraine and our dependence on fossil fuels from russia, and the long-term aim of ensuring that our planet survives. from that perspective, it would be a shame if it was the failure of public administrations in member states across the european union to implement and allow permitting and planning for repowereu. there’s no doubt that we do need to transform. we need to transform quickly and efficiently. and speeding up the planning and permitting process does not mean that you have to jeopardise the habitats directive, the water directive and other directives that protect the environment. this is significantly important and we have to hold member states to account to ensure that they invest in their public administration, that they get the resources for the public administration to ensure that they can assess planning permissions and permitting quickly and efficiently. we cannot wait any longer, mr timmermans, and i would ask that you ensure that all member states are held to account to ensure public services in the area of permitting and planning are funded and resourced efficiently.
mr president, i know it’s shocking to read news of police investigations into the work of an elected official and staff of parliament. it is shocking to me and incredibly shocking to our eu citizens. and it is important that due process is followed. today, in strasbourg, i, along with 624 meps, voted for an early termination of the office of vice-president of the parliament eva kaili. the public should be able and needs to be able to trust the work of us meps and parliament’s staff. at the end of the day, we are elected by the public for the public to carry out our work in public interest and are answerable to the people. that is our job. corruption of any nature has no place in our political landscape here or in our member states. i welcome any internal investigations and improved procedures to uphold the reputation of our eu institutions. we need to be transparent, to be accountable, and to do what is right. i stand for a strong europe, a fair europe, and a trusted europe.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, dear commissioner johansson, honourable members of parliament, on 5 october this year, the czech presidency stated here that the completion of the schengen area, by including in the area without internal border controls all member states who fulfil the conditions, was a priority for us. we are very pleased that during our presidency, croatia was able to take this important step by joining the schengen area without internal border controls and i would like to congratulate our croatian colleagues for reaching such a milestone. we have also stated that the czech presidency was committed to making progress so as to enable bulgaria and romania to be fully part of the schengen area. significant progress was made during this semester, and we commend both countries for all their work and efforts in this respect. two fact-finding missions to bulgaria and romania were carried out by member states’ experts under the coordination of the commission. the council informed the european parliament of these developments, including of the results of the two fact-finding missions, in writing earlier this month. the presidency concluded that both bulgaria and romania are ready to fully enter the schengen area and appreciated their key role in the protection of the external borders, as well as their substantial contribution to the security of the schengen area in general. the presidency is convinced that bulgaria and romania put in place all the necessary tools, structures and procedures. therefore, they deserve to become full members of schengen. at the justice and home affairs council meeting on 8 december, the proposed draft council decision that would allow for lifting the internal borders controls in bulgaria and romania from 1 january 2023 has not, unfortunately, gained the unanimous support as required. work will continue on this basis to ensure that we can welcome bulgaria and romania into the schengen family in the near future. the council remains committed to continuing this work in the next semester, and the upcoming swedish presidency has already expressed the determination to continue these efforts. the schengen area is one of the greatest achievements of our union. in recent years, it has been under considerable strain and considerable efforts were and still are required to ensure the resilience of the schengen area. we remain convinced that the completion of the schengen area by fully including bulgaria and romania would constitute another key milestone in its functioning, mainly in terms of improving the overall functioning of the eu’s external borders.
member of the commission. – mr president, schengen is the largest free travel area in the world, an area of freedom, security and justice, bringing liberty, prosperity, and identity because schengen is part of who we are. so i say to the people of croatia ‘welcome’, my warmest congratulations. you will start a new year as members of the euro and members of schengen. but when it comes to the decision on bulgaria and romania, i need to express my deep disappointment. i deeply regret the council did not take a positive decision. especially, since it has long been the commission’s view that bulgaria and romania fulfil all the criteria to be full members of the schengen area, for more than 11 years already. and as two recent voluntary fact—finding missions have confirmed, bulgaria and romania are upholding schengen standards of border protection and security, and are doing so efficiently, reliably, honourably. all these years, bulgaria and romania helped build a well—functioning schengen area, dealing effectively with the pandemic and with the fallout of putin’s war. romania and bulgaria are doing an incredible job in managing the consequences of the war in ukraine. bulgaria provides temporary protection to around 150 000 ukrainian refugees. 2.5 million people from ukraine entered into romania this year so far, receiving support and assistance. i saw for myself at the siret border crossing the endless lines of women and children, tired and afraid, and the border guards making sure they could cross swiftly and orderly and in a secure way. bulgaria and romania have highly trained and dedicated staff, state of the art infrastructure, and know-how. they have done the work. they are ready. they deserve to be in. more than that, it is a legal obligation and they have a legitimate expectation to join. these are the rules. and schengen too is ready. this is not the schengen of 2011, but a stronger schengen. with new schengen governance around dedicated schengen councils, with a key role for the european parliament. welcoming bulgaria and romania will remain my main priority. i’m determined to make this happen. this is important for the citizens of romania and bulgaria. we will continue to work hard together with the council to welcome bulgaria and romania next year. and i know that i can count on the continued support of the european parliament. we need bulgaria and romania in schengen, like we need croatia and all its other members. i am the first to say, there are challenges in the european union, but we must not confuse them with the schengen enlargement criteria. challenges related to migration, to security, to the rule of law exist. yes, they do. and we are addressing them with european solutions on all fronts. fighting organised crime – one of my top priorities – we gave europol a stronger mandate, we are boosting police cooperation. we fight corruption and uphold the rule of law with our strong rule of law mechanism. we respond to migration challenges with very operational plans. just last week, we presented a new action plan on the western balkans. and one very positive result of last week’s council, thanks to the leadership of the czech presidency, is the clear progress on the pact on migration and asylum, with negotiations on important files that we hope to close this week here in strasbourg. delaying bulgaria and romania entering schengen will not make it easier to address these shared challenges. quite the contrary, welcoming bulgaria and romania will make us stronger, safer and protect all borders better. by moving border guards and resources from internal borders to protect the eu external border, connecting bulgaria and romania to schengen security databases, stepping up police cooperation and information exchange, cross—border surveillance and hot pursuit. and regular comprehensive schengen evaluations will make sure standards remain high. the truth is simple; to fight crime and corruption and manage migration together we need bulgaria and romania in. their membership will also bring a much needed boost to the internal market by eliminating time lost at borders and by boosting travel, trade and tourism. so we all lost in the vote last week. there is only one winner, and he lives in the kremlin. and i know december is the season of giving, but i should say no presents for putin. honourable members, divided we are weak, united we are strong. as a union, we must now welcome bulgaria and romania to schengen as we promised, as they deserve, as it’s only right. if we don’t, then we are playing into russia’s hands, allowing division, disunity and discord to spread. but if we do welcome them, then we all win. we will all benefit from greater security and prosperity. and we should show the world that at a time of our greatest need, europe stands together.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. last week's veto was a mistake. and we all feel the frustration of analysing this error in the debate today. i would like to thank the commissioner for the strong words which have guided the debate today. the first point i would like to make is respect. respect for the three states, that they have achieved a lot. in particular, romania and bulgaria have shown in recent years what proper border control means, what implementation of schengen law means. the romanians, for example, have done a tremendous job in helping the ukrainian refugees, and that is something to be acknowledged. the second thing to say is that schengen is part of europe's identity. it is in times of war that we must show unity, we must show solidarity. the schengen enlargement would have meant: we believe in ourselves, we believe in what we as europeans benefit from together. third: yes, there is a problem with illegal immigration. yes, the reception centres in austria, germany, belgium, the netherlands are full. we have to fight illegal immigration, no question about it. but we'll do better if we do it together, if we protect borders, improve returns and defeat trafficking gangs. i would like to say explicitly that bulgaria and romania are not to blame for these high numbers of illegal migrants. it is the frontex figures that prove that the two countries do not represent the western balkans route. it is hungary that we should be talking about. because, unfortunately, viktor orbán has opened his borders. that is the real problem with illegal immigration. the fourth point i would like to make is that the decisions taken by the netherlands and austria were a mistake. bulgaria and romania have the same right to live in a united europe as we are allowed to live. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only then can the points be implemented. the european people's party, as the largest group and the largest party in europe, supports bulgaria and romania on their way to the european schengen area. the veto was wrong and the romanian people can count on our support.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. for us greens, freedom of movement in europe and solidarity are of the utmost importance. the schengen agreement is, as has been said, a great achievement and not a bargaining chip. it means protecting freedom of movement and is one of the pillars of the european union. this symbol of european integration must not be reduced to a mere figure. i am also here as an austrian member of the european parliament and i would like to express my solidarity with my colleagues from bulgaria and romania. the greens do not understand, either at european or national level, the decision of the austrian minister of the interior to block the schengen enlargement to include romania and bulgaria. we don't share his view. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the the left group. – mr president, last week, as a result of the work of the lighthouse reports, we saw bulgarian border guards shooting a syrian teenager. we heard shocking reports of eu funds being used to lock migrants in an open cage while frontex stands idly by. pushbacks are routine; violence is systemic. then we hear that bulgaria and romania’s accession to schengen is being blocked by austria and the netherlands as a result of the situation on the border – not because of the persecution and brutalisation of migrants, but because that brutality is not enough. you couldn’t make it up. this is frontex europe, fortress europe – a core of greedy racists farming out its dirty work to the poor of europe’s periphery, a violent continent selfishly guarding its stolen wealth. the people of bulgaria and romania have waited 10 years to join schengen. let them in. stop demanding more violence as a condition of entry. schengen membership should not be paid in migrants blood.
mr president, colleagues, because the idea of elected meps travelling to the west bank was too much for israel, i was not allowed into palestine earlier this year, but recently i stopped in to izz cafe run by izz and eman in cork city. they’ve set up a community and made a business, and like most palestinians abroad, going home is almost impossible. the coming far—right government in tel aviv will undoubtedly make this even worse for palestinians while they curtail the rights of women and minorities in israel. we have come down hard on far—right movements here, most recently in germany. a far—right government in tel aviv cannot be let off the hook. europe must cut funding to israel, end all arms exports, end trade with illegal settlements, and build a palestinian state now.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the two-state solution remains a priority objective for which the union must continue to work proactively, in the interests of israel and the palestinians and of the region as a whole. in this context, we should pay greater attention to the regional aspect and the external factors affecting negotiations on a viable and sustainable two-state solution, and in particular the role of iran as a regional power. we criticize this country - including sanctions - for its repression of protesters, its disregard for human rights, its executions, its taking of european citizens hostage, its military supplies and cooperation with russia, its nuclear ambitions, and so on. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. iran is deliberately and deliberately exerting influence in the region in a way that makes this peace process much more difficult. we must not ignore this in our approach to iran, and we might ask ourselves whether tehran's share in the impasse over the peace process should not also be brought into the negotiations on the joint comprehensive plan of action, in so far as this agreement can be revived.
the situation there is very complex, mr president, and i think that requires a certain amount of restraint on the part of outsiders. but at the same time, the question is: israel wants a two-state solution? if i see that under netanyahu the wind has been blowing in the right direction in recent years, that important solution seems further away than ever. i'm also disappointed in jewish settlers who so often attack palestinians. and if there are israeli police, they often look the other way. palestinians have sometimes lived there for generations and have yet to leave their land. their houses and olive trees are regularly destroyed. that's land that's destined for that second state that's coming. it's being taken there by force and unlawfully. and, mr president, i am thinking in particular of the palestinian christians. i want to say something explicitly about that. they're between a rock and a hard place. israel wants to see palestinian families leave the west bank, but at the same time muslims want to get rid of the christians there and want to sell the land of the christians there. president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: and let that be the message of christmas, that there can be real peace there, with the two-state solution as the solution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the right-wing nationalists are growing in israel, the palestinian authority is in a serious crisis in the west bank and hamas is holding civilians hostage in gaza. in the face of this lack of policy and the escalation of violence in israel and palestine, europe cannot simply condemn but must now bring about a just peace for the peoples involved. the resolution we are voting on tomorrow goes in this direction: the european union is a political union, a political union of two peoples and two states with jerusalem as the sole capital, following the 1967 borders. the illegal israeli occupation of the west bank must end, as must the blockade of gaza, and at the same time action must be taken against hamas, which still calls for the destruction of israel and commits terrorist acts of anti-semitic origin. i am convinced that the european union, by taking the lead in a new international conference, can and must finally be the decisive diplomatic actor in relaunching a genuine peace process between israel and palestine.
mr president, of course we all want peace for the middle east, and we want to have a two—state solution – or even one—state solution, as was discussed at some point. but then again, what is the real situation and what do we do as a union? while israel does not respect the un resolution and internationally—committed borders, while israel is expanding illegal settlements and barely having any room left for the palestinians, it looks like we would almost be waiting for the palestinian area to diminish and disappear. what do we do when israelis are preventing gaza people to travel, to work and even from getting medical help? well, we intensify our economic and scientific relations with the israelis and, the latest, we engage ourselves to deepen police cooperation. how do we deal with russia when it has one partial attack in europe? where do we see the economic sanctions against israel? where do we see the strong stopping of any bilateral cooperation with israel? being non—partial and balanced does not mean closing up the eyes and being blind.
mr president, to be a credible mediator in the middle east, our union must acknowledge the complexity of the israeli-palestinian conflict and be the guarantor of a farsighted vision, far from any manichaeism. our determination must be guided by our desire to be useful in resolving this tragic conflict and faithful to the defence of our democratic values. at a time when we are collectively faced with the danger of foreign interference and the need to preserve our independence to have a useful and constructive voice, let us open our eyes. to be useful for peace in the middle east, we must denounce the countries that finance terrorism, such as qatar and iran. to be useful for peace in the middle east, we must be more vigilant towards countries that fund media that demonize israel, such as aj+, the media of the al jazeera group for youth, funded by qatar - always him - which presents itself as a progressive media, but supports the most rigorous islam. the media is hypocrisy to the point of accusing israel of supporting lgbt rights only to cover up the israeli-palestinian conflict, when israel is the only country in the region where lgbt people can live safely. don't look, you won't find anything that denounces one of the most homophobic policies on the planet, that of qatar, which provides for seven years in prison for foreigners and the death penalty for natives.
mr president, (start of speech off mic) sustainable, permanent cease-fire, the lifting of the blockade in gaza and the establishment of a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders. but let’s be very clear; while we talk, israel is systematically dismantling palestine. if you look at any map from jenin in the north to hebron in the south, there is no longer a contiguous, functioning palestinian state. we talk about it in the abstract – occupation. this is an illegal invasion of palestinian lands. it is a breach of international law, it is a breach of un charters, it is a breach of fundamental rights and it is a breach of basic decency. so europe does have to act. and we will pass resolutions, we will condemn in soft language, but we will do nothing to advance this two-state solution. if no more, if we would only ban the produce coming from the illegally occupied areas, it would send a message to both israel and palestine that we are serious about the two-state solution. we want to ensure that palestine survives and that israel has security as well. but we cannot sit idly by and let it dismantle palestine as it is.
mr. president, i have to go. to demolish apartheid, not the homes and schools of palestine. to demolish the israeli apartheid in occupied palestine. this cruel system of domination is a crime against humanity. two states are needed to put an end to the denial of the fundamental rights of the palestinians, who face very difficult living conditions. the two-state solution requires recognition of the human rights of the palestinians and the repeal of segregationist laws and the geographical hegemony of israel. any peace talks must be accompanied by an end to settlement expansion. europe must not be complicit, it must condition cooperation policies to put an end to these crimes. all solidarity with palestine.
mr president, the two-state solution has been used as a smokescreen to fake concern for the human rights of palestinians, while leaving the israelis to pursue their genocidal treatment of the palestinian people. the terms of the two-state solution are beyond anything the israeli settler colonialists would ever entertain, and everyone knows it. who is going to make them respect the 1967 lines? no one lifted a finger while they evicted palestinians from their homes and lands, illegally annexed territory and built countless illegal settlements. why should palestinians accept the terms of a deal that they know from bitter experience the other side is incapable of honouring? three decades we have talked about this proposal as it becomes more of a fantasy, while the palestinians suffered a brutal, grinding reality of apartheid. if this is all we have to offer, then the palestinians are better off pursuing their right to resist the colonisation of their lands, to fight for self-determination, independence and the right of return for all palestinian refugees to fight for human rights and freedom.
mr president, the palestinian leadership showed great willingness to compromise when principally agreeing to a two-state solution. but for as long as it has been the main approach, settlement expansion and annexation has continued. palestinians live under a militarised apartheid regime that systematically oppresses, brutalises and discriminates against them, enforcing settler violence, evictions, demolitions, colonisation of their neighbourhoods. israel embarks on sprees of spectacular military violence against a civilian population in gaza, feebly justified on the basis of a security threat. and of course, in theory, the eu regrets all this. but it never has consequences. instead, we excuse it. we reward israel with deepening bilateral cooperation and the zionist ultra-right advances. these are facts. with every year, a two-state solution is less viable. we have to call a spade a spade. there is no peace process. it’s a process of annexation under false pretences and we all know it.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for the opportunity to exchange on this matter. i shall come to a direct question which was put to me on palestinian textbooks. the eu has funded an independent study of palestinian textbooks against defined international benchmarks based on the unesco’s standards on peace, tolerance and non-violence in education. the research by the independent and internationally recognised georg eckert institute for international textbook research was published in june of last year. the analysis revealed a complex picture. the report was shared with the european parliament and the services briefed various committees of the european parliament. the independent assessment carried out by the gei provides an objective basis for the eu’s engagement with the palestinian authority on education reform and changes to the curriculum that are essential, with a view to bringing about the full adherence to unesco’s standards of peace, tolerance, coexistence and non-violence in all palestinian educational material. the eu has stepped-up its engagement with the palestinian authority on the basis of the study, with the aim to ensure that further curriculum reform addresses problematic issues in the shortest possible time frame, and that the palestinian authority takes responsibility to screen textbooks not analysed in the study. in parallel, the eu will encourage the relevant authorities in israel and the palestinian authorities to engage in dialogue to ensure coherence with unesco benchmarks on peace, tolerance and non-violence in education in their curricula, ideally, through joint efforts, the exchange of experts and full transparency. to conclude this, i can assure you that the eu will remain actively engaged and working towards the relaunch of the two-state solution. we continue to call on the parties to take concrete steps towards relaunching a political horizon and offer our every support towards this end. the eu will continue to defend the viability of the two-state solution and respect for international law, and to advocate against any unilateral action.
six motions for resolutions were tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure.1 the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 december 2022. the following table is presented in order of appearance: see minutes of the sitting.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the turkish air strikes in northern syria and the kurdistan region of iraq (2022/2968 (rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the latest escalation of violence in türkiye, syria and iraq is, of course, of grave concern. it is so for several reasons. first, for the loss of civilian life. second, because the violence we have seen threatens the already volatile security situation of the entire region. and thirdly, it puts the gains made in the fight against islamic state in jeopardy. this is all the more concerning against the backdrop of russia’s war of aggression on ukraine. türkiye is a key partner of the european union and a critically important actor in the region and the syrian crisis in particular. the eu calls for restraint and for urgent de-escalation. türkiye needs to act in a responsible manner and contribute to regional stability and security. türkiye has the right to respond to the horrible incident of 13 november in istanbul. however, türkiye’s security concerns stemming from north—east syria should be addressed through political and diplomatic means, not by military action, and in full respect of international humanitarian law. president erdoğan’s recurring language suggests an upcoming incursion in northern syria. the eu has repeatedly stressed our concern over any such operation with our turkish interlocutors, and we continue to raise these concerns and to stress the need to avoid further escalation. so let me make three points. a ground incursion into syria would further undermine the fight against daesh, would lead to unacceptable human suffering and would have great implications for international security. the weakening of the syrian defence forces would open the door to a return of the assad regime to the north—east of syria, supported by russian military forces, thus handing a further geopolitical advantage to the russian federation. a lasting peace in syria can only be achieved through the full implementation of un security council resolution 2254. the violations of iraq’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, not only by türkiye, but also by the islamic revolutionary guards corps, come at a particularly critical moment for iraq, which has a new government in place after a prolonged government formation and political tensions. the eu remains committed to the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of iraq. we call on all iraq’s neighbours to refrain from unilateral military actions that could undermine iraq’s sovereignty and have a destabilising effect on iraq and the wider region. we support iraq’s efforts to develop a balanced foreign policy, maintaining good relations with both international and regional partners. countries in the region, including türkiye and iraq, are encouraged to better coordinate anti-terrorist activities and any actions against the pkk. we expect them to act in full respect of international law, including international human rights and humanitarian law. we also encourage iraq and türkiye to continue on the path of dialogue and friendly neighbourly relations, and we stand ready to support such a dialogue, if and when needed.
for the greens/efa group mr president, thank you. where are you, mr. borrell? can't you see? the high representative of the european external action service has not understood that mr erdoğan wants to start a war in northern syria? so europe has nothing to say to prevent turkey's planned invasion of northern syria? erdoğan is violating international law. it threatens the millions of kurdish citizens and other nationalities who live together in rojava and who, despite daesh and the general situation in syria, are building a society with real democratic values. this invasion will have disastrous consequences for the middle east in general, but it will also have consequences for the rest of the world. the first of these will be to release into the wild some ten thousand islamist prisoners held by the kurdish armed forces, who will thus be able to rebuild daesh. can this situation suit the european union? if not, we must act quickly and weigh on the future of this region. we must block the possibility of bombing northern syria with impunity by deciding to establish a no-fly zone, as was done in its time, under the auspices of the un, for iraqi kurdistan. in iraq, the authorities of the autonomous kurdistan are recognized by the international community, and their government has made northern iraq an island of stability and a refuge for all those persecuted by daesh. the same must be done for rojava. the authorities in northern syria, who peacefully and democratically administer that territory, who fought and defeated daesh alongside europe and the united states, must be officially recognised and involved in the negotiations for the future of syria. rojava and its autonomous administration have never been a threat to turkey; it's the opposite, actually.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, all the signs are that erdoğan's intentions go far beyond revenge for the istanbul attacks, and that he is preparing to put into practice the threat of another military incursion into syria, although he has never produced any evidence to back up his accusations. ladies and gentlemen, at what point did we decide to draw our red line? cyprus and greece have been shamefully victimized for years by erdoğan's aggressive rhetoric and abuses. despite the invasion of ukraine, turkey does not adhere to sanctions, but continues to happily collaborate with putin, bombs the regions liberated from isis, brutally attacks iraq, probably using chemical weapons against the civilian population. moreover, ankara continues to blackmail and shamefully pressure sweden and finland, demanding extraditions and other benefits in order to remove the veto on the accession of our two member states to nato. this, ladies and gentlemen, is a purely political debate which would require a firm position from the council and a discussion in this house with the high representative. with 49 of you, colleagues and members, we are still waiting for a response to the letter we sent two weeks ago to high representative borrell on this issue. in the meantime, i would like to ask you, commissioner, are we prepared to help manage the humanitarian catastrophe that will occur in syria, to welcome the influx of refugees that will come from these areas when isis regains the ground it has lost, in a way that is in line with international law?
mr president, turkey is presenting itself to the union as a necessary mediator between russia and ukraine, but it poses serious threats to the security of europe. this month we have seen bombings of kurdish areas in syria and iraq, including the kobanê children's hospital. not only do these bombings and the ground invasion of syrian kurdish territories that turkey is preparing have grave humanitarian consequences, but they are preparing the ground for jihadists, against whom kurdish forces have been our best allies, to again endanger the security of the region and our own security. in addition, there are indications that turkey is helping russia to evade eu sanctions. worse still, turkey regularly and openly threatens to attack a member state of the union militarily. ladies and gentlemen, we have a problem with turkey and this parliament must respond. who protects turkey in the european union? why is the high representative, josep borrell, not here? why is spain's policy of letting erdogan do his thing becoming europe's policy?
i must say very clearly to you, mr president, that i ask you to refrain from placing all the responsible officials of the eu institutions under general arrest because of the misconduct of a member of the european parliament.
mr president, on 20 november, türkiye launched a major air offensive attack in rojava, syria, and in the kurdistan region of iraq, which continues uninterrupted against targets, including civilians and infrastructure. this was portrayed by türkiye as a response to the bombing attack a few days earlier that was attributed to the kurds. since then, though, the turkish narrative has change a few times and, despite inconsistencies and contradictions, the request by the hdp for a full investigation has been rejected by the government coalition in the turkish parliament. the turkish government has been using the bombing attack as a pretext to attack the kurds, despite the strong suspicion, which is more than probable, of turkish intelligence involvement. the ongoing attack in syria and iraq is another blatant violation of international law, just like in the aegean against greece and against cyprus, despite the ongoing military occupation of northern cyprus. enough is enough. this long-standing appeasement policy has failed and the eu has to act strongly to stop the turkish aggression now.
mr president, turkey is once again bombing the kurds in northern syria, whose struggle has stopped the islamic state, the terrorist organization that has left hundreds dead in europe and thousands dead in syria. but it seems that we forget too easily, as we remain on the lookout for challenges and continuing violations of international law. but it's not just that. turkey is the only nato country that has not imposed sanctions on russia. turkey is the country that is blackmailing sweden and finland, refusing to ratify their entry into nato, violating the sovereign rights of greece and cyprus and even mr erdogan had the audacity to threaten our country, saying that if we do not behave, athens will soon be within range of the new missile it is building. is this the behaviour of a country which the european council and the european commission consider to be an ally? what else does he have to do to get action ? the least you can do is impose an arms embargo immediately and sanctions that will directly affect the erdogan regime.
mr. president, where is mr. borrell? he should be pressuring turkey to stop its attacks. it should be made clear that they do not believe turkey's narrative about safe zones and security threats from the autonomous administration of rojava and that the turkish attacks are completely unjustified. he should be supporting rojava to implement an internationally protected no-fly zone. i should be actively working to promote the renewal of the peace negotiations. because turkey has three invasions in northern syria, two of which resulted in the occupation of areas previously occupied by rojava. with the turkish invasion and occupation, these areas have gone from being safe places, where different communities lived together in harmony and women could participate fully in society, to now become one of the most violent places on the planet. we have forgotten the struggle of the kurdish people against isis. we've forgotten so many things. there is no justification for what is happening, because the kurdish people have fought against isis and this region is again becoming a threatened and violent area.
mr president, we hear a lot these days about the rules-based international order. well, turkey’s action in northern syria and iraq is a very good example of that in practice. it’s one rule for nato members and one for everyone else. turkey has invaded northern syria, slaughtered the kurds there, annexed and occupied syrian land. turkey has rolled over them in nato tanks, bombed them with nato aircraft. its nato troops wielding nato weapons have driven them from their homes. yet the west calls the kurds allies even as it arms and supports turkish savagery against them. and when turkey goes in again, what can we expect from the eu and the us? nothing. absolutely nothing. why would we when already they stand by and starve and murder syrian men, women and children with their illegal sanctions? western imperium has no friends, only interests. but you’re playing a very dangerous game.
madam president, executive vice-president vestager, minister bek, the us inflation reduction act is good news and bad news at the same time. it’s good news that the world’s largest economy joins the eu in investing in the green transition. it is bad news though that it does so by breaching the principles of the world trade organization and breaking the bonds of trust between two strong partners. many now propose doing the same here in the european union, but we need to stop reacting to what the us is doing and take the lead ourselves and do it our way. we need to develop a smart strategy which avoids fragmentation of the single market, and i would propose a legislative package based on three main aspects. first, we should make our economies more competitive by creating a favourable environment for business and innovation, and there are a lot of concrete things that we can do there. second, we must invest in strategic sectors where the eu can still achieve a competitive advantage by fostering research and innovation. third, we must defend free trade and diversify our trading partners. colleagues, it is not about reacting to the inflation reduction act. it’s time for our own strategy towards a european competitive advantage.
madam president, and also thank you very much commissioner for your very clear outline on the response of europe to the american inflation reduction act. and i very much agree with your point that we need a decarbonised, low energy price continent, that that is the aim, and also very much how much there also investments are needed for that, we have to look at state aid. but this also means homework for all of us. homework certainly also for the council. tomorrow you are meeting together with the heads of state, so you have now finally to discuss a european fund because this is one of the responses that we need and this should be high on the agenda now of the european leaders. but also, more close to home, this also means that, for example, the council should move towards a much bigger innovation fund when we are talking about revenues coming from the ets. we will have a final trilogue maybe on friday, saturday, maybe sunday. what is the council going to do? is it going to lower the innovation fund again? that’s going against the will of more investments. but there is also homework for the commission. if you are afraid that we in the end do not have enough public money, then you also need to come up with more proposals on ending fossil subsidies. you have to come forward with proposals on the taxonomy, also looking at the non-sustainable investments and not only green investments. and if you are afraid that the money will go from households to shareholders, do come up with a reform of the corporate governance moving away from shareholder capitalism. that’s homework for the commission as well.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i was in washington a week ago and, together with many colleagues, we have repeatedly pointed out to our american counterparts that the new us law on inflation violates the rules of the wto and will have very serious repercussions on european businesses. many of the green subsidies that will be introduced in america heavily discriminate against the most virtuous and advanced european industries: i am talking about our car manufacturers, the manufacturers of renewable energy systems, the manufacturers of batteries, the other energy-intensive industries in the european union, but above all i am talking about thousands of european jobs at risk. not only does this law put european companies at a disadvantage compared to their star-studded rivals, but our existing state aid rules, in the legislation as it stands, prevent member states from doing the same and offering equally generous tax breaks to their own companies. so, in addition to the damage, the mockery. we must have the courage to tell the americans that this is not about helping domestic industry, but about being in unfair competition with a historic ally like europe, and we must make them understand that this ally does not intend to stand by and watch, and i hope that it really does not.
(start of speech off mic) ... the inflation reduction act is a systematic challenge for the green deal. it’s an alternative to the green deal because we never delivered on the deal part of the green deal. we are regulating our industry. we are co-creating the regulation. this house is part of that exercise, but we are not investing to ensure in the business case for the transition. that’s what the inflation reduction act is doing. the inflation reduction act creates a business case for a sustainable transition. it offers an industry a deal, and our only possible reaction to it is to become furious about the deal part of the green deal. madam commissioner, we thought you to be too intelligent to announce yet another fund. i think we have to have a better understanding of the complex transnational, sectoral ecosystems of the industry affected by the inflation reduction act. we need to step up investment in innovation and develop real transition pathways for our industries. we need to mobilise all unspent cohesion funds from the previous mff to invest in our industrial transition. we need to invest more in energy and mobility infrastructure and deepen our european market. we have to care about the deal and not steer towards america. let’s get serious about the deal part of the green deal.
madam president, madam vice-president vestager, mr bek, i want to say that we all have seen the consequences of russia's war in ukraine and that we need to take action in the european union. we saw how bad it was for us when we found that we were missing essential elements of the european union industry, such as: we don't have chips, we don't have enough renewable production capacity. we have a need to preserve the european steel industry, the european aluminium industry, because when we need them, we find that all these things are missing. the european union's answer has to be simple: we need a sovereign wealth fund, we need money so that we can keep the essential, strategic, critical industries in the european union. we need to continue this fast permittivity process. we're not going to be able to compete on chips with the united states or china, on how much money they throw away and how much money they allocate. but instead, we can say to them: come to the european union that we have a friendly business climate, we give you building permits very quickly, we give you those state aids very quickly, in accordance with the law, because we understand the need to survive and we, as the european union, and all of us who work in the european union industry. thank you and good luck, madam vice president!
madam president, president of the council, vice-president, i need to say that i am very concerned over the competitiveness of european industry. we have been far too dependent on energy supplies from outside of europe, and now the energy crisis and increased energy prices are placing a heavy burden on our industry. at the same time, we know that the population of the eu is ageing and companies are struggling to have access to a skilled workforce. the green and digital transition require a new type of skills. for that reason, we need to invest in education and skills as well as in research and development, much more than we have done. at the same time, we need to ensure that our regulations are encouraging innovations and investments in europe. i am expecting the commission to take this matter seriously and to abstain from introducing any new legislation that increases the administrative burden and costs for european industry and for our smes.
madam president, the us inflation reduction act is essentially a protectionist package attempting to rejuvenate the us manufacturing industry by drawing companies to the us with subsidies and tax breaks, and giving existing us companies an advantage over the eu and others. i’m surprised that the eu is surprised. america has been engaging in protectionism for over the last hundred years and they use it to their advantage as they see fit. and they’ve used the imf and the world bank to make sure that others don’t engage in it when it damages us interests. now, i think we’re a bit taken aback by it because we’re already suffering from america taking advantage of the war. we’re supporting a us-nato proxy war. they’re charging us four times more for their gas than they’re charging their own. and they’re giving themselves another advantage there. henry kissinger once said, ‘america doesn’t have friends or enemies. it has interests.’ and it’s about time that the eu copped on to themselves and started living a more independent existence from the us.
madam president, please. this bill is another setback for europe, and let no one have any illusions that we are allies with the united states, but also economic competitors. the eu leaders must finally recognise that the energy situation, the sanctions and the us economic policy are all undermining our competitiveness. it's now clear that the us will not change the law, will not exempt european companies. our options are limited if we don't want a trade war. imposing tariffs on imports would be inconsistent with the wto, litigation would take time, and our companies, by the time we get legal recourse, will have long since relocated to the us. member state subsidies would create a disparity between the rich and the poor in the eu. what do you need to do? finally, we are putting the pending free trade agreements to rest, rethinking the union's state aid system. instead of heavy and slow regulations, we need an investment-friendly environment. finally, if the commission wants to create a new fund, i hope it does not intend to create it out of debt. and it's very important that we get rid of our own bureaucratic rules that cripple smes.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the decision not to reduce europe's ambitions in terms of sustainability and also fair trade at global level is understandable, despite the affront received by the measures to reduce inflation proposed by the united states of america. but the condition for us not to lower our ambitions is that europe at the same time decides to protect its products on the world markets not in protectionist terms but in real, economic terms. we can remain ambitious, but at the same time we must not leave our entrepreneurs alone in the global challenge. it is therefore very wrong that the cbam should decide not to deal with exports and it is therefore desirable that in the negotiations on the ets, which will conclude on friday, the subject of exports should be included in the measures on which europe, which has high ambitions, must decide not to protect only the politicians who tell them, but also the exporting companies.
madam president, the worst is yet to come, so said the imf in october. europe’s economies are being decimated by sanctions. millions of europeans are going to have to decide between heating and eating this winter. people in poland are burning rubbish to keep warm and the lights are winking out in german industry. the russians are laughing at us. the americans are laughing at us. and i wouldn’t blame them, because when europe decided to go to war, it ended up cutting its own throat. and then we have the inflation reduction act – a coup de grâce from the us to a europe that it knows is bleeding. so much for our like-minded partners. they’re doing what they always do: putting america first. that’s the business they’re in. but what is the response of the eu? nothing. we’re too busy shooting ourselves in both feet, failing to try and secure an end to the war while the us charges us four times the price for energy, having made us dependent. in a modern war, the only winner is global capital; ordinary people always lose. we should remember that the next time we talk about peace being treason.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, with temperatures plummeting across europe this week the cost of keeping warm is very much at the forefront of our minds. we need to take fast and meaningful action to protect the most vulnerable in our societies and make sure no one has to make the choice between heating and eating. the eu acted decisively when imposing a tax on excessive profits of energy companies, and there should be no unnecessary profiteering from this crisis. but i am deeply disappointed to hear that the eu ministers are now dragging their feet on imposing a cap on gas price. i would urge them to get around the table again to have a deal by the end of this year. taking a step back and looking at the cost of living at the moment, there is no doubt we are in a crisis. inflation across europe is still around 10%. in my own country it is at 8%. but we should also be conscious that we should not go chasing inflation. our actions need to be measured and effective. the ecb economists have already said and indicated that we are reaching or have reached the peak of inflation. we now need to prioritise and shield the most vulnerable in our societies and use any flexibility in our national eu budget to do so. and clearly what we need now, commission and member states, is not to go chasing the inflation, but to target the vulnerable groups, the vulnerable cohorts out there that are finding it hard to make ends meet. certainly, we do need flexibility around national budgets to do that, but at the same time, it would be remiss of us if we just blindly started chasing inflation as it stands. i said already, i am deeply disappointed by the member states in the council that they couldn’t agree on a gas price cap. it is clearly evident that there is profiteering by some energy companies, but we have to break the fundamental link between gasping the price setter of electricity across europe, and that has to happen very, very quickly, otherwise we will continue to have energy inflation feeding into the rest of the broader economy and damaging vulnerable cohorts and the standard of living of people who most need our support.
mr president, let’s be clear and honest: what we are discussing here today is the abuses of national vetoes, the use of the veto in a manner that is malicious and spiteful, that does not consider the proposal on its merits, but instead uses it as a pawn in a larger political game. this is against the spirit of the treaties and undermines the genuine arguments for sovereignty and the purpose of unanimity voting procedures. unanimity voting allows the voice of each member state to be given equal weight on sensitive issues, regardless of size. these are matters that go to the very heart of sovereign states, for which there needs to be direct accountability for any decisions made. so let’s focus our efforts on finding a genuine solution to tackle the abuse of the veto and not allow this debate to slide into an attack on unanimity in every area of policy. much of the solutions relies on the goodwill of member states and some peer pressure amongst leaders. but one practical solution would be to address the voting mechanism of article 7 procedures for when member states have breached the core values of the eu. as it stands, suspending voting rights of member states that have breached these fundamental values requires a unanimous vote in the council. this is akin to asking turkeys to vote for christmas. these member states should not be allowed to breach our core values and then use any commitments to remedy this as leverage for other votes. so we do need to address article 7 at the very least.
on behalf of the left group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i often think of the moria refugee camp being set on fire and of the german conservative politicians still using the excuse of a european solution, all in order to avoid national responsibility for european policy. but nothing has really happened since then. and without the abolition of the veto of individual member states, there will never be a common european asylum policy worthy of the name. the same applies to taxation. we need more cooperation and, above all, we need a european financial transaction tax. i am therefore naturally in favour of qualified majority voting in the council in even more policy areas. in general, however, the abolition of the unanimity principle requires the introduction of full legislative co-decision by the european parliament. for example, when troops are sent from germany in a crisis, the national parliamentary reservation must continue to apply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must agree on this reform of voting proportions in the interests of the ability of european politicians to act.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to demonstrate that the right of veto is anachronistic, we would think of the vote of 8 december, when austria abused this right of veto. abusively because it had no legal argument present in the schengen regulation and, behold, it keeps almost 40 million people outside the right, provided for in the treaty, of free movement of citizens within the european union. we signed the same treaty with romania and bulgaria. citizens of my country and bulgaria have the same citizenship rights. how can we talk about free movement ? how can we talk about the competence of firms in the two countries when they stand 48 or even more border shootings ? commissioner, i have sent a letter to the commission. thank you to the colleagues who have signed and will sign that we still have a deadline. i ask you to use the amendments immediately, to move to amend the treaty and eliminate the abuse of the veto of the member states.
mr president, we’re here today talking about defending the european union against abuse of national vetoes. but to be honest, i’m much more interested in talking about defending national vetoes from the european union. there is a sustained and deliberate campaign in this parliament to undermine the right enshrined in the treaties to veto council decisions, the very basis of the eu. let me be clear: when it comes to foreign and defence policy, we should never, ever give those who dream of an imperial europe what they want and abolish the veto. you can’t talk about a union of equals with the one breath and steamroll over small states with the next. every member state has its own interests, its own priorities, its own concerns. of course, it might be difficult at times to find a solution that suits everyone. sometimes states might use the veto as leverage, that’s politics. talking about aid to ukraine being blocked by the veto is nonsense. if member states wanted to give macro-assistance they could give it, just not in the name of the union. it’s time to stop this moral outrage, we’re not the united states of europe.
mr president, we’re talking about defending the european union against the abuse of national vetoes. if you want to defend the european union, how about giving some power back to the people? because with the lisbon and nice treaties – which we in ireland voted against on both occasions, but we got the wrong answer and we had to vote a second time – in those treaties, power was taken from the people and given to the institution, and neoliberalism was enshrined in the european union. people talk about good actors and bad actors and the abuse of the veto. who’s going to decide who’s a good actor? who’s going to decide who’s the bad actor? what’s going on here? when we signed up to the european union, when we joined it, we understood that we weren’t going to be corralled into being completely dominated by the others. we were going to have a say; we were going to retain our sovereignty. it’s one of the reasons we joined. and listen, you are undermining the european union by trying to make one big union? the european union is not a country; it’s a group of countries. and stop trying to make an imperial power out of it.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the revelations and suspicions of corruption in the ranks of the socialists and democrats are a huge disgrace and stain on the european parliament. as always, the wise bulgarian proverb "the thief calls, catch the thief" proved true. of course, this corruption must be investigated to the end. these trade union, non-governmental organizations that probably influenced the european parliament to adopt the lobbying package "mobility" that was stealing business from the eastern countries should be investigated. you all know very well that the kremlin and belgrade are influencing the balkans through their own ngos and from there follows anti-european, anti-bulgarian propaganda in skopje, in bosnia and herzegovina, in montenegro, in albania and in kosovo. it should be investigated whether these ngos invited european representatives, i.e. meps, as some colleagues like to call themselves, who are these meps, were their contributions paid as institutions, like ifimes for example? these are important questions, because if qatar can give money here, and the kremlin, and belgrade are destroying european unity through belgrade, in skopje and so it is very good to look at whether there are colleagues who have been tempted to go into the middle there too. and they should be shown, followed and investigated, because corruption is a bad thing, remember on the left side of the room, on the left.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, we tried to include in this question an explanation on how fundamental rights would be safeguarded in the commission’s disinformation package, particularly in light of the zeal for using sanctions against organisations and individuals accused of disinformation. sanctions are tools of international law, not domestic law. fundamental rights protections in our legal system don’t apply in international law. sanctions are imposed by governments, not courts. so the burden of proof and the standard of evidence are lower. sanctioned individuals don’t have the right to hear or challenge the accusations against them. surely to any democrat the proposal to use sanctions to tackle disinformation has to be seen as an end run around due process and undermining the rights of the accused. it threatens to do serious harm to the rule of law and freedom of expression, the very cores of democracy. it will inevitably lead to a deprivation of rights, as the un counter-terrorism sanctions regime has done also. so i would ask the commission: what steps is it taking to safeguard fundamental rights?
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i see you're online, watch your web browsing, ladies and gentlemen, deliberate attempts to manipulate the information environment and public discourse by foreign actors are by no means new. russia's use of information manipulation and its involvement in the preparation and conduct of a war of aggression against ukraine demonstrates this and demonstrates that such activity constitutes an integral part of modern warfare. just as modern technological advances can be tools to strengthen our democracies, they are also a conduit through which we expose citizens at their doorstep to the risk of outside interference and manipulation. with that in mind, i cannot stress enough the importance of media literacy as the safest and strongest shield of our citizens. the defence of democracy package should provide a framework for member states to encourage democratic participation and inclusion of citizens in decision-making processes beyond electoral cycles. our democracies cannot and should not be taken for granted. only by strengthening democracy from within can we achieve resilience to outside interference. the conference on the future of europe is one such example of strengthening our democracy. by empowering and raising awareness, we strengthen the role of citizens in the communication process. however, let us not forget, there are new modern forms of danger. they demand a transformation of security policy in every way, in the media, in politics and in the economy. it's up to us to take that responsibility. only educated and well-educated citizens are strong citizens of the european union.
mr president, sometimes i actually feel sorry for the commission, having to listen to meps, appeal to them as to what they’re going to do about russian interference in the european union. now, do russia and china interfere in matters of european affairs? yeah, they do. do they engage in propaganda? yeah, they do. but you know what? neither of them were any good at it because we could actually see through most of what they had to say and do. but do you know who is much better at it? i mean, the americans are way ahead of them, but we don’t seem to have a problem with that. i go to meetings here – committees and delegations – and the lack of balance in the people being brought before us to give us their words of wisdom is shocking. i witness people coming in on a regular basis to promote and defend us imperialism, and there’s no one brought in to question them. i’ve witnessed people coming in to tell us how wonderful things are in the gulf states, and no one being brought in to question them. why don’t we start asking who is bringing these people in? who’s deciding who comes before our committees? who decides what people should inform us about what’s really going on. this place is a bit of a joke sometimes, and my heart does go out to the commission.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all, thank you for the conversation with us. but i would like to thank, more in general, all of you for today’s opportunity to present the very first sketch of what we will be the defence of democracy package. your contributions will serve as a reflection of the commission and the work of my colleague věra jourová, who unfortunately could not be here today. we are at the early stages of preparation of our upcoming proposals, which we aim to adopt, as already announced in my introduction, in spring 2023. we will continue our very fruitful cooperation with the parliament and, in particular, with the inge 2 committee, which will contribute to shape this package and indeed will strengthen democracy in europe.
the debate is closed.
the council and the commission's statements on the commission's reports on the situation of journalists and the implications for the rule of law (2022/3002 ((rsp)) are discussed below.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, commissioner, honourable members, media freedom is an indispensable pillar of our democratic societies, and journalists are its guardians and keepers. there is no democracy where there is no freedom of speech and where people fear for their life every time they are critical. this is the reason why freedom of expression, media freedom and pluralism are guaranteed in the eu charter of fundamental rights. these freedoms must be protected by all governments. it is an absolute priority for all democracies to protect journalists from financial or political pressure. journalists must never be threatened for simply doing their jobs. the council recently reaffirmed its commitment to the protection and safety of journalists in its conclusions of june 2022. it acknowledged that obstacles to freedom of expression and freedom to inform are on the rise in europe and in the world. in addition, the council is also working on protecting and promoting a common rule—of—law culture amongst member states. for example, the general affairs council holds country—specific discussions as part of the annual rule—of—law dialogue. the one held in april covered luxembourg, hungary, malta, the netherlands and austria, and the latest one, which took place yesterday, focused on poland, portugal, romania, slovenia and sweden. on these occasions, media freedom is regularly highlighted as a key enabler of the rule of law. the council is also committed to advancing work on key legislative proposals currently on the table, namely the proposed media freedom act and the slapp directive. the commission proposal for a directive against strategic lawsuits against public participation aims to avoid judicial harassment, especially against journalists. since its adoption on 27 april 2022, work in the council has been advancing quickly. for the council, it is crucial to find the right balance between the right to freedom of expression and the right of access to justice, and to ensure that the safeguards provided in the proposal will be adequate and efficient in protecting slapp targets. these crucial aspects were especially debated and highlighted last week by justice ministers. the council is also actively examining the proposed media freedom act, which aims to support the proper functioning of the internal market for media services. in the current geopolitical situation, where autocratic regimes try to suppress independent information and media pluralism, we must defend our democratic model and our fundamental rights. this includes the effective exercise of the freedom of expression and information. we will continue our work for those rights to thrive in the union. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, thank you for your proposing this statement to the agenda of this day. journalists continue to face threats and obstacles to their work, including physical attacks reported in europe. three hundred and eleven media freedom violations were recorded in the first six months of this year by the media freedom rapid response project. verbal attacks, including harassment and threats, were the most common types of violation, followed by legal incidents and physical attacks. while private individuals remained the main source of attacks on journalists and media workers, police and state security and government and public officials were also sometimes behind these attacks. the challenge over the last few years was to deepen our analysis of the current media environment and to better understand the influence of the digital environment on media production, distribution and consumption. it’s for all these reasons and to answer these challenges that the commission adopted the recommendation on the safety of journalists in september 2021 and proposed an anti-strategic lawsuit against public participation, better known as the so-called ‘slapp package’, in 2022 and, finally, the media freedom act in september of this year. the recommendation provides a catalogue of practical measures that could be applied at the national level. while it does not include any legal obligations for member states, its rationale is to propose a set of practical and operational voluntary steps that could be taken by them. in the anti-slapp package we tackle the use of lawsuits by abusive claimants in bad faith to silence and harass journalists and human rights defenders and not to gain access to justice. the commission considers that the most efficient way to fight against slapp and prevent it from growing roots in the union is a solid combination of legislation by way of a proposal for a directive and a recommendation. the recommendation is designed to build awareness and expertise among the targets of lawsuits, legal professionals and other groups. it will ensure that support is available for those facing punitive legal actions and promote a more systematic monitoring of slapp. the proposed directive provides for targeted civil procedural safeguards against slapp in cross-border situations and provides for a careful balance of fundamental rights. and, finally, the european media freedom act complements this proposal. it will be an important cornerstone for safeguarding the integrity of the internal market for media services, bringing more legal certainty for providers and users of such services. the objective of the european media freedom act is also to ensure that no journalist should be spied on for doing his or her work. in the same vein, the proposed rules clarify that journalists should not be prosecuted for protecting the confidentiality of their sources. each member state will have to appoint an independent authority to handle complaints by journalists. it’s very commendable that some member states have taken or stepped up existing measures to improve the safety of journalists. for example, in france, the legislation recognises the role of journalists in demonstrations. a liaison committee between the ministry of home affairs and the press enables permanent dialogue on safety in demonstrations. increased threats and physical attacks have been frequently reported, and the government has recently agreed a memorandum of understanding on the protection of journalists. we also note that criminal trials continue in the cases of journalists murdered in the union. in malta, an alleged mastermind of the assassination of journalist daphne caruana galizia has been indicted on charges of complicity in murder and criminal association and criminal proceedings are ongoing. in slovakia, the trial related to the assassination of ján kuciak and his fiancée martina kusnirova is going on. in the netherlands, the trial related to the murder of journalist peter de vries has started. and in greece the murder of journalist giorgos karaivaz in april 2021 is under investigation. for these reasons, we address a series of recommendations to greece, croatia, slovenia and slovakia specifically on this issue in the rule of law report of this year. we will follow them when preparing the fourth rule of law report scheduled for july next year.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east. journalists are watchdogs of our rule of law. we must cherish and protect it. however, in practice - also in europe - we see that journalists are facing increasing difficulties. i see it in my own country. journalists are threatened, intimidated, cars are pushed off the road, firebombs are thrown through the mailbox and we even see reporters having to cover their logos for fear of violence. there are journalists in europe who have paid for their work with their lives: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the programme. let us remember these names and let us keep their legacy alive. because the threat is a multi-headed monster that doesn't just consist of criminals. increasingly, it is politicians who portray the media as the main enemy. right-wing populists and trump wannabes across europe have made a sport of turning their backs on journalists, with all the risks that come with it. and then we see in europe that governments are using invasive spyware like pegasus to eavesdrop on journalists, which is something we should be thankful for, because without good investigative journalism, we would still be in the dark on that front as well. the many victims we spoke to each had deeply moving stories about the devastating effect of these kinds of invasive privacy violations on the practice of their profession. so it's good that we're all here to make a strong case for better protection of journalists. we welcome the proposals on the media law and the anti-slapp directive, and we must make them much stronger wherever possible. if we want to protect our rule of law and our democracy, that starts with protecting our journalists.
the european federation of journalists reports the deaths of 12 journalists in europe in 2022, many of them in ukraine. one hundred and twenty-four journalists are in prison. these shocking figures are unfortunately the tree that hides the forest, as attacks against journalists are numerous and multiple (online and offline threats, abusive litigation, judicial harassment of journalists or the use of spyware to identify sources, to name a few), especially when their work touches on abuse of power, corruption, human rights violations or criminal activities. the commission's rule of law reports do not deal with the issue sufficiently to my liking. the general climate of insecurity for journalists is of great concern, as these threats contribute to inhibiting freedom of expression. they can lead to self-censorship. they undermine journalism as a pillar of our democracies and the rule of law. independent, pluralistic and reliable journalism makes it possible to distinguish between facts and ideas, to counter misinformation, to reveal what should not be hidden and to guarantee counter-powers. that is why we must protect journalists and journalism from the harmful trends we see today. the european union can finally realise its ambitions in media policy and scrupulously assess the situation of media pluralism and transparency on media ownership in europe.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr commissioner mr johannes hahn mr minister for the czech republic, democracy does not work without its counterpowers. free and independent journalists are essential actors in this. they inform citizens, they verify facts and they fight fake news. in short, they are the guarantors of our freedom of expression and opinion. yet in the digital age, when buzz takes precedence over verified information, when the press is bought up to better control our opinions, our journalists are not sufficiently protected. support for free media is needed in all eu countries. the anti-spam law is of course a good thing, but i also want to argue here for stronger public funding, to counter the media takeovers and their concentration. i would also like to welcome, commissioner dear johannes hahn , a historic decision this week: the suspension of €12.1 billion of eu funds to hungary, which does not respect the rule of law and does not respect the freedom of the press. in a few years, viktor orbán has led a real hunt for free media, which today is almost non-existent. eighteen months ago, the last independent radio station, klubrádió, ceased broadcasting following a license suspension by the state regulator. europe, ladies and gentlemen, must take up arms to protect our democratic values and our model of society. this fight continues.
madam president! respected ! independent journalists are also crucial to the functioning of the rule of law, and we must of course protect them. we have an obligation to do this. but i don't think we're going to find any government in the world that will admit that it's trying to subjugate the media, and no journalist in the world is going to admit that he's a political activist. but they are, at least in slovenia. what about the journalists who call me a fascist because of my political affiliation and who use expressions that are difficult to repeat in public? what is more, they even work with reputable organizations like reporters without borders, and they receive awards. in slovenia, according to the survey, more than 75% of the media space is occupied by left-oriented media. the result of this is that they do not report on major cases involving left-wing politicians, including the pressure on the police by the prime minister, who spoke to you yesterday, which led to the resignation of the minister of the interior a few days ago. they don't report on corruption, patronage, and many other controversial issues involving members of the left-wing government. however, this is clearly not enough, as one of the first moves of the new slovenian government was to amend the law on national television and radio. the politicians who passed the bill say it's about depoliticizing. of course, that's not true. i have repeatedly drawn this attention of the committee responsible in parliament and of the commission. they say everything's fine. i say you have a double standard. in a few months, they will brutally deal with those rare exceptions who are critical of the slovenian government. they'll set up their own, which they'll declare independent. this is... (the president shall be excused from speaking. )
taking the protection of journalists for granted, even in modern democracies, where the rule of law is respected, is a mistake we cannot afford. last year more than 900 journalists reported being persecuted, some of them even murdered. i therefore welcome the european commission's evaluation and its recommendations. however, i urge the european commission to be more ambitious and stronger where there are serious shortcomings. today i don't want to look back. i will not speak about the several murders of journalists in a number of european countries, including my own, and i will not go into how the commission has praised malta's advances in this area. and i will not even talk about how in greece there is an escalation of persecution of journalists, even by the institutions, with the cherry on the cake being the spice of the journalists and the greek opposition leader by the same institutions. today i want to talk about solutions, beyond the buzz words and the beautiful speech that now annoys everyone, including journalists and myself. what can we do? what can the authorities in our member states do? it is necessary that member states give legal protection to media sources, give legal recognition to journalism as the fourth pillar, ensure remedies in criminal law when journalists are attacked, see that each member state has a national authority to protect the safety of journalists, and once the islapp law comes into force, there is training for judges. commissioner, we also need to ensure that journalists are relieved of the burden of court costs unless they are found guilty and where this is not done, there should be a european fund to help them in this respect. freedom of the press is the guarantee of a just society and is the guardian of us all.
madam president, commissioner, the report on the rule of law is right to bring together in one document such issues as the fight against corruption, pluralism and freedom of the media. because they all allow us to create a global picture of the health of our democracies. in the area of transparency of media ownership, we remain concerned about the lack of sufficient rules on the distribution of institutional advertising and conflict of interest. but there are also cases of specific, systematic harassment of european journalists by non-european countries. it is the concrete and real case of ignacio cembrero, a great spanish journalist, who has been charged for the fourth time by morocco for reporting on alawite politics, while the spanish authorities remain indifferent and allow a spanish journalist to be harassed and harassed judicially. inspector, we have to do something. the fight against corruption and freedom of the press are two basic pillars of our democracies which we must demand with the greatest rigour from europe, especially when we see our states openly faltering and also when, unfortunately, the poison of corruption enters our own institution.
madam president, i really wish i could be standing up here joining in the eulogies to a free media and its crucial role as a pillar in our democracies. but i look at the media that we have, and i don’t see much freedom. our media is strangled by money. it’s hobbled by fear. for most media organisations, access to power is far more important than holding power to account. careers depend on toeing the line. balance sheets demand a constant churn of stories – stories which are recycled from official statements, press releases, social media, anywhere but out in the world; anything but upset the status quo. nick davies described this in 2008 as ‘the mass production of ignorance’. 14 years later, it’s way worse now. so if we want to hold ourselves as the defenders of media freedom, we have to recognise that our mainstream media is anything but free. it’s a water carrier for political and corporate power dedicated to enforcing the demands of global capital, and people like julian assange are the exceptions, the ones who pay the price. if we don’t accept that, we’re on a hiding to nothing.
president, commissioner, media freedom and pluralism are at the heart of our european values. no journalist should die or suffer harm because of his press card. because journalists create transparency. because they give us access to a public good, namely information. their work is essential to our democracy. more than ever, their protection is also a priority, as attacks on the media have unfortunately increased in recent years. in 2022, 67 journalists died worldwide, compared to 47 the year before, according to the international federation of journalists. ukraine is clearly the most dangerous country for journalists in 2022, with 12 journalists killed. the clear erosion of safe environments that prevent media from working freely is also a cause for concern. the number of physical, legal and online threats and attacks against media professionals continues to increase steadily. we also see that women journalists, journalists from minority groups, or journalists reporting on equality issues remain particularly vulnerable to threats and attacks. it is our collective responsibility to defend free media, to redress violations of media freedom and to take decisive measures that will make europe truly safer for journalists.
yes, pluralism and media freedom are part of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention on human rights. respect for and inviolability of these rights and principles are essential for the survival of democracy, its processes and institutions. despite all this, the latest report expresses concern about the situation. among other things, we heard the black figures today. last friday it was announced, and the international federation of journalists announced that 67 media professionals were killed on the job this year, 40% more than last year. among other things, we are witnessing cases of degradation of the journalistic profession, politicization of the media, non-enforcement of the right to access information, lack of transparency in ownership structures. i therefore welcome the announced freedom of the press act and the so-called anti-slapp directive. i want to refer to it because the republic of croatia was among the first members to establish an expert group in the ministry of culture and media a year ago and systematically started to deal with slapp lawsuits. educational workshops are held with representatives of professional associations, journalists, the journalists' union, the ministry of justice, the croatian journalists' association, professors of the faculty of law, publishers. the aim is to protect journalists from unfounded or malicious prosecutions. it is our right and duty as members of the european parliament to ensure the preservation of the rule of law and the protection of fundamental values and we know, ladies and gentlemen, that democracy has no alternative. but let's not forget that media integrity means professionalism and adherence to standards, and a journalist's first and last word must be the truth.
in 2022, we received new legislative proposals from the commission proposals to deal with press freedom, to better protect journalists and to strengthen the status and independence of journalism. these are proposals that my colleagues and i have been fighting for for years, and this year they have arrived. and i want to start, then, by thanking commissioner jourova for the immense work she has done to enable us to have these proposals before us. proposals to combat, for example, the use of abusive cases, the slapps, better known as daphne's law. thanks to the commission's work, we have a clear picture of the current situation. all over europe, press freedom is not happy. to quote from the report on malta, where the commission then says it notes the significant and direct influence in public broadcasting. this is not acceptable. it is unacceptable and goes on to say that there is no will to improve the situation. madam president, government interference in public broadcasting is a threat to democracy. and so to strengthen democracy, we need to strengthen the independence of journalism in europe. this parliament recognized daphne caruana galizia, recognized her work, recognized the values in which she believed, and recognized that when journalists are abandoned, they are capable of ending up dead. five years later, too many journalists are still being killed in the line of duty. i would like to call on governments and colleagues to recognise this fact.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner hahn, the rule of law report, the third of the year 2022, is rightly given a point underlined by the libe committee: freedom of the press and freedom of pluralism in the context of the eu action plan for human rights and democracy. because there is no freedom that does not have as its corollary pluralism. but to ensure pluralism, two conditions are necessary. the first is transparency in media ownership and investment in advertising in those media. the second is to protect journalists from the most brutal demands to intimidate them or from lawsuits to frighten them - whether ignacio cembrero, a spanish journalist, or from any other member state - and, of course, to protect them from attempts on their lives. there is a room in this european parliament named after daphne caruana, but there is not much talk about yorgos karaivaz, a greek journalist who was also murdered in 2021. the commission has therefore taken two key initiatives: the legislative one, to protect journalists from intimidation, and the second, the freedom of the media act, to establish european standards for the protection of press freedom and information pluralism.
madam president, you say that an independent free press is vital to any democracy, and i agree with you. but, sadly, so much of mainstream media across europe today is either owned or controlled by vested interests. and that’s a huge problem. big money controls most of our media, or people who have an agenda in how they shape the news. you also said that a journalist should not be punished for doing his work. i also agree 100% with that, but julian assange is in prison for over four years, and he was locked up in the ecuadorian embassy for six years before that. and he is in prison because he spoke the truth. he exposed us nato war crimes. what have we done here to protect julian assange? what have we done to see that he gets freedom and that he is released from prison for telling the truth? i want to know what the eu commission are actually doing in this area, because i think it’s really, really important. it is the journalistic story of a generation, and we’re doing very little by the looks of it.
madam president, we know that democratic values and freedom of speech are in retreat and, in some parts of our world and eu, in serious decline. it is essential that we as a european union defend journalists as this is a means of defending democracy itself. and it is deeply concerning that in 2022 alone 63 journalists have been killed, 78 journalists are retained as hostages and 478 journalists are imprisoned. and that’s just what we know of. on the day that we as a parliament have awarded the sakharov prize to the people of ukraine, let me echo the words of president von der leyen when she stated that one lesson from the ukrainian war is that we should have listened to those who knew putin best – to anna politkovskaya and all the russian journalists who exposed the crimes and paid the ultimate price. the eu must be guided by its founding values of freedom of expression and ensure the safety of journalists here in the eu and around the world.
madam president, i’m just constantly amazed by the discussions that go on in here because in the main, what we’ve been subjected to is a diatribe of anti—chinese rhetoric, which is of no benefit to anybody living in china. of course the people in china are fed up! lockdowns can’t go on forever without serious social and psychological effects, and the extraordinary conditions experienced by factory workers in the foxconn complex in zhengzhou, where they produce iphones, would drive anybody around the bend. they have a right to strike, lockdowns can’t be used as an excuse to railroad workers into intolerable exploitation. but we have to avoid being simplistic. lockdowns and their effects are not unique to china, we’ve had them here. it’s been clear for a while that china would have to transition, the government has begun that process. they face huge problems with a large unvaccinated elderly population and the risk of a spike in excess mortality in a country of 1.4 billion people. with our own covid blunders, it’s a bit facile of us leaping to judgement. if we want to be useful, let us internationally cooperate, support and help china’s ease from zero covid.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, mr gunner, this is a very timely question. this question can be answered in this way. what you're seeing is a snowball. i collected this snowball outside parliament. i didn't bring it to throw the chairman, this snowball is here to show that...... (the president interrupts the speaker)
i am sorry, mr dzhambazki, according to our rules you cannot hold anything in your hands. please put it aside and then you can continue. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ecr group. – it is snow. well, it’s because of global warming. and my question here was: where is your global warming, ladies and gentlemen? outside is like siberia and snow is falling down. and that’s why we need to know who is behind the sabotage of this critical infrastructure. so your question is absolutely right and full on time, because we are not stupid people. we need to ask two questions. the first question is: who benefits from this sabotage? and the second question is: who is capable of this sabotage? when we have these answers, we’ll understand why all this is happening. and now, about global warming: please let us know with data, and why are we forcing and forced to accept all this propaganda, all this idea that we are capable and we have to build our energy only by all these sources like wind, like sun, etc.? no, we need to explore our own resources. we need to export our own natural gas. we need to explore our own nuclear energy and to have our sovereign european energy. because we need not to be dependent on outside suppliers. thank you. where is my ball?
a uachtaráin, we don’t have conclusive evidence of who carried out the nord stream attacks. we have our suspicions. but whoever did it hadn’t reckoned with the resilience of germany, who announced that they were going to build four or five lng terminals and are actually opening one on saturday. in marked contrast to my own country, where we have a shannon lng project in the pipeline for 10 years, and it’s still awaiting a decision and planning – a national embarrassment at this stage. also, we may not have conclusive evidence of who carried out the cyberattacks on our hse last year in my country, but thankfully, as a rapporteur for the cybersecurity file in the european parliament, we had a shadows meeting this week and we have come to a good arrangement which will help, as andreas schwab said, to have cross-border cooperation in fighting hackers. finally, i want to say we do know who’s carrying out the attack on the ukrainian electricity infrastructure. and it’s barbaric and it’s disgraceful. and i hope that we will follow the example of andrzej halicki and supply many more generators, hopefully funded by meps as well as others, to the ukrainians to get over this winter and to win the war.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think everyone knows that the security of critical infrastructure is a shared competence and responsibility. obviously, the member states have an obligation to take all measures to secure, but also the commission, because alone we cannot, it was said here, cross-border, companies cannot defend themselves. that is why i think, commissioner, that we must first of all clarify what is the commission's competence and what is the member states' competence and explicitly draw up this plan. we're in the cold season. what happened with the nord stream pipeline can happen again. people can't just freeze to death in their homes. after all, we have a domestic market. this was the basis of the european union, and we must also have a european strategy for energy and for all other resources. that is why i believe that there should be more cooperation between the commission and the member states, and between the member states, but it should be done consistently and not randomly and not just reacting when something happens.
madam president, when nord stream was damaged, there was uproar from politicians and mainstream media across europe for about 24 hours, and then it seemed to have disappeared. now, for the life of me, i was shocked that it could go down the list of major items in the news so quickly. initially, of course, the russians were blamed, but common sense kind of prevailed and the talk was that well if the russians don’t want any gas going through the pipelines, they can actually turn the tap off on their end. and if they wanted to blow it up, i don’t think they would blow it up quite so close to germany or sweden. so who did blow it up? this was one of the worst releases of methane in the history of mankind. it was environmental terrorism. i, for the life of me, don’t understand why the eu doesn’t want to know who did it. this is a disgrace. what is wrong with us? this is an unbelievable, destructive act and we all want to know who did it. is it because we know the answer or is it because it’s the wrong answer?
madam chairman, sabotage of critical infrastructure is indeed an extraordinary threat to our overall security. it is clear that critical infrastructure plays a particularly important role at this time, and its security, the stability of supply, is crucial at this time. critical infrastructure is of course cross-border in nature and the responsibility for protecting it lies primarily with the member states, but it is good that we have recognised that the responsibility must also fall on the european union as a whole. i don't want to speculate on who is behind these attacks, but i strongly reject the statement of my colleague beck that russia cannot be the perpetrator. i see a whole bunch of reasons why it could be russia. russia is a global scourge, conducting an absolutely unacceptable aggression in ukraine, destroying its infrastructure beyond murdering innocent people and kidnapping children. what does that tell us? surely our response must be decisive. let's not get bogged down in speculation and let's definitely protect our critical infrastructure. it's our joint task.
madam president, the explosion of the nord stream pipelines was one of the biggest acts of economic sabotage ever carried out on the european union, not to mention the devastating environmental consequences. so it is very, very strange that there’s so little discussion about it. no appetite for an investigation, no appetite for accountability, for restitution, nothing, because already having voluntarily severed our links with russian gas, as a result of the ridiculous sanctions which are costing europeans more than russians, the explosion now ensures that we won’t be restarting that any time in the next few years. instead, we’re going to be relying on filthy, environmentally devastating us lng. and not only is it filthy, but it’s four times the price that us citizens are paying for it. so a lot of people are joining the dots. who has the most to gain? who has the most to lose? without an independent investigation, those questions will continue to be asked. and we also need to draw the conclusion that the biggest threat on our energy infrastructure is militarism. war is not ended by war, but peace.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear members, i think it’s clear that we all share the same common purpose of strengthening the resilience of critical infrastructure, particularly given the geopolitical and security context. and the commission is fully playing its supporting role, coordinating work on awareness, on preparedness and response, and guiding the member states on stress tests. we have been doing it since well before the sabotage of nord stream. under the security union, we had already made a number of important proposals to increase the preparedness and response of member states. however, in the current threat landscape, we need to raise our game. these attacks were a wakeup call, and you will agree with me that the eu institutions have worked in record time on this issue. as i have said, we already have the council recommendation in place. first, to enhance preparedness with stress tests, a study taking stock of the undersea communications cables and the use of eu surveillance assets such as copernicus and galileo to support member states in the monitoring of critical infrastructure and their immediate vicinities. second, enhances our common response under the union’s civil protection mechanism and the development of a blueprint on critical infrastructure, incident and crisis. and third, reinforces international cooperation on resilience, including with nato. we will help with best practices, guidance and methodologies and feed into the expertise of eu agencies and assets such as satellite surveillance. we will count on the support of the european parliament for this.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
madam president, everyone is horrified that money in bags was transferred to at least one mep. i often wonder what planet you all live on. there’s over 12 000 companies registered in belgium as lobbyists. now, if we put an average of five persons per company, that’s about 60 000 lobbyists. what do you think they do? what do they do for a living? they lobby. they try to have influence over politicians, over public servants, so that decisions are made that suit their agenda. and if you think that the money related to this scandal around qatar is an exception, i’d ask you to think again. this has been going on for a long time and it’s nothing new. and there’s a lot of other aspects of what goes on in this house that should be investigated, but probably won’t be.
madam president, i voted for the resolution. qatar’s human rights record, whitewashed in exchange for bags of cash, is pretty scandalous. but it was also scandalous to see the libe committee vote to give qatar visas for qatari oil, whitewashing their human rights record – two sides of the same coin. the resolution isn’t bad, but it could be a lot better. it feels to me that we had the opportunity to really look corruption and undue influence squarely in the eye and do something about it. but we didn’t. there are actually some 48 000 lobbyists in brussels seeking to influence eu institutions. the nearly 12 000 organisations on the eu lobby register have a combined annual lobbying budget of eur 1.8 billion. european defence policy has literally been written by these individuals. but instead of confronting that, the resolution dodges the question and talks solely about foreign interference. interference is interference. corruption is corruption. it’s all rotten. it doesn’t matter where it comes from. the influence of european money is also corrupting, and it’s about time we tackled all of it.
madam president, of course the multiannual financial framework is a bit out of date and has shortcomings because of covid and the ukraine war. the report acknowledges that 21.9% of the eu population is at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and the energy poverty is certain to worsen as a consequence of the war. but what’s the eu doing to end the war? absolutely nothing. we’re flooding ukraine with arms at a great cost to our own citizens and at great cost to the lives of so many ukrainians. now paragraph 39 of the report calls for an increase in the budget ceiling for security and defence. it advocates spending more money on weapons and war, money that could be spent instead on climate mitigation and adaptation, public transport, health or education. there is no military solution to the crisis in ukraine, and the policy of flooding ukraine with weapons is madness. and if we want to fight russia down to the last ukrainian and make our own people suffer in the meantime just to support a us—nato proxy war, it’s about time we copped on to ourselves.
madam president, i voted against this report because, as usual, it has nothing to do with reason or common sense and is aimed at utopias, greenness, climate change and other issues that condemn europeans to more energy poverty, more spending and a non-competitive economy. what we have just been talking about, namely critical infrastructure and so on, is related to the damage that is being done by the policy being pursued by the european union and the european parliament, which is aimed solely at sponsoring things that have nothing to do with common sense. but that's the motive. now, in conclusion, let me say, i see that time is not moving, but i'm giving it to the computer. now allow me to thank you for your patience, personally to you, madam president, to apologize for the slight violation of the rules (i believe that a snowball will not shake your sound mind so much) and to wish you personal, family happiness, happy christian, christmas, christmas and new year holidays, and personal and family happiness!
madam president, i voted against the multiannual financial framework. two years have passed since the adoption of it. obviously, our budget is again under strain, faced with multiple crises that are piling up, the responsibility for which largely, in many instances, is a result of our own policies or, indeed, the policies of our so-called friends. we had the us inflation reduction act. maybe this would make us realise that the misnamed free trade rules are being flouted by the world’s biggest economy and that these rules are stifling most of the world. and we can continue by almost obsessively borrowing until the crash, or we can change direction. it is time to learn the lesson from the phenomenal rise in energy crisis that has put so many european citizens in critical situations motivated by geopolitical games. we need to tackle the big companies that are profiteering off the lives of people and the biggest ones who have made europe the most unsafe is the military industrial complex. yet they’re the ones who got a huge boost out of this file, which is why i voted against it.
madam president, here we go again. i was pleased to support this report from my colleague. and on the outcome of the committee of petitions’ deliberations during 2021. the focus this week in the parliament has been on increasing transparency, and rightly so. i believe that the work of the peti committee should be emphasised and publicised further. the treaties confer on all citizens the right to submit a petition on any matter within the eu’s competences that directly affects them. this provides an important avenue for eu citizens, which i have successfully used myself, on behalf of some constituents. we must ensure that eu citizens are aware of this right. to be effective, measures aimed at improving transparency and their outcomes must be communicated clearly to citizens. i welcome the acknowledgement in the report also that when citizens do petition the committee, their request must be dealt with in a timely and consistent manner. and finally, i just want to compliment yourself, president dita, for the manner in which you handled today’s voting session. it could have got out of hand. it could have become very boisterous if you hadn’t handled it so firmly. and also it does no harm to see you dealing firmly with colleague ‘snowman’ dzhambazki and basically make him put away his snowball. happy christmas to you all.
madam president, he must be looking for a big christmas present or a load of speaking time next year. but in any case, i voted for this file. i think it’s a great committee. often people are disappointed that their petitions aren’t selected and one of the things that i think we need to look at is the idea that the non-aligned members of the committee, and there are five of them, don’t have the right to nominate any petition. and i think this excludes a whole number of our citizens who would like their petitions heard. the issue was brought home very clearly to me this week when i was contacted by a ukrainian student who was very grateful to the european union for allowing him to travel and study at reduced rates in latvia and in other european countries. but since the ukrainian government changed the rules, preventing male university students from leaving the country, tens of thousands of them have been prevented from pursuing their education. and they have gone online with a really important petition – where they’ve got tens of thousands of signatures – asking for their right to education to be seen through. they’ve got the support of the european students’ unions and, indeed, the ukrainian student union. so i think this is something that we should use our offices here to help as it is a really important issue.
madam president, speaking of the need for transparency, i also think it’s incredibly important. and i want to raise an issue that shows a serious lack of it in ireland. a group of homeowners from donegal lodged a petition with the committee on petitions relating to what’s called the ‘mica scandal’, where there’s a huge lack of surveillance and regulation on quarries in donegal, and an inferior concrete block was produced which contained mica, which ended up causing serious damage to over 7 000 houses. and people are looking for some recompense from the irish government. a report was done which was really critical of how quarries were operated – critical of the lack of regulation – but then when the government published the report, they took out a lot of the harsh criticism. these people are looking for some accountability and they want the irish government held to account for their lack of transparency on this issue.
