madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a confederal europe with common objectives in foreign policy, economy, culture and defence, but without infringing the sovereignty of the nations which make it up: this was the idea of one of his predecessors, president de gaulle. unfortunately, that is not your idea, president macron. my group and i are fighting democratically but firmly against the project of a european superstate which reduces our nations to small administrative entities dominated by a cold and faceless bureaucracy. we reject the hypocrisy of wanting to deal with illegal immigration by closing the internal borders so that no one can come from france to italy, but at the same time requiring italy and the first-entry countries to keep their external borders open. europe will never be a state, but it is certainly a civilization to be loved, protected and passed on to our children, and that is what we are fighting for.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the members of the imco committee, the rapporteur for the work they have done and the members of the other committees. for the purpose of this regulation, the concept of illegal content should underline not only the principle that what is illegal offline should also be considered illegal online, but also that what is legal offline should be considered legal online. after a year of work, the digital services act has arrived in plenary and as always there is a division between those who are satisfied with the result and those who are not. i'm in the second category. the improvements made to the original text, which we have also contributed to, cannot be denied. i would like to highlight the article on accessibility requirements for services for people with disabilities: it is very important to me because i care about the hardships that our most vulnerable citizens face every day. for our society to truly be inclusive, it must be inclusive of everything. but let's get to the critical parts. first, the figure of the trusted flagger. we have strongly opposed it and called for it to be withdrawn because we wonder what guarantees of independence and impartiality this figure can have. in addition, notifications made by trusted flaggers are considered to be a-series and are given priority, whereas those submitted by any other citizen do not receive the same priority. second, the governance. the commission has too much power in the application of this regulation and despite our efforts we have not been able to get the board to balance it more. thirdly, the safety of european consumers, especially with regard to products or services from third countries. the platforms sell everything, and consumers must be able to buy safe products and services regardless of where they are produced. this is why i have strongly called for platforms that allow third country traders to trade online to be checked for compliance with eu product safety laws. fourth: the risk assessment and mitigation of risks. the text provides that large platforms must carry out at least annually an assessment of the systemic risks caused by or related to the operation and use of their services and take measures to mitigate these risks. the critical thing for citizens is that, on content and activities considered harmful but not illegal, it will be the large platform that decides the boundary between freedom of expression and the right to information with respect to the possible harm caused to users, thus leaving the platform the widest discretion. this risk is even greater when considering that such assessment can be made by automated moderation systems based on algorithms, which often contain preconceptions. in conclusion, the dsa was a great opportunity, but this opportunity was wasted. under the pretext of more control over platforms to protect citizens, their freedom of expression has been put at risk. i hope i am wrong and that there will be no regrets about some of the choices that have been made, because then the citizens will have to bear the consequences.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we surf the web, we feel free: we are free to inform ourselves, free to use new services, free to meet virtually and to share experiences and opinions. but this freedom can become an illusion or worse, a trap when it is not guaranteed and protected by a system of certain and shared rules. the first objective of a european law on digital services must therefore be to protect users, particularly those most exposed to the dangers of the network: women, children, the disabled, the elderly, affected by abhorrent phenomena such as revenge porn, cyberbullying, child pornography and online fraud. the amendments tabled by the league will provide greater protection for the most vulnerable and also for small and medium-sized businesses active on the web, but without this entailing new bureaucratic requirements, which are intended to further hinder their investments in cybersecurity at a time of great vulnerability of the system. i would therefore like to thank mrs alessandra basso for the great work she has done in committee to improve this measure, which is still inadequate in many respects. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the european parliament and the council for approval. the majority of this house has decided that the commission must continue to have enormous powers of surveillance, investigation, monitoring of large platforms and the possibility of imposing sanctions, despite the fact that the digital services act provides for the creation of a control system for each individual member state. as for platforms, they will have the power to decide which harmful but not illegal content can be removed, and they will determine the boundary between freedom of expression and the right to information. we believe that everything that threatens freedom of expression, democracy and the autonomy of states must be thoroughly studied and discussed.
mr president, madam vice-president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, it is a strange thing to have such a common understanding on such an important and difficult text, and we must therefore congratulate those who have succeeded in reaching an agreement, a broad and comprehensive compromise. it's a big deal for the dsa to update a regulation like the e-commerce regulation after 20 years. i must say, however, that the narrative we often hear in this house, that for 20 years nothing has been done, is not quite so. in the last parliamentary term there have been important interventions on sectoral legislation, copyright legislation being one of them. so i think that a step forward was a significant step forward that we're making, but you'll allow me, after a year of the proposal and after three hours of discussion, to make a joke. when i was a kid, i used to play a game called "the cuckoo dance", where you took one step forward and then you took one step back. so my fear, and the fear of my colleagues in the italian delegation of the epp of forza italia, is that we are taking a major step backwards, especially with regard to copyright legislation. so we must pay particular attention to what is happening and, in particular, to get back to being serious, there are a few points, four in particular, which raise serious questions. first of all, the discharge, which, unlike the e-commerce directive, is not only for passive and automatic technical subjects, but also for those who play an active intermediary role and who control and, above all, monetise content. then there are the due diligence obligations, the so-called "know your business customer", which is allowed only for marketplace platforms. then the stay down, the secondary control, the possibility for the platforms to perhaps remove some content. we therefore support the amendments tabled by mr verheyen and mr didier and hope that their approval will lead to a more balanced and more effective text.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, arrests of journalists, imprisonment of political dissidents, violence and street clashes: the situation in hong kong is becoming increasingly worrying. china's behaviour is increasingly a global threat to human rights. what is happening in hong kong is unacceptable and the european union's attitude towards the chinese is unfortunately subservient. china is using its growing power to silence critics. we do not want europe to bend over because it is facing a world economic giant. the continued arrest of journalists, known as "marching apples", is plunging hong kong into a constant state of repression of opinion. hong kong, once a bastion of freedom in asia and the world, has plummeted from 18th place in 2002 to 80th place in 2021 in the world press freedom index. the aim of the chinese communist regime is to bring the island up to chinese standards. china is in third place out of 180 countries, with more than 120 journalists and bloggers currently imprisoned. the suppression of rights in hong kong is a problem we also see in taiwan, tibet and towards other minorities. it is quite clear that condemnation is no longer enough, but that respect for human rights must be made a condition of any trade or political agreement between the european union and china, including economic sanctions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your re-election and to wish you well for the presidency and vice-presidency of this assembly. as regards hong kong, i really hope that this house will be united in condemning the violence of the chinese communist party. europe cannot stand by and watch beijing's continuing oppression, both in the suppression of civil rights and above all in the violence that is constantly being perpetrated. as the league we have a very clear position on this and our leader matteo salvini has also repeatedly reminded us of the importance of defending freedom in hong kong, including by demonstrating in person in front of the chinese embassy. now we're supposed to forget what happened? no, we must be even more decisive in this house and we must oppose the activities of the chinese communist party, which is also undermining the stability of the indo-pacific with its continuing military threats to taiwan and persecuting, among others, the uyghurs in xinjiang and continuing to interfere in the democratic processes of the union. the lack of cooperation with the west was also manifested in the situation of the covid virus, where we obviously did not have any information, and relations between china and europe worsened with this situation. we cannot and must not keep this secret either. for these reasons we must act with ever greater strength and absolutely without fear: europe stands with hong kong.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, women's rights are also discussed in this debate. well, on new year's eve in milan, my hometown, 12 girls were sexually assaulted. twelve is the number we have today, but the complaints are still rising. they were sexually molested by over 50 boys of foreign origin, they were beaten up sometimes for as long as 20 minutes and they were thrown to the ground, touched in every part of their body, they were violated. imagine dozens of hands on their bodies at once, unable to defend themselves. it's a repeat of what happened in 2016 on new year's eve in cologne, you all remember, with so many women attacked and molested by dozens of men. when we talk about respect for women, we must have the courage not to turn our heads the other way, and we must do so even when we discuss the image of women held by certain communities, i am talking about the islamic ones. these acts of violence, which in milan were committed by people of foreign origin, have a very clear name: in arabic, they're called taharrush gamea, which means "collective harassment". they are the children of an established idea of a submissive woman to be oppressed. these criminals, these shits are the children of uncontrolled, unmanaged immigration and are the product of a failed integration, indeed never really aspired to. we must say it loud and clear: the integration in many of the suburbs of our cities is actually non-existent and failing miserably and parallel societies are being created. many people here will say that wearing the islamic veil is a sign of freedom. i don't think so, i don't think so, i think it's a symbol of submission, it's a symbol of a woman who has no right to be seen for who she is, who can't show herself. i think of saman, the girl who was killed in italy because her pakistani family didn't want her to go around without a veil and then she also wanted to refuse, think about it, a forced marriage. but i also think about the many girls who are attacked in the family circle because they may simply want to live the western way. so as a mother, as a woman, i cannot accept the complacent silence of a certain leftist who has tried in every way to deny the connection between the violence in milan and immigration and the role of women in islamic circles. i would like to conclude by saying that, unfortunately, even in this institution we are more interested in gender language than in defending women against violence.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after a year and a half of negotiations, we have come to an end. i have never concealed my perplexity about this committee of inquiry, because from the outset it has approached animal welfare with an ideological approach, aimed at demonizing a productive and cutting-edge sector rather than actually protecting animal welfare. in europe we have some of the highest animal welfare standards in the world and they are enshrined in regulation (ec) no 1/2005, a regulation which should not be distorted but implemented correctly and strictly respected by all member states, so as to reduce breaches and infringements. we have therefore called for strict and punctual checks, especially at departure, and perhaps for them to be made faster by means of a centralised data collection system which can be easily consulted by the authorities, in order to monitor, reduce delays and cut red tape. as a group we have also proposed that specific funds be made available to modernise vehicles in terms of structure, technology and safety, so as to ensure better transport conditions: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of air quality in europe, from ventilation systems to loading and unloading systems, because there is no point in hoping for improvements if we do not give the industry the right tools to put them into practice. the problem is not solved by banning travel or limiting the duration of travel, nor is it solved by requiring the transport of live animals to be replaced by the transport of meat, carcasses or genetic material, because it is not possible: the markets are different, as are the skills and the numbers employed. it is good to reduce transport where possible, particularly when dealing with third countries which do not meet our standards, but it is not good to talk about 'replacing' live transport and even to want to finance it with the cap, by taking money away from our farmers. it is also wrong to support a plant-based diet, while abandoning meat, milk and eggs, which are part of our culinary culture and the mediterranean diet. a note of merit goes to the call for greater commitment to the protection of species not adequately covered by the regulation, including dogs and cats: we all hope that the regulation will be supplemented by provisions to ensure the welfare of our four-legged friends who are transported for commercial purposes. attention to the most vulnerable animals, such as unweaned animals, pregnant females and animals at the end of their lives, is also positive. they need to be able to rely on scientific assessments and to link transport authorisation to veterinary advice in order to reduce their stress and to protect them adequately. as always, there is a need for balance, and some of these recommendations are wavering and do not fully satisfy us. we had a great opportunity. the commission's proposal is to make a contribution to the establishment of a european animal welfare system. that's too bad.
in writing. young people are one of the most vulnerable groups affected by covid. even before the pandemic, they were facing job insecurity, unemployment, gray-zone jobs, and low wages, and the crisis has only exacerbated these problems. i am glad that the union is taking initiatives aimed at young people, such as erasmus+, the youth guarantee or alma. however, i believe that youth issues should not be limited to youth-specific programmes and remedial initiatives. we should integrate them into the union's policies. young people should also be more involved in the design of policies that affect them. when we talk about youth, we can't help but mention mental health. according to unicef, suicide is the second leading cause of death among young people. we can't let that happen. it's also significant that we're talking about this in the very same week that the government funding for the children and youth trust line was cut in my country. the union can play a role in the field of youth mental health, but the member states have the main competence and the responsibility to act. the money for the trust phone i mentioned has been found. the citizens themselves helped, which is good. but we cannot allow them to be the servants of the state in such an important matter.
written. thank you, madam president. i am particularly pleased that 2022 is dedicated to young europeans and that we are raising awareness of the impact of the pandemic on them. the number of young people suffering from anxiety and depression is on the rise, and the past two years have made the situation worse, affecting their education, health, and social life. unfortunately, conditions for many young europeans were unsatisfactory even before the pandemic struck. so this year, we need to focus our efforts not only on mitigating the impact that the epidemiological measures have left on them, but also on identifying and addressing those problems that they have faced before: unequal access to education, unemployment, low wages, but also the fear of climate change. all of these factors affect the mental health of all of our citizens, and especially young people who are just beginning to build their lives, their experiences. to succeed on this path, it is up to us to give them normal access to the labour market and to create the conditions for them to thrive in a healthy environment.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, among the categories most affected by the pandemic are young people. months of lockdown, labour market difficulties, forced closure of schools and universities and lack of social moments, have all contributed to making life difficult for young people in these two years. the initiative taken by president von der leyen to establish the european year of youth in 2022 is certainly an important step towards looking to the future with confidence. however, we must, in concert with the member states, urgently put in place economic instruments and fiscal contributions to combat youth unemployment, which is still too high in countries such as italy. in addition to work-related initiatives, increased attention must be paid to the psychophysical well-being of young people. distance learning and lack of human interaction, has caused enormous problems for our kids' psychological health, with increased suicide attempts and extreme acts. i also think it is important to pay more attention to the young people of the disabled, who are doubly affected by this series of events. greater protection and equal opportunities must be guaranteed to them to avoid further and harmful discrimination.
the minutes of the 17 to 20 january part-sessions shall be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next part-session. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at these meetings to the persons and bodies named in them. ladies and gentlemen, i wish everyone - if i have not already done so - a happy new year in retrospect, in which, i hope, we will be able to meet more than in the past year. i congratulate all those who have been given new responsibilities or whose old responsibilities have been renewed, and i wish you a happy hand. and i thank the services who have supported us during this difficult week of the session to make our work possible. i wish you all a safe journey home and a healthy return to the next partsession.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
good afternoon, dear colleagues. can i ask you kindly to sit down? the session that adjourned on 20 january 2022 is reopened.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sittings of 17, 18, 19 and 20 january are available. if there are no comments, i will deem these minutes to be approved.
a few announcements from my end. mr jérôme rivière and mr gilbert collard are no longer members of the id group and now sit with the non-attached members as from 25 january.
the renew europe and id groups have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations, and those decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
and finally, the draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents on 20 january pursuant to rule 157, has been distributed and is adopted.
as you know, today we are marking international holocaust remembrance day with a formal address by ms margot friedländer. ms friedländer, i am honoured to welcome you to the european parliament and i thank you for being here today as a witness of the holocaust. honourable members, dear margot friedländer, dear colleagues, the horrors that took place in auschwitz are unspeakable, yet we must speak. this is a day of remembrance. today, 27 january, marks our collective responsibility to remember the unspeakable atrocities committed towards all the victims of the holocaust: 6 million jewish people, the romani people, the lgbtiq communities, and many others that were stripped of their dignity, because of their ethnicity, identity, race, behaviours, or because of their political or religious beliefs. the nazi regime callously murdered 17 million men, women and children and inflicted unimaginable suffering and pain on millions more, while others’ silence stood complicit. we remember those that perished and those that survived. survivors burdened with unimaginable hardship. survivors such as zilli schmidt and zoni weisz, whom we are fortunate to have present with us online today. we remember those that, to paraphrase the title of margot friedländer’s book, had to ‘try to make a life’ in a world that tried to completely annihilate them and their families. how low humanity sank. on holocaust remembrance day, we remember crimes committed against humanity in the past, but we also remember the importance of speaking up in the present. united in diversity, we speak up against holocaust deniers, against conspiracy myths, against disinformation and against violence of every kind that targets and singles out members of our communities.because, despite decades of effort, we have not yet done enough to combat discrimination. in recent years across europe, anti-semitic attacks are increasing, and our children are no exception to this violence. only two days ago, a twelve-year-old boy from livorno in tuscany was insulted, kicked and spat on, simply because he is jewish. fear still exists, because anti-semitism still exists, and because the fundamental right to be free from discrimination, irrespective of gender, race, ethnic origin or sexual orientation, is threatened daily. we cannot allow complacency. we cannot allow impunity for acts of hatred that instil fear in members of our communities. holocaust survivor and nobel prize winner elie wiesel said: ‘i swore never to be silent whenever and wherever human beings endure suffering and humiliation. we must always takes sides.’ and the european parliament will always take a side: the side of respect, the side of human dignity, the side of equality. the european parliament will never be silent. and today, we lit up the european parliament in honour of all the victims of the holocaust. we must consciously act every day, and in whatever we do, to ensure that our communities are not marginalised by exclusion, hatred and indifference. and we must learn and we must educate. the 2005 united nations resolution that designated 27 january as the international commemoration day in memory of holocaust victims also emphasises the importance of educating about holocaust history so that the darkest chapter of european history never, ever repeats itself. the united nations resolution calls for actively preserving all holocaust sites that served as nazi death camps, concentration camps, forced labour camps and prisons. these sites, as we have seen, offer history lessons in themselves. sites such as the alsace-moselle-memorial in schirmeck – just a few kilometres away from the european parliament’s official seat in strasbourg – where, through knowledge and education, current and future generations can learn about the hunger, thirst, disease, violence and death that were part of the everyday life of holocaust victims. they can learn to never forget. today we mark 77 years since the liberation of the auschwitz-birkenau concentration camp. a liberation from evil, that signalled that there was still hope. the european project was built as a political manifestation of ‘never again’: a response to the horrors of the third reich with the ambition to integrate democratic countries together in the hope for a better future. it stemmed from the bold ideal that strength could be extracted from tragedy. that from the ashes of our common history we could forge a common destiny: a destiny where the values of peace, fairness, openness and cooperation could be instilled in us all. because this is our europe. today it is an honour for the european parliament to welcome holocaust survivor margot friedländer. your lifelong commitment to combat discrimination through initiatives like the margot friedländer award, which supports young people in standing up against modern-day forms of anti-semitism, racism and exclusion, and your lifelong dedication in sharing the message of your life, is an inspiration to us all. and for this we thank you. 40 years ago, simone veil held the same role that i hold today. the first president of a democratically-elected european parliament was herself a former inmate of auschwitz-birkenau. and so this responsibility that we must carry as a house of democracy is not only institutional, but also deeply personal. and we will honour the legacy of the holocaust victims by never forgetting, by never being complacent, and by always, always speaking up. (applause) musical interlude: ‘hallgató’ – ‘in memory of my people’ played by ferenc snétberger, guitarist
writer and holocaust survivor. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, mr president of the european council, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen! it is a great honor for me to speak to you today. a few days ago, on 20 january, an event at the wannsee conference in berlin reminded us that the national socialist leadership there had decided the unthinkable eighty years ago: the as they called it final solution, the murder of the european jews. today, throughout europe, we commemorate the liberation of the auschwitz concentration and extermination camp on 27 january 1945. this reminder is especially important today. it is not only in germany that the population has watched and done nothing to protect its jewish neighbours. in many other countries, too, little was done to save jewish neighbors from deportation. denmark was a proud exception, where the people, with the knowledge of the government, protected and saved their jewish fellow citizens. but that was the exception. the european union has a duty to help the people of the world, and to help the people of the world. perhaps without évian's failure, the wannsee conference would never have taken place. i was the only one in my family to survive. my wonderfully gifted brother ralph was taken from our berlin apartment by the gestapo in january 1943 and put on a transport to the east - he was then seventeen and a half years old. when mommy came home, the apartment was sealed, and a neighbor told her what had happened. my mother didn't wait for me. she turned herself in to the gestapo to accompany my brother. she left a message for me at the neighbors. when i come, i want you to tell me this: "i'm going with ralph wherever that may be. i want margot to try and make a life for herself. that was the last i ever heard from my mother and my brother. i was 21 years old at the time and at that moment i was all alone in berlin, without my mother, my brother and no other family members. i managed to find good people who hid me. these people did something that could have cost her her head. they shared their lodging and their food with me. i had about 16 helpers and many different shelters where i was hidden for a short time or longer - several times in difficult situations - until i was caught after 15 months in april 1944 and deported to the theresienstadt camp. many old people were also taken to theresienstadt. couples were separated, the elderly had to sleep in a small room in two-story wooden beds with straw mattresses. there was nothing but the wooden bed where one would hang his few things on a nail. there were no toilets or washing facilities. they had to go out to primitive latrines and wash at the well, even in the cold winter. they were given less food than the working people, many starved and died miserably in a short time after their arrival. in early february 1945, a transport of more than 200 men and 20 women arrived from wulkow, who had been sent a year earlier from theresienstadt to a eichmann project to build an alternate headquarters for the reich security main office. adolf friedländer had returned to theresienstadt by this transport. we met by chance in the hallway of the barracks where we both lived on different floors. i didn't recognize him because he had his arm tied in a noose, and his head and neck were also tied. when he came up, he greeted me with my name, margot, because we knew each other from berlin, from the jewish cultural association. we were so happy to meet someone from back in the day, and then we tried to get together every once in a while. in late april 1945, i was called along with others to help with an expected transport. when a long train arrived with cattle cars, we did not know what to expect. when the doors were opened, i experienced something i will never forget. people who hardly looked human fell or were pushed out of the crowded car. the living and the dead were hardly distinguishable. eyes were deep in the cavities, only the noses sticking out of the face. almost all of them were wearing some sort of striped pajamas, the prison clothes. they were just rags hanging from their bodies. instead of shoes, they wore wooden panties, many of whom had only one or no shoes left. many had swollen legs that swelled up. others were just garrisons. something fell into my arms, a human being, so weak that i had to carry him. he was light. someone grabbed my arm and said, "margot, don't you recognize me?" other but how could i recognize this figure who told me he was arnold kirchberg? they all came from auschwitz. i first heard the name auschwitz because we had always been told that the transports were going to the east. so auschwitz was the east, and these people came from there. they were sent on a death march just before the liberation of auschwitz on january 27. the ss did everything possible to prevent the survivors from falling into the hands of the russians and to prevent the allies from learning the true extent of the extermination in the concentration camps. for nearly three months, the people had been on the move, first on foot and then in long columns. they were just men, even though at first glance they seemed sexless, like skeletons. most of them had been dead for a long time, shot, starved, died of exhaustion. at some point, the last survivors were rounded up, crammed into cattle cars and sent to theresienstadt, one of the last camps that had not yet been liberated - with no food, along with typhus patients and in terrible dirt. many had not survived, but there were still hundreds who were coming to meet us. that was the moment when the east got its name, the moment we learned about the death camps, and the moment i realized that i would never see my mother or my brother again. now i had no hope. i wanted to survive because i wanted to see my family again. what was my survival worth now? many rumors that the war was soon over circulated in the camp, our mood was tense. we first noticed a change in the behavior of the ss men. they ran around, loading their belongings onto trucks. their possessions, that's all they stole from us. we were waiting anxiously. eventually, the gate opened and the first trucks left the ghetto. we could hardly believe it. were we soon free? a few days later, on may 5th, commander rahm left the camp. an ss man stood at the gate and pulled up the swastika and took it with him. they were crowded into vehicles that were still half-drivable. they rode out to the camp in a column. from the window of the barracks where i lived, i could see the road leading to prague, which was strictly forbidden, but i dared. i saw an open jeep with a red cross flag stretched across the hood. a little later, this flag was flying at the command post. a strange mood was spreading in the camp, without us knowing what was going to happen next. no one cheered, no one rejoiced, no one changed their daily routine. the ss is gone, are we free now? how does it feel to be free? we've waited for this moment for so long. now he's here, and we can, we don't want to believe it! for three days, we'll live as before. although the red cross was there, the red army had not yet taken theresienstadt. everything was holding its breath. then the russians took over. the soviet army moved along the road leading to prague, just outside the camp, from the earliest hours along open trucks, full of soldiers. tired horses were ridden by tired soldiers. now the gates were open. i'm standing at the open gate for the first time. there are no guards, no one can stop me from going out. i'm just standing there. i'm not dreaming, are you? is it possible that i survived? carefully, i take a few steps out onto the street. i don't want to leave, i just want to see if it's true that i can walk out without getting shot. next to me is adolf friedländer. we'll see each other. we will witness the liberation together on may 8, 1945. a moment we will never forget. we were free. what was my mood? was i happy? no, i don't think so, because now i'm going to find out what happened to my beloved mother and brother. how i survived theresienstadt, i don't really know. from the beginning, i have seen the ghetto as through a veil. i did what i had to do every day. now i was free, and that too seemed unreal. we stood at the gate, unable to move, to do anything. after the red army passed, it became a little quieter. we waited to see what would come next. suddenly, the place was full of doctors and nurses who were the first to try to control the typhus. the straw mattresses were burned, everything was sprayed with disinfectant. medication arrived, and we were given soap and toothpaste so that we could finally wash properly and brush our teeth. heavy trucks brought boxes and bags of food to the food pantry and kitchens, especially rice, so that the sick could have light meals. then something happened that we could hardly believe: people came into the camp, wearing large swastikas on the backs of their jackets. under the supervision of the russians, they now did the dirty and hard work that we had done. now i realized i was free. my first thought was, yes, there is a god! adolf and i sometimes went for a walk. then we sat on a bench by a river and talked about everything that moved us. one day in june, when we were sitting on our bench again, adolf asked me: "can you imagine a life with me? other adolf wanted to marry me. i always thought there was more to marriage. i wasn't in love with adolf, i was just frozen, i needed time to become human again, to feel. i've only ever felt pain and memories. adolf was the same way, maybe that pain brought us closer together than being in love. we longed for a normal life. i said, "yes". adolf gave me his father's wedding ring. wedding rings were the only thing that wasn't taken in theresienstadt. adolf carried him through the camp and saved him. i would never take it off. adolf wanted to get married as soon as possible. on june 26, 1945, we were married by rabbi neuhaus according to jewish ritual. on june 30, four days after our wedding, adolf received a telegram from his sister ilse in the united states. it gave him a new purpose. i believe it was july 10, 1945, when we left theresienstadt, this time in cattle cars, which were supposed to take us to freedom. we were in a dp camp in deggendorf, bavaria, until july 1946, and left germany in a troop transport for america, where we arrived in new york on july 28, 1946, and were warmly welcomed by adolf's sister and her husband, a cousin and friends. unfortunately, i haven't had time to write about my 64 years, from 1946 to 2010, living in new york. adolf and i had traveled a lot since the 1950s, at least 30 trips to europe. but we've only been to germany once for three days, to munich, but never to berlin. despite invitations, adolf never wanted to return to germany, and certainly not to berlin - the country of his mother's murderers. after 52 happy years of marriage, my husband passed away on december 25, 1997. now i had to take my life back. i went to the 92nd street y, the jewish cultural organization's senior club, and i took writing classes, and i started writing about my life. a documentary film director noticed this and wanted to make a film with me, and i got an invitation from the berlin senate. so in 2003, i returned to berlin for the first time. when i arrived in berlin in june 2003, i went for a walk on the first day. i stopped on a street i knew and said: "my berlin, i am so glad to be born in such a beautiful city". in 2005 the film "don't call it home" was shown in berlin about my first home visit after 61 years. i made more and more friends there. my new friends encouraged me to write about my life in my native language. after decades, i wrote down my memories in german. when i couldn't sleep, i would take a pencil and paper and go to bed and let my thoughts run wild. at that moment, memory had given me the right words. in the spring of 2008, when my memoirs were published as a book called "trying to make your life", it was the beginning of my fourth life. i was still living in new york, still commuting across the atlantic, because i was getting more and more invitations from germany for readings. and then the moment came. two years later, in 2010, i realized it: i came back to berlin when i was 88 years old. not only did i have many friends waiting for me there, but i returned with a message that i have been giving to students in my lectures ever since: after 64 years of living in america, i have come back to talk to you, to shake your hand, to ask you to be the witnesses of the times that we cannot be for much longer. it's for you. be human! people did it because they didn't recognize people as people. you can't love all people, but respect is due to everyone. there is no christian, jewish or muslim blood, only human blood. we're all the same. what's done is done, and we can't change it. it must never, never happen again. i am not speaking only for the six million jews who were murdered, but for all those who were innocently murdered by the nazi regime. it's for you, for your children, for your descendants. it's my mission. i say again, be human! ladies and gentlemen, you in this house represent millions of people on this continent, whose democratically elected representatives you are. this means a great responsibility, for even now we are all facing great challenges. i am deeply concerned to see that the holocaust, like the nazi war of conquest and extermination, is increasingly being forgotten. we're the only survivors left to tell the tale. today i see the memory of what happened being politically abused, sometimes even ridiculed and trampled underfoot. i was shocked to see, at the age of 100, how symbols of our exclusion by the nazis, the so-called "jewish star", are now shamelessly used by new enemies of democracy in the open street to portray themselves as victims in the midst of a democracy. on a day like today, we must stand together so that the memory of the holocaust remains true and is not abused by anyone. ladies and gentlemen, what's done is done. i've seen firsthand how people have denied other people their humanity. first to cut them off, plunder them, burn their temples, and finally to murder them. this can never happen again. so we must be vigilant now, not looking away as we did then. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. i had to see for myself where this was going. today, on january 27th, we remember the millions of innocent victims of national socialism. memory has tremendous meaning for us today. treating people as human beings, regardless of their skin color, religion, or background, is especially true today. humanity, tolerance and respect are more important than ever for peaceful coexistence. this is my wish on this important day of remembrance and commemoration for the world, for europe, for all of us. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
thank you very much from the bottom of all our hearts. i will now give the floor to president charles michel for his address.
president of the european council. madam president of the european parliament, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, dear margot friedländer, it is not easy for me to stand before you and speak after the power of such testimony, after the power, the intimacy, the personal character, the fierce will, the courage and the lucidity that you have expressed in this chamber, in this parliament which is the symbol of european democracy. ladies and gentlemen, i'd like to begin by expressing my admiration and my gratitude to you, ms margot friedländer. admiration for your courage and commitment to bear witness as you do today. it commands our respect and it forces each citizen, each of us here today, to reflect on our own commitment to defend and improve the society and the world we live in. and allow me to express our gratitude, dear margot friedländer, for your words of wisdom. your commitment has brought you to this parliament today, the home of european democracy, to commemorate the holocaust, when europe's jewish people were targeted for annihilation. the holocaust, the jews, home, democracy, and europe. allow me to say a few words about some of the convictions that link these powerful and resonant words. the holocaust was a european tragedy. some people, especially the younger generation, may see this event as remote and abstract, even mythical: a global commemoration of a unique, symbolic and long-ago tragedy. yet it was on european soil that this unimaginable crime was perpetrated by europeans against fellow europeans. the result of unbridled hatred. and we europeans are all heirs to this history our history. and you are all the guardians of this memory, our memory, this europe and europeans, all of us here today, have a special responsibility: the responsibility of guardians. they are sparse, and this responsibility becomes all the more consequential because unfortunately, we will not always be accompanied by survivors to bear witness. ladies and gentlemen, europe is the home of european jews, exactly as it is the home for all europeans. europe would not be what it is today without the contributions of the jewish people over many centuries, contributing to our societies, to the sciences, to the economy, to culture and to the vibrancy of our european intellectual life. europe is home for jewish people. that's why today, with anti-semitism resurging in europe, the idea that jewish people are under attack just because they are jews is absolutely unbearable. and it is why the strategy that the european commission adopted last year to combat anti-semitism and to secure a future for jewish life in europe is so vital. and this plan includes support for the creation of a network of young european ambassadors to promote the memory of the shoah. ladies and gentlemen, this parliament is a house of european democracy. anti-semitism is a denial of democracy. when we defend jewish life, when we promote jewish life along with the life of all communities in europe, when we fight discrimination, when we protect minorities, we defend european democracy. defending european democracy means fighting anti-semitism and all discrimination. it was therefore no coincidence that those who planned, organized and perpetrated the genocide of the jews were also the ones who in 1933 burned down the reichstag, the german parliament. this building was symbolically restored some 60 years later and re-inhabited by the bundestag, when democracy was restored throughout reunified germany. fighting anti-semitism today means fighting the hate speech and the conspiracy theories that have taken root and thrive, especially online. and this parliament, the forum for european democratic public debate, is a place where this essential battle is being waged. finally, i would like to return to the holocaust and the crucial role that this event plays in shaping our european spirit, our european vision. the european union is the strongest and most decisive response to the tragedy of the second world war: a project of peace, of solidarity, of shared prosperity, a political project, forward-looking and founded on solid values. and it is this tragedy, the holocaust, that has instilled in us europeans a special sense of duty: the duty to defend and promote respect for human dignity and freedom here at home and throughout the world. the duty to fight all that discriminates, all that weakens, and all that dispossesses or even excludes, as the jews have been in our european history. this duty, this fight, is no different than the fight for democracy. they are one, they are the same. dear friends, it is precisely because we have experienced the unspeakable horror of the holocaust that today we work so intensely for europe, its home to democracy. democracy: this is our struggle. for democracy is never fully won, never won forever. but it is the worthiest of battles. it requires commitment from all of us, just like the tireless commitment shown by you, margot friedländer. we would like to express to you, with all due solemnity, our admiration and gratitude for your poignant, powerful message, which gives us a shiver, which inspires us with emotion, but also with hope and strength. - thank you. - thank you. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. – president metsola, president michel, honourable members, liebe frau friedländer. i think it was hard for all of us to hold back our tears when we were listening to you – you, margot friedländer, a survivor, a witness of the greatest tragedy in european history. you told us about the images that got stuck in a young woman’s mind and in her memory; the horror you witnessed. you told us of how hard it was to find your way back to life. and yes, this was the nazis’ plan: not just to exterminate millions of people based on ethnicity, religion or sexual orientation, but also to take humanity out of the people, to strip them of all dignity, all identity, all love for life. but your testimony, margot friedländer, and your energy at 100 years shows that dignity and identity are indestructible. i can’t even imagine how hard it must be, liebe frau friedländer, to bring these memories back to the surface. and i want to thank you from the bottom of my heart. it is the greatest service, the greatest act of love for all of us and future generations. because you make us see. you make us free. our freedom is built on the memory of the holocaust. because the very reason why our union was founded lies in two simple words: never again. nie wieder. my gratitude is even greater, as a german with europe in her heart. because i feel the deep scar in my country’s history and the indelible responsibility in our collective history. we want to keep our eyes wide open. we want to understand what happened and why, so it never happens again. and you, liebe frau friedländer, made us see and made us understand. there is one thing about your life that strikes me immensely – you spoke about it. indeed, right after the war, you decided to leave germany and europe because the pain was too big and the past would never get past you. but then, 20 years ago, you decided to come back. even if the memory was still alive – in fact, precisely because the memory had to remain alive – you came back so that history could never come back. and you explained your decisions, as we’ve just heard, with the words: what happened can’t be changed. but now it’s up to you, the next generation. and yes, the next generation deserve to hear your story. they became your mission. and today i would like to tell you that your mission is our mission too. it is because of this mission that we have to come up with our thoughts and our work. and this is why we came with our first strategy to combat anti—semitism and to foster jewish life in europe. we have listened to the warning that is coming from the people like you. anti—semitism has not disappeared. it still poisons our societies. a stunning 70 percent of european jews don’t feel safe when wearing a kippah or a star of david. and throughout the pandemic, jews have been the target of all sorts of conspiracy theories and hate speech. but this time we won’t close our eyes. nie wieder. never again. preserving the memory is the first step to avoid that history repeats itself. with the strategy, we are working so that all schools in europe teach the history of the shoah. we want to raise youth ambassadors of remembrance as the next generation who will keep the memory alive. and we will encourage students to learn about europe’s jewish culture and tradition. for instance, just 10 days ago, jewish people around the world planted trees to celebrate tu bishvat, the year of trees. our children should know about it, because it’s part of our european culture and history and because it teaches us to take care of our planet and our future. liebe margot friedländer, honourable members, today we have listened to the story of how life and dignity were taken away from millions right here in europe. people were killed and humiliated, their names replaced by numbers on their forearm – and all of this just because of who they were. the union we want to build is a place where everyone can be whoever they want to be. a place where a jewish woman like simone veil, a survivor of the holocaust, can rise to become the president of this proud european parliament. a place where everyone is entitled to the same rights and is treated with the same dignity. and this is what keeping the memory alive truly needs: a continent that is finally united in its beautiful diversity. vielen dank. thank you, liebe margot friedländer, for sharing your memories with us. long live europe. thank you. (applause)
thank you president von der leyen. i ask you now, dear colleagues, before closing the ceremony, to join me for a minute of silence. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence) musical interlude: ‘kaddish’ by maurice ravel played by philippe graffin, violinistand raphael wallfisch, cellist.
thank you very much to all of you. this session is adjourned and the sitting is closed.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 27 january 2022.
the minutes of the sitting of 27 january 2022 are available. can i ask first of all whether there are any comments? it does not seem to be the case. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved.)
this week, concerns about the situation at the ukrainian border, dear colleagues, will dominate our discussions. on wednesday, high representative borrell will be here to discuss with parliament the latest developments on the ground. this will also be discussed at the conference of presidents, and our political groups in this house are currently working on a declaration on the situation in ukraine. also on wednesday, we will vote on granting eur 1.2 billion of macro-financial assistance to ukraine, to support ukraine’s stability and resilience in the current difficult circumstances. on behalf of the european parliament let me express our solidarity with the people of ukraine, as they continue to face the uncertainty of the past weeks and fear of russian military aggression. what we are witnessing is a serious threat to peace in europe. we all saw the people on the streets of kyiv, who showed that they are not afraid. now their defiance must be matched by continued european resolve and unity. the position of this house is clear – ми з україною – we are with ukraine. ukraine is a sovereign state that must be free to decide on its future for the benefit of its people. no one should undermine that right. we are united in our respect for ukraine’s independence and territorial integrity. while we urge for a de-escalation of the current tension, this parliament stands ready to support swift, forceful and concrete action. we do this in coordination with other european institutions and the international community, should the situation deteriorate. in conclusion, we owe a strong show of support to the people of ukraine and this week, this parliament will do just that.
with regard to other announcements, i have received notice from the competent authorities in italy of the election of ms camilla laureti as member of the european parliament to replace mr david maria sassoli, with effect from 12 january 2022. i have also received notice from the competent authorities in germany of the election of mr rené repasi as member of the european parliament to replace ms evelyne gebhardt, with effect from 2 february 2022. i would also like to welcome these new colleagues, and would point out that they will take their seats in parliament and on its bodies in full enjoyment of their rights as provided for in the rules of procedure.
i have also received a request from the competent authorities in greece for the parliamentary immunity of mr ioannis lagos to be waived in order for criminal proceedings to be brought against him. this request is referred to the committee on legal affairs as the committee responsible, in accordance with our rules of procedure.
maxette pirbakas and jörg meuthen have left the id group and now sit with the non-attached members as from 2 february 2022 and 14 february 2022 respectively.
the s&d and id groups have notified me of decisions related to changes to appointments within committees. those decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the report which constitutes the mandate for the negotiations is available on the plenary web page and its title will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, tuesday 15 february at midnight, that the decision to enter into negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament on the decision to enter into negotiations is made within this deadline, the committee may start negotiations.
the committee on industry, research and energy has transmitted a corrigendum to a text adopted by parliament pursuant to rule 241(4). this corrigendum will be deemed approved unless, no later than 24 hours after its announcement, a request is made by a political group, or members reaching at least the low threshold, that it be put to the vote. the corrigendum is available on the plenary web page and its title will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
since the adjournment of parliament’s session on 20 january, i have signed, together with the president of the council, three acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules of procedure. i would also like to inform you that on wednesday i shall sign, together with the president of the council, two acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
the final draft agenda as drawn up pursuant to rule 157 by the conference of presidents at its meeting of 9 february 2022 has been distributed. i have received no requests for changes to the final draft agenda. i would like to inform you that the votes are distributed along different voting sessions, taking into account the number of amendments tabled and the number of requests for split and separate votes. please note that this distribution could still be subject to changes, and the relevant information concerning the distribution of votes is available in the ‘priority information’ section on the website of the european parliament. the agenda is therefore adopted and the order of business is therefore established.
the next item is the debate on the 20th anniversary of the euro. i would invite you, dear colleagues, to watch a short video together. (a video on the history of the euro was shown in the chamber.) president lagarde, commissioner gentiloni, dear colleagues, 20 years since it was first introduced, the euro is the currency of over 340 million people in 19 eu member states. a political, financial, social project that brought people together, that challenged perceptions and cemented what europe is all about. the biggest monetary changeover in history created beneficial impacts on people, businesses and governments alike, with 78% of respondents of the latest eurobarometer survey stating that having the euro is a good thing for the european union. the single currency also unquestionably propelled europe forward, as a key player in the european and the global economy. the stability of our currency makes it attractive for businesses around the world to trade with the eu. in fact, more than half of the eu’s exports and almost 40% of all global cross—border payments use the euro. sixty other countries and territories around the world have chosen to use the euro as their currency or to peg their own currency to it. the euro is truly one of the greatest achievements of the european union. a single currency to complete the single market, guaranteeing long—term prosperity, growth, competitiveness, protection from exchange-rate volatility, and price stability. an economic and monetary union which ensures the confidence of our citizens. this is what the euro is all about. it is about european integration, unity, stability, identity and solidarity, and it is right here in our pockets as a tangible success story. when there is a vision for the future of europe and the political willingness to match it, anything is possible. and we have also seen this when the euro was faced with great economic challenges. the global financial and sovereign debt crises led to a reform of the governance structure of the european monetary union where we, the european parliament, played an important role as co—legislators. and together we acted swiftly to support our member states and stabilise our economies. two years ago, we again joined forces to provide flexible solutions to our member states, as we faced the economic challenges of the covid—19 pandemic. we took bold decisions and adopted an unprecedented eur 750 billion recovery plan – next generation eu – which is already supporting our economic recovery. this would not have been possible for the eu without the euro. the euro is resilient. nevertheless, challenges continue to lie ahead. we must ensure that the euro is fit for future generations. generations who will know the euro as their only currency. and for this, the european union must be at the forefront of green and digital transitions. with over half of green bond issuance denominated in euro, and with our plan to digitalise our economies, including by launching the digital euro, we are on the right track. we must continue on this trajectory. by reinforcing the international role of the euro we can contribute to a resilient eu banking sector and international financial system while strengthening the eu’s open strategic autonomy. with its credibility and cemented foundations, the euro will continue to grow and we will remain united. ultimately, we should never lose sight of what this project is all about. why it started, how it got us here and where it can take us. so here is to the next 20 years.
president of the european central bank. madam president of the european parliament, mrs metsola, mr commissioner for economic affairs, mr gentiloni, honourable members of the european parliament, it is a pleasure for me to be here in strasbourg on the occasion of the twentieth anniversary of the euro, which we are celebrating. it is also a pleasure to see that when the euro was launched, it was also a woman who was president and that, finally, those who would have forgotten the twenty years between the two probably feel that the european parliament is still chaired by a woman. so, the introduction of the euro banknotes and coins in 2002 was a milestone for european history, as it put as nicole fontaine said a tangible sign of european integration in the pocket and in the wallets of all europeans. there were twelve countries only to begin with, and seven more to join later on. sharing a currency is more than just simply using the same measure, the same means of payment; it is part of a common endeavour. this feeling of shared identity is actually recognised by our fellow citizens. when you ask them, when you ask european citizens what the european union means to them, what comes second is actually the euro among the list of things that they most often think of in terms of the european union. the euro has simplified the lives of many europeans those who study, those who travel, those who conduct business. it has improved the efficiency of conducting business throughout an enlarged economic zone and i'm going to mention to you two numbers. from 1990 to 2002, trade between the soontobe 19 countries of the euro area increased by less than 5% 5% more trade. if you look at the period since the euro has been introduced, trade between those same nations did not increase by 5% but by 200%. now, of course not all of it is attributable to the euro, but the fact that the exchange rate was no longer an issue that was to be discussed, put into contractual terms between parties, certainly had a role to play. the second element that i want to bring to your attention as well: as you all know, the euro is the second international currency in the world after the dollar. what maybe not all of us know so well is that in 2021 about half of total green bond issuance around the world was denominated in euros not necessarily issued from the euro area or europe, but around the world. so as you mentioned, madam president, last year we launched the digital euro project. we will investigate how a digital euro could offer a convenient, cost-free means of payment, allowing people to pay anywhere in the euro area with risk-free digital money for example, when making payments online, which preclude the use of cash. i would just like to add that, of course, this digital euro will not replace cash but it will complement cash. that is one of the reasons why we launched the process of redesigning our banknotes. the redesign is part of a long-term development process to ensure that the next generation of euro banknotes will continue to be secure, accepted and an efficient means of payment. we will keep parliament informed throughout the process, and we will seek input from citizens, through your intermediary, on the theme and design of the new banknotes before making our final decision in 2024. thereafter, the rollout of the new banknotes will be planned. the redesign of our banknotes is a unique opportunity to make them more relatable to europeans of all ages and backgrounds, thereby offering a new symbol of european integration. for more than 20 years, euro banknotes and coins have circulated smoothly. they are a tangible testament to the euro's success. the cash in our pockets reminds us that, despite our diversity, we share a common endeavor that goes way beyond our borders.
member of the commission. – madam president, madam president of the european central bank, honourable members, we are celebrating today one of the most tangible symbols of european integration and prosperity. since its launch, the single currency has come a long way. during this time, the euro area has grown from 12 countries to 19, and it will expand further in the near future. croatia and bulgaria are advancing towards this target. the euro has delivered on its promises: the promise of a strong and stable currency underpinning the cohesion of our economies; the promise to lower barriers for businesses and make it cheaper to borrow and invest; the promise to make our economies more resilient by improving the conditions for fully exploiting our single market, as president lagarde just said. during the pandemic, having a single currency has been instrumental in coordinating responses across europe and in avoiding further economic and social divergences. and today, as you remember, president metsola, four in five citizens in the euro area think that the euro is a good thing – the highest level of support since its introduction. with next generation eu, the union will become one of the major debt issuers worldwide. this will offer benefits in terms of stability and that of the european bond market, by providing a euro-denominated, safe asset, covering all maturities. and we see a huge appetite for this. as of today, we have already issued eur 78.5 billion in next generation eu bonds and every issuance was heavily oversubscribed. by 2026, we will have issued close to eur 1 trillion, providing an opportunity to establish global reference for international investors seeking to invest in euro-denominated assets. and with the issuance of up to eur 250 billion in green bonds, we will also become a world leader in the international green bond market. so today, we are celebrating, but this opportunity should also be a reminder of the need to complete and deepen our monetary union. this means completing the banking union and making further steps on the capital markets union. it also means learning the right lesson from our coordinated fiscal response to the crisis and from the unprecedented tools we have put in place. in today’s multipolar economic system, there is scope to further increase the role of the euro. in today’s geopolitical tension and uncertainty, there is scope to advance in the process of our strategic autonomy. the same political determination of those who designed and made possible the euro’s introduction, overcoming divergent views and interests, is needed now to build a stronger union.
chair the econ committee. – madam president, 20 years is an important anniversary for anyone, but i think that if we look back at all that the euro has been through, well, then we realise how special this anniversary is. at first, the introduction of the single currency in europe seemed like a risky bet. many feared it was too early. others thought that there were other priorities. there was some fear about it. and later, after the financial crisis, many thought that the euro was at risk and that a restoration of national currencies was upcoming. well, it turned out quite differently, and not only is the euro still here, but it’s stronger than ever. other member states have decided to adopt it, and others will soon be able to do so. the truth is that the euro has been the key element of the last 20 years of the union. it has complemented the single market. it has made it easier to trade and travel and live across different countries in the european union. it has boosted european value chains, strengthening our economies. it has been the prerequisite for preserving the european monetary sovereignty in a globalised world. it has represented the cornerstone of a peaceful union and a global actor after the end of the cold war and german reunification. without the euro, i’m quite sure we would be telling quite different stories. the success of the euro is not a matter of chance. its strength, its value and its very existence has constantly been guaranteed and preserved by the european central bank. over the past 20 years, the ecb has been the true guardian of the union’s currency, and i’m confident that it will continue to play its role even in the coming years of big innovations and changes. we’ve heard about some of those. but the euro’s success was also the result of a strong political will. the euro was the best investment that we could have made to ensure a stable environment for the new generations. this awareness was the fundamental element that allowed us to overcome even the most difficult moments, and we’ve heard just a few minutes ago about some of those moments. the euro has definitely brought to us many successes, but we have to also to acknowledge and to recognise that it has not delivered all the gains that it could have delivered in all the member states and to all the european citizens. and this is partly due to some national issues and partly the result of the fact that the economic and monetary union is still incomplete – as commissioner gentiloni just reminded us. so, the way ahead, therefore, is to identify the changes that are necessary to make our monetary union work for the benefit of everybody. the experience of the euro shows that even the riskiest bets, if supported by political will, can be successful and can mark a great leap forward in the history of our union.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president lagarde, since this dossier was drawn up, many things have certainly changed: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission notes that the bank's capital adequacy ratio is not a reliable indicator of the level of risk that banks face in the long term. the ambitious green objectives must also be read with pragmatism. high environmental standards must go hand in hand with economic sustainability. we must avoid that excessive rigidity, combined with a lack of realism, can benefit third countries to the detriment of european countries. smes, which account for 99% of all businesses in the european union and employ some 100 million people, need liquidity. they are the engine of economic recovery. we must therefore return to an economy in which the productive world is financed, not an economy in which finance is for finance. families need jobs and only by financing the real economy can new job opportunities be created. in this connection, mr president, you made extensive use of two terms in your last press conference on thursday 3 february and also during the monetary dialogue in the econ committee: uncertainty and flexibility. however, the markets sensed uncertainty about future choices and prompted an immediate rate hike. in the face of the falcons and doves on the ecb's board, we would like to make sure that future decisions are based on economic analysis and not on mere political processes. the ecb will be at a crossroads in the coming months and we hope that you, mr president, will be able to take the right path.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ecb has certainly acted courageously during the pandemic. the programme of purchases of government bonds and an accommodative monetary policy have helped to bring about the current economic recovery, but we would like it to be fairer to all citizens. the ecb's annual report attests to the good work done, although there are at least two major challenges ahead: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. raising interest rates too suddenly would risk a sovereign debt crisis and we cannot afford that; we are continuing to use unconventional monetary policy instruments to help businesses and households. second emergency: the ecb can help in the fight against money laundering and tax evasion. we must remember that much of tax evasion and money laundering also takes place through banks, and that they also rely on tax havens, which also exist within this europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european directives on animal welfare, despite the studies and efforts made by the european parliament, have made it possible to achieve structural changes in certain farming methods - the directives on laying hens, pigs and calves - but they have had a modest impact if we look at the general directive and the poultry directive. the most important limitation within the union seems to be the lack of uniformity: the directives do not specify in detail the requirements for compliance and control procedures, with unacceptable consequences. the european labelling systems for animal welfare, which are mainly private, are all voluntary and in fact very different in terms of their operation and design, and there is no prospect of mandatory and uniform labelling in the eu. the commission should therefore proceed with directives to make them more effective, to improve their readability and precision and to bring them into line with the member states. the health crisis reveals the importance of proper livestock management, including for our health and that of our children. we listen to industry and medical professionals to find a definitive, pragmatic and realistic approach to both breeding and commercial practices.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur and the european ombudsman for their work. over the years, the ombudsman's recommendations and role have brought citizens closer to the institutions, but important steps still remain. all too often the eu institutions, bodies and agencies do not fully and consistently implement the ombudsman's recommendations, particularly on transparency. full transparency at all stages of the eu legislative process is essential to promote the democratic rights of citizens, as well as preventing conflicts of interest and corruption. in particular, the eu institutions that were at the forefront of the pandemic should have acted with utmost transparency. it is unacceptable that the purchase price of vaccines and anti-covid pills is still a secret today. european citizens need to know how much the european union has paid and therefore how it has negotiated with big pharma. our credibility is at stake. that is why i would like the commission to listen to the ombudsman and to make public the messages between her president, ursula von der leyen, and the ceo of pfizer.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the european ombudsman for her work, in particular for the great effort she has devoted to deepening the european union's response to covid-19. when emergency action is required, the risks to transparency are increased. for example, we still cannot know the full contents of the contracts for covid vaccines. we can't know if there's any conflicts of interest, or the figures paid. on conflict of interest and revolving doors, an obvious case involved the executive director of the european banking authority, who became the ceo of a financial lobby. this is a serious matter, not least because for a period of time the former official still had access to confidential documents of the european institution. we have to change the contracts. when accepting a job, the executive should know that he will not be able to work in a particular role in the private sector for a certain period of time, and on that point, mrs o'reilly, you will have our support. there must be no derogations or discretion, the credibility of our institutions is at stake.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am afraid we have some problems of scale, in the sense that there are international advisory reports estimating that potential offshore wind production will be proportionally much lower than the 60 gigawatts target that the european union, alone, wants to achieve by 2030. i have a question that is not a secondary question. the 800 billion euro of investment that the commission wants to mobilise by 2050 - where do we expect to find it? we should not underestimate the problems of coexistence with other maritime activities, such as fishing and shipping. nor do we minimize the problems of maintenance costs on the high seas, the wear and tear that wave impact and salinity inevitably bring to offshore wind farms. i say it again with conviction: renewables can be the future and it is right to promote them, but a real and painless energy transition needs above all programmable sources and bills that are affordable for businesses and households. so if we do not take this realistic approach, we are left with good, expensive intentions that often break down with cold reality.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the best way to fight cancer is to prevent it from developing in the first place. that is why my group and i have concentrated very much on the prevention aspect. i was particularly concerned about the protection of our children and i am glad that this is reflected throughout the report. children are becoming obese, which can lead to cancer in old age. the figures are more than alarming. the industry is now unable to stop its efforts to supply sugar, salt and fat products to adolescents. it is therefore only logical to prohibit advertising of such products for children. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a serious accident. and that applies especially to parents. of course, the tightening of consumer protection is always a fight against economic interests. but if it is scientifically proven that, for example, all alcohol consumption, even in moderation, is harmful, why should we not warn against it? this does not prevent anyone from drinking their glass of wine, but it protects young people in particular and informs consumers. i wonder what the objection is to this, if not lower sales or lower product placement. the label must not be reduced to a promotional information. and i have to be very clear here: no profit before health. the report does not only cover obvious risk factors for cancer, such as alcohol and cigarettes, but also other cancer-causing factors, such as environmental toxins and influences. prevention of cancer also involves reducing air, food, water and soil pollution, as well as exposure to chemicals. a healthy diet is no less important. however, this report goes beyond prevention. it also places a clear emphasis on access to cancer treatment for all. protecting yourself from cancer and getting good treatment and medication should not be a question of your wallet. we also advocate the right to be forgotten and stronger crossborder cooperation and better data exchange, especially in the treatment of childhood cancer. in short, we have a strong and ambitious report. i call on my colleagues not to weaken it. and i say to the commission: go beyond that!
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, as coordinator of the identity and democracy group, i have been able to demonstrate during the year and a half of operation of our special committee that coordinated european action has brought little or no added value to the national plans of certain countries, in particular france, whose current 10-year strategy, the fifth part of a very successful action, justifies its being taken as a model for this text. this model is good in that it prioritises prevention, both in the exposure of each person to all carcinogens and in excessive individual behaviours, such as excessive smoking, excessive drinking, junk food or sedentary behaviour. this is more than 40 percent of cancers that could be prevented. yes, also, mass screening and early detection, which are indispensable tools. yes, also, to targeted and holistic research into the causes, diagnoses, treatment and follow-up of our patients. yes to data exchange, particularly useful in cases of rare cancers. yes to access to quality care for all, without geographical or financial gaps. yes to the right to be forgotten, especially for young survivors. yes to caregiver support, and yes, in general, to any idea of common sense. unfortunately, in the course of the text, in the name of 'equal care for all', which is essential but not so defined, you can take advantage of it to prepare a legislative path to supranational constraints, which we consider unacceptable. the use of alcohol or tobacco is akin to compulsion, even if it is only a matter of celebratory behaviour, reward or, for some, even the forgetting of poverty. the european wine sector itself is in danger. what about food, where meat is increasingly stigmatized, all in favor of artificial food, which would have a perfect nutritional content? what about support for hera in the fight against the risks posed by the nrbc which is imposed on us by the covid-19 crisis and which foreshadows the europe of defence, which we do not want? what about the single market for generalised medicines, which has been seen as a fiasco in the purchase of vaccines? finally, what can be said of the tendency of the text to endanger even certain articles of the feu treaty, including article 168? so throughout our work we have been in a certain state of expectation while working together rigorously. it now appears that some of the amendments proposed in plenary would lighten the announced legislative rigor and might perhaps, if adopted, lead us to accept a text which i have said, once again, should have remained national.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, this is a great and powerful document, i believe, and i’m proud to be part of it. i’m already using it, even if it’s not finalised, to put pressure on the italian regional authorities to increase the screening programme and to increase the funding on new screening and therapeutic techniques. also, we already started locally, based on these programmes, to increase the quality of life of cancer patients through eras (enhanced recovery after surgery), which takes into account the entire system before and after the hospital stay. on the other side, i’m not happy with some decisions regarding prevention. i presented some amendments to correct this. first of all, the increase in taxation and limitation for alcohol and cigarettes has always been a counter—productive approach, potentially causing illegal and criminal activity but also really bad behaviour, especially in the poor sector of the population. second, i am a strong believer that there is a difference between moderate and excessive alcohol consumption. this was a big discussion, but we all know that the mediterranean diet has shown an increase in lifespan through the general population. third, i strongly believe that alternatives to traditional smoke is an important tool to reduce smoking in europe. it’s never been shown a positive outcome in reducing bad habits through taxation, as we have seen, and through banning marketing, as we have seen for cigarettes. to conclude, the report, again, is a very powerful tool, and we should all use it in a very aggressive and powerful way for the good of all european citizens.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat cancer, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account. cancer is the disease of this century and the european union must fight it with all its might, as it did with the coronavirus. we need concrete measures, more investment in research and no more inequalities in treatment. everyone should have the same opportunity for treatment, and i'm thinking particularly of children. the 10 flagship initiatives and 32 supporting actions envisaged in the european parliament's report deal with causes such as smog and malnutrition, but we must avoid easy slogans. responsible wine consumption is quite different from alcohol abuse. let us focus on promoting new, healthy and balanced lifestyles, prevention, early diagnosis and quality of life for the sick. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. today we dedicate this day to them, we dedicate our commitment as european legislators to them. together we can defeat this terrible evil.
the fight against cancer is a battle that must unite us across our political differences. as for my personal history, it was a great honour to be part of the beca committee. but this must only be the starting point for a determined fight against cancer. however, one thing is the attention paid to prevention, treatment, early diagnosis, which i support and will always support one hundred percent, but another thing is the way in which some products are criminalised, one of them being wine. it is unacceptable to think of alcohol as being on the same level as wine, the consumption of which in the right quantity is even recommended in a balanced diet. this would risk bringing the entire wine sector to its knees, not only the italian but above all the european one. the three million places at risk in the european union as a whole are, and that is why i am in favour of the fight against cancer, while i am totally opposed to anything that penalizes, especially at this delicate time, wine and made in italy. i would like to remind you that because of this pandemic, there are so many cancer patients who can't be operated on because the intensive care units are still occupied, they're still full. in italy alone, 4 million checks were postponed, 4 million checks! this is the real challenge we must overcome, and not penalize entire sectors, such as wine, with labelling that has no scientific basis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this report unfortunately contains an indiscriminate attack on the wine industry, it has hit an entire production sector. we are the europe of regions, of local excellence and of particularities, which cannot all be put in the same pot. responsible consumption of wine, of quality wine such as the italian, cannot be considered the same as the abuse of alcoholic beverages and cannot be compared to smoking or tobacco. the black letter 'f' that is used to mark our national wines, our local products, in order to encourage large-scale distribution, is damaging the work of thousands of farms and family businesses which, i would remind you, with passion and love for their land, cultivate the vines and produce our wines, which are known throughout the world. i would invite those who are making this crazy proposal to drink responsibly a glass of good friulian wine, a good ribolla gialla, a prosecco doc, all excellent wines from my land, and then to visit our farms, made by proud entrepreneurs who, do not doubt, will also teach you the education, moderation and responsibility to avoid harmful risky alcohol consumption. this is clearly the way to go, not the useless, misleading and, yes, harmful labels like nutriscore.
the fight against cancer is a difficult challenge that must be met with courage and determination. as a doctor, i've always fought to raise awareness about prevention, and that can be done by providing higher quality care, ensuring access to essential medicines and opening up to new technologies. however, there are some points which need to be clarified, particularly with regard to the consumption of alcohol. the european commission also talks about reducing harmful alcohol consumption as a key priority in the european plan to beat cancer, and i think it is right to determine which habits and foods are harmful to health. but moderate use and harmful use of alcohol, and therefore abuse, are not the same thing. this should be clear from the text, otherwise a very important economy and culture for our country is seriously endangered. the mediterranean diet is a precious treasure that is part of our lifestyle and provides us with a rich and healthy diet, including responsible consumption of wine. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the wine sector is not affected by the increase in alcohol consumption. so let's promote healthy lifestyles, healthy eating habits, and join together once and for all in the fight against cancer.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank all the colleagues who have contributed to the drafting of this document. we are doing so much to prevent these diseases, but we still have a long way to go to treat them, which in some cases are fortunately becoming chronic, but in others, unfortunately, still carry with them all their deadly potential. cancer is a complex disease. improving his care requires a multidisciplinary and collaborative approach, which always puts the patient and his needs at the centre. dedicated units, such as breast units or pancreas units, the latter still in the embryonic stage, carry the hub and spoke model and are the organizational reference that guarantees equity and rapid access to care. however, this model is only viable if supported by appropriate digital technologies and with better data sharing facilities, which are necessary to be able to follow patients constantly and scrupulously. it is on these new technologies, thanks also to the objectives of the next generation eu, that we can and must make a common effort. finally, let me draw attention to the need not to demonize products which are not carcinogenic. i am thinking of a case which has been mentioned by many of my colleagues, namely wine. we are instead promoting a healthy lifestyle and responsible consumption of a drink which is part of our european cultural and historical heritage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr borrell, the member states, together with the european union, european citizens and european businesses, face major challenges in their relations with africa. it is a question of balancing chinese economic expansionism and trade and of seizing together with the african peoples all the opportunities for a balanced social development, but keeping in mind that it is imperative to counter the asymmetrical threats of russia, to counter the spread of authoritarian regimes that use the military instrument irresponsibly, and to cope with a growing number of migrants and refugees, whose volumes and needs are certainly beyond the control of european states. in short, big security problems along with big opportunities, but everything we do today is too little. we need to deepen the exchange of information in parliament's work, in the work of the commission, in order to have a clear idea of the actions to be taken, to look with a little optimism at the continent of the future from the point of view of development and the economy, without forgetting the great values of the european union and of dialogue with democratic institutions, in order to promote freedom and democracy on that continent.
madam president, dear high representative, this week’s summit is an important opportunity for eu-africa relations. we can lay the foundation for a renewed and deeper partnership. we should move away from the old donor-recipient mentality and head towards a partnership on equal footing. more and more external actors find their way to africa. we require an eu strategy that will increase our visibility and preserve our achievements. an economic partner, the eu should actively support regional, economic and political integration in africa. this will boost economies and education, foster job creation and enable sustainable development. the eu is also a security partner. recently we have witnessed several uprisings and coups d’etat in africa. we need to create conditions for stability and peace so our african partners can take ownership of their own security. african stability leads to european security. with the shared history and facing the same global challenges, africa is and will remain a key partner of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a new model of relations with the african continent is strategic and indispensable. we must move from the logic of development aid to a genuine partnership based on strategic cooperation. this means ensuring the conditions for sustainable development on the african continent, protection for natural resources and for the people, guarantees for human rights, progress in social rights. all of these conditions are dramatically lagging behind, because too many have looked at the great continent of africa as a place to be plundered or conditioned solely by fear of migration flows. the pandemic, which we are still forced to deal with, should have taught us to look at the global scale of the problems, and yet we are still dramatically under-reporting what we are doing to actually increase vaccinations in africa. the suspension of patents, technology sharing and an additional solidarity fund for covax are now absolutely necessary, urgent and consistent measures in this respect.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank president mcallister for his report. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to respond to the challenges of the pandemic in a way that is consistent with the principles of the united nations charter. mr borrell, yesterday president lagarde made clear reference to negative factors affecting the well-being of our citizens, such as logistical bottlenecks and energy costs, pointing out that geopolitical tensions have increased and that high energy costs could put a stronger brake than expected on consumption and investors. in other words, the well-being of europeans is constantly being eroded and we are getting poorer. this is a fact which weighs heavily on european foreign policy, on our capabilities, influence and ambitions, as we have shown for example in afghanistan. we are moving towards a new global order, which will be defined by competition among the major powers. the kind of relationship we have with china, which has become more authoritarian at home and more aggressive abroad, is clearly the driving issue. but we have finally reached, thanks also to my political part, the realization that we must continue, we can continue, to negotiate with china only from a position of superiority in terms of value, economic, technological and military. and we're not going to do it alone, we're going to do it systematically, with the united states and other developed democracies like us: japan, korea, india, the united kingdom and others. and we won't be alone on this journey. many countries in africa, latin america and asia will have to make clear choices of field. on russia, i recommend that we pay more attention to how putin exercises his power. i am pleased that our two relations, in line with my political views, clearly recognise that turkey is a threat to peace and that this process must now be stopped. in that regard, i propose a panel of international jurists to stop him.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are talking about democracy and human rights today. well, the right of the child, from birth, is "to be registered immediately, to know his parents and to be raised by them". these are the words of the convention on the rights of the child, which also adds an obligation for states to take measures to prevent the trafficking of children, for whatever purpose and in whatever form. i think these words are clear: the phenomenon of surrogacy cannot be in any way a human rights issue. but today this hemicycle would like to take a step back. in 2015, the european parliament condemned surrogacy as a threat to women's dignity, while today it would only condemn commercial surrogacy. there is no such thing as a charitable surrogate mother, there is no such thing as a surrogate mother who does not involve the reproductive market, with lawyers, clinics and intermediaries. there is no true altruism when a newborn is ripped from the womb that has nurtured and nurtured it for nine months and the woman's body is reduced to a means to an end. i therefore call on you to condemn all forms of surrogacy and to support the proposal we have put forward as the id group, so that this parliament can finally take a clear stand on the question of slavery in the third millennium.
mr president, 60 years ago, the universal declaration of human rights was approved, and it set out 30 freedoms that we should all enjoy – freedom of expression, freedom from torture, the right to equal protection before the law. but last week, the economist intelligence unit noted in its annual report that just 6 % of the world’s population live in full democracy. and last year, freedom house noted that 86 % of countries have stagnated or regressed in relation to human rights and democracy, and these are astonishing figures in 2022. what happened to the end of history? but what absolutely amazes me is that in this chamber, especially in the far left and the far right, there are meps that make excuses for russia and its autocratic allies, and they make those excuses under the protection of the very same democracy that russia seeks to destroy. this has to be called out at every opportunity. our democracies depend on it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the overall picture of respect for human rights is alarming. we are seeing a backsliding in the rights of women, children and the lgbt community, an increase in human trafficking, cases of forced labour and arbitrary detention, and a curtailment of the rights to full democratic participation. the european union must make its voice heard even more and must be much more consistent. for example, consistency would require us to change our immigration policies, considering the conditions in which thousands of people live on europe's doorstep to be unacceptable. we think of what is happening in libya, in bosnia, or of the guilty complicity of our institutions between poland and belarus. consistency would also oblige us not to shake the bloody hand of al-sisi when he comes in the next few days for the summit between the european union and the african union, a figure to whom we should remind of the enormous responsibilities in the field of human rights violations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as is unfortunately often the case in this house, an important subject is being used for cheap propaganda. i think it is essential, however, to analyse the link between human rights and corruption, as discussed in the text, even if in some parts the approach used is abstract and contaminated by too much ideologisation, but we know this. for example, i believe that it would be interesting and necessary to look more closely at the issue of corruption in the field of the reception of asylum seekers. corruption in the protection of human rights in this field is no longer tolerated. it is well known that this type of activity has been at the heart of numerous illegal phenomena, generating not a few damages to public bodies and to people who really need international protection. too many have become rich through corruption in this area. issues such as these should be at the heart of parliament's action. let us put aside our ideologies for a moment and act decisively and pragmatically against the corruption of those who claim to be protectors of human rights and the most deprived, but whose only interest is to plan acts of corruption in order to enrich themselves.
in the name of the id group. the safety of toys is of great importance to us, because it is directly linked to the protection of the health of children, who are our future. the work of the imco committee has been positive and we have addressed important issues such as the safety of the chemicals used, product surveillance in the market and the effects of the application of new technologies to connected toys. it would be appropriate, as requested by the commission, to introduce new technologies, such as blockchain, to enable the traceability of products and the identification of unsafe products, while protecting the safety of our consumers and facilitating the work of the competent authorities, who would receive detailed and up-to-date information on products and their traceability. i am pleased that the text has dealt with the subject of children with disabilities. i hope the commission will take this into account, since toys are very important for psychological and physical growth. unfortunately, toys for frail children are difficult to obtain, and cost much more than generic toys, as they require expensive and complex adjustments. but they are important because they increase the collaboration with the child, which becomes the protagonist of the therapeutic activity, and they are useful for social inclusion. life is more fun when you play. the real winner of a game is not the one who arrives first, but the one who has the most fun, and we hope that our children can always have fun with safe toys.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2022 is the european year of youth. i think that this recognition is only on paper. this is demonstrated, for example, by the fact that more than half of the traineeships are unpaid. half of the young people in europe who start their working lives do not receive a salary, and this is exploitation. so let us write a new page in european history, let us create a legal basis which is binding on all member states, ensuring fair remuneration for apprentices, trainees and all young people. we bring rights to all places where there is a young man. each of us is called to do our part. that is why i am carrying out a project to set up a number of genuine european workshops in my own country. european workshops are places of encounter and exchange where active participation is built, places where opportunities, workshops and exchanges of good practice are promoted. the european union needs its young people, but young people also need a new europe.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr secretary of state, dear mr margaritis, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we in the epp group have been very happy to support the initiative of mr dragoş pîslaru to place this issue prominently in parliament. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commissioner has taken the initiative to present this report to the house. a programme like erasmus+ is closely interwoven, an important part of the success story of this european union, but of course, the self-pat on the shoulder must not be at the forefront of this debate and also this year, but the forefront must be to address the concrete problems of young people in europe. for example, the question of unpaid internships is a very important one. but we in the epp group have always been clear: if internships are necessary for school and university education, we do not insist on payment. but what we don't want is for internships to displace regular employment. and that is why it is important that we have clearly addressed this point here once again. i would like to make one final point with regard to youth unemployment. it has already been pointed out that in some member states it is still a threat, an existential threat. and the real question for us is: how can we, in dialogue with the member states, ensure that in countries where youth unemployment is extremely high, we bring young people to countries such as germany where there is a shortage of skilled workers and where there are unfilled training places? this could be a win-win situation for both sides, at least for a period of several years. and i am sure that we as the eu, as parliament, can once again make an important contribution to this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the pandemic has put a stop to moments of sharing and meeting, to spaces of participation, work and sociality. in this unprecedented scenario, young people have been among the most penalized subjects, with serious consequences for their psychophysical well-being. inequalities and difficulties in accessing basic rights such as education and healthcare have increased. 2022 is the european year of youth. it can and must be the year of recovery for young europeans who have put their lives on hold for too long. we cannot simply celebrate events. this year is the opportunity to say enough is enough about unpaid internships and training-based internships. parliament has already asked for this in two resolutions and we are now asking the commission to submit corresponding proposals. it is an opportunity to focus on the expectations and desires of the youngest, to put them in the training and working conditions to fulfil themselves. if we kill desire and expectation, only resentment will remain. we invest in youth participation and leadership and we will get back a better society. we must make 2022 the year of youth. we need to be more ambitious and up to the challenge of the pandemic. it is now up to us to make the european year a success. i want to remember giuseppe lenoci, 16, and lorenzo parelli, 18, who died tragically during their internship. my condolences to their families and their comrades.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union hopes that the european year of youth will lead to greater involvement of young people in society, in politics and in decision-making. but apart from the propaganda, it is quite clear that europe is not able to hear and understand the difficulties of young people. i am thinking, for example, of the growing phenomenon of baby gangs, which in many european cities are a growing plague and a serious danger to the safety of citizens. the risk of emulation, also fuelled by social media, is very high. baby gangs grow up in the backdrops of abandoned suburbs and, very often, they are linked to real problems of lack of integration. in fact, these gangs are gaining strength among the second generation and there is no doubt that inclusion and integration are a mirage in certain communities, especially in the islamic ones. we have seen cases of unprecedented violence and gravity, such as those of new year's eve in milan, with over a dozen girls molested by young men of north african origin. i also point out that there is a dramatic increase in foreigners in juvenile prisons. consider that in italy, my country, more than half of the prisoners in juvenile prisons are foreigners. that's a higher percentage than the percentage of adult foreign prisoners. the new europeans cannot be represented by those who have no desire to respect our laws and our values. the left in this case, as in others, pretends not to see the reality or worse minimizes it, linking it, as we have heard, to covid. i mean, that's an excuse that can't be supported. we cannot ignore the alarming loss of the centrality of the family, which is no longer held up as a model, often in favour of characters, such as some rappers, who often send messages of complacency towards crime and violence.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must take part in presenting its priorities to the 60th session of the un commission on the status of women. well, let's say that the european institutions have shown that they have an image of the woman that i think is frankly shameful. we go by order. in november, the council of europe launched a campaign, which was thankfully withdrawn because of the justified protests, entitled "beauty is in diversity", as freedom is... (the president cut off the speaker's hand and held up a sign.)
in the name of the id group. yes, but these documents are produced by the commission. all right, i'm wrapping this up. in recent weeks, the european commission presented another poster at the conference on the future of europe, entitled 'the future is in your hands', with the image of a veiled woman, this one. i don't know if you remember it, it was the commission. yeah, i put it away, but it's everywhere. either you are ashamed of it, or i will tell you that this is the image of women for the european commission today. i agree with you, we should take it down. it is indeed sad that in 2022, for europe, the muse of various media campaigns is a muslim woman wearing a veil, because it means backsliding on rights, archiving our values, our culture and our identity simply to please the muslims. i agree with you! but if that is what you call the future of europe, i find that absurd and shameful!
mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the main topics of the united nations conference will be climate change, the environment and the reduction of the risks associated with natural disasters. these are troubling issues to which women are particularly exposed. women have a crucial role to play as agents of change, able to help humanity as a whole to overcome these and other problems of our times. for this to happen, gender equality issues must be at the heart of policies. it is essential to strengthen the presence of women in decision-making centres, both in the public and private sectors. their entrepreneurial empowerment should be encouraged and their participation in all fields related to, for example, engineering, science and innovation should be promoted. we need the capabilities of everyone to achieve our goals, both in the fight against climate change and in all the other challenges we face today, including building more just societies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a debate on the impact of climate change on women, and i cannot see how global warming can have a different impact on women. i also think that there is a discriminatory view of women in this text, such as when you overlap their status with that of lgbtiq, ignoring the fact that a woman is a woman, regardless of who you love or who you are sexually attracted to. in another passage, the council is asked to recognise that there are certain occupations which are typically female, such as care work, and that these occupations are carbon neutral, and here we are talking about surrealism. that is a pity, because today could have been an opportunity to talk about wage inequality, violence against women, the violation of the rights of girls, reproductive exploitation. but this debate is a joke that doesn't even make sense.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for being here tonight. perhaps this debate deserved a moment of greater attendance, but it was obviously not possible. you are a politician with a great deal of experience in government and you have seen what has happened this year. i am part of a party that has decided not to just say no, no, no, as it could very well have chosen to do. we made a choice in my country to be part of a government at such a difficult time, which also had to make important, serious and sometimes conflicting decisions, or which did not satisfy us and perhaps did not fully respect my ideas. but, without offending voltaire, what happened this year was born of a very concrete need: we had the need for a standard instrument because of certain measures that were introduced suddenly by some member states, i am thinking of brenner in austria, when the lines of lorries made it necessary to reply to a document in german certifying the negative attitude of these workers, and so we took responsibility in a great many political forces, almost all of them here, to adopt a tool which, however, contained within it as many as 15 references to non-discrimination. i wonder, since there is often talk about whether or not the law of the european union prevails over that of the national states, why the european commission has entrenched itself behind a "ah but yes, but then the member states took other roads". if that instrument was limited to 30 june this year, it is precisely because it is an extraordinary instrument, born at an extraordinary time and which we must overcome. so i'm not in favor of your renewal. the situation has improved a great deal and this does not mean that we have to stop the vaccination campaign, as those who deal with these matters will tell us, but in some countries we have had a real creation of different levels of citizenship. who has made different choices than me, because they must have such limited access to rights in countries like mine, just because i have three vaccinations and they don't? if we have a deadline, i repeat, there is a reason. i believe we can overcome this instrument. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am honoured to finally be here today after more than a year of work to present the fourth revision of directive 2004/37/ec on the protection of workers from carcinogens and mutagens. it has been a long and sometimes complicated process, but i have worked with dedication and commitment to bring about the amendments to the directive for which i am the rapporteur. i did so in the knowledge that europe can take concrete action to improve the working conditions and health of workers. my own personal history makes me particularly sensitive to the question: i've worked in health care and in the last few years i've had to fight three cancers and i've only recently finished treatment. these experiences have had a major influence on my political commitment from the first day in this parliament. i have worked with dedication and with the knowledge that cancer can be defeated and my commitment to the special committee against cancer is an example of this. i have discussed this with everyone, with the social partners, with the companies and with the unions. i think it is essential that this report gives concrete answers to the workers and citizens of europe who have been waiting for answers to safety at work for too long. cancer is the leading cause of work-related death in the european union. in fact, 52% of work-related deaths are due to occupational cancers. the european commission has made the fight against cancer one of the priorities of the five-year period 2019-2024. the commission estimates that 40% of cancers in europe are preventable. increased worker protection, together with a reduction or elimination of hazards, goes in the direction of reducing workers' exposure to dangerous substances. this amendment is the fourth legislative proposal for the directive and aims to establish new occupational exposure limit values for three substances: acrylonitrile, nickel compounds and benzene. the new amendment to the directive, as proposed by the commission, aims to ensure a new level of occupational protection for over one million workers across europe. the sectors concerned are the oil, textile, manufacturing, construction and chemical sectors. during the discussion new proposals were put forward, all of which were taken into consideration. it is with great satisfaction that the directive known as cmd will henceforth be called cmrd. in fact, we have added to the substances already provided reproductive toxicants, that is, substances harmful to reproduction. not only do these substances fall within the scope of the directive, but we have also drawn up a list of 11 substances which have harmful effects on fertility. this is a great victory for the protection of the health of workers, especially those working in the health sector. it is estimated that at least 2 million people in europe are exposed to these substances. another major goal has been reached with regard to dangerous medicines. in fact, there are several drugs, some of them fundamental to the fight against cancer, that can have serious effects on those who handle them and those who prepare them. for the first time we have been able to open up the debate on this subject. this is a huge step forward for the entire hospital industry. every year, 12 million healthcare workers in europe are potentially exposed to dangerous medicines. i think of the doctors, the nurses, the lab technicians, all the people who work in hospitals. i would like to thank them for being on the front line of the fight against the pandemic during these difficult years. the commission will have to define these medicines, draw up a list and give guidelines. we have also asked the commission to prepare an action plan to include 25 more substances in the directive and to address crystalline silica, which can have serious long-term effects. despite the difficulties in carrying out this report, we are here today with an excellent result, which was expected by all those involved in the decision-making process: workers, companies and governments. we have all acted with one common objective, the health of workers, and i believe we have made a huge step forward in ensuring greater protection and safety.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in italy we have 1 200 deaths at work every year, an average of three a day, a real daily massacre. these losses add up to 8 000 deaths per year from exposure to carcinogens at the workplace, which occur in silence and with the utmost indifference of institutions, the media and society. at least 5% of these malignancies are due to exposure to carcinogens at work; only 20 percent of these cancers are identified and recognized as such, with the effect of destroying not only the lives of those who have them, but also their families, who are often left completely to fend for themselves. the agreement we are about to vote on strengthens the levels of protection against carcinogens in order to protect workers and prevent the formation of cancers. and finally, i say we do it with a different approach, because we've learned from the pandemic that health can't be considered a cost, but a fundamental investment for individual well-being and the common good. social justice is therefore more closely linked to the inalienable right to health and dignity than ever before, a prerequisite for a truly equitable and sustainable recovery that leaves no one behind.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened very carefully to your speeches. i believe that this report was a tribute to all european citizens who have been affected by cancer at work over the years. i thank the council, i thank the commission, i thank all my colleagues. i would like to thank the former president for the work we have done together. thank you, lucia! today, together, we have added an important piece to the fight against cancer, leaving our political colours behind. today is a great day for european workers. thank you, sir.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, women in islamic fundamentalist regimes are the ones who pay the highest price. i have before my eyes the images of a shocking video, where a husband who beheaded his 17-year-old wife, accused of adultery, walks through the streets smiling, exposing his head like a trophy. in iran, a man who kills his 14-year-old daughter faces eight years in prison; a woman who takes off her veil risks up to 24. yesterday i met two brave women, who are part of the opposition to the iranian regime, and they gave me this beautiful book. i've heard some very disturbing things. (the speaker shows a book and is therefore interrupted by the president.)
author. in this book there are the faces of the young people and they are just some of the 120,000 political opponents killed by the regime. the european union has a duty to help the people of the middle east. boys and girls, mostly students, killed in their prime by a ruthless regime. these women who are fighting for the freedom of their people are very brave, because they can't even call their relatives in iran because they risk being sent to the gallows. since the election of ebrahim raisi as president, there has been a significant increase in the number of executions, with over 270 people hanged, including 11 women. raisi was a member of the 1988 death commission, ordered thousands of death sentences, and, as head of the judiciary, ordered the suppression and killing of protesters in 2019. we, the members of the european parliament, ask the high representative to reiterate to iran that any improvement in economic relations must be conditional on the cessation of iran's flagrant violations of human rights, including its arbitrary use of the death penalty. we think of many political prisoners, such as mrs maryam akbari monfared, imprisoned for 13 years without a day's leave because she opposed the execution of her brother and sister, forcibly disappeared and executed in 1988. what is europe doing? until a few years ago, he even put the opposition to the regime on the list of terrorist organizations, perhaps for economic interests, because the power of the ayatollah is very strong and the propaganda reaches our house. just the latest scandal. in august 2021, when ebrahim raisi was sworn in as the new president of iran, in front of him, in addition to the italian parliament and the representatives of 73 countries including china, the hamas staff, who we remember are terrorists, there was also an official of the foreign service of the european union, secretary enrique mora. what a shame! an entire region, the middle east, is held hostage by iran, which insists on putting pressure and fear on the only country that europe can really count on: the israel. you can't confuse enemies and friends, allies and adversaries. the ayatollahs' iran is not and will never be a country on which we can rely, as the question of its nuclear programme shows. why does iran want the bomb, if not to use it as a weapon of terror? i come from tuscany, the first state in the world which, on 30 november 1786, thanks to the grand duke peter leopold of lorraine, abolished the death penalty. human life is sacred, and to think that the power to kill is in the hands of a state that, moreover, uses it to crush dissent is inhuman. the war for energy resources is becoming more and more bitter. we cannot allow iran's energy power to override our values, we cannot be held hostage by a country that is a threat to international security.
mr president, i am very pleased to be able to comment on this point. i have been dedicated to death penalty for years in my political activity, i have been fighting against it, and i have to say that what is happening in iran at this moment is absolutely unacceptable. and the number that's been repeatedly mentioned here, 275 executions last year, is truly unprecedented. next to china, it is the country that uses the death penalty the most, and it is appropriate to use the word abused, because often, as has been said, it is imposed on minors, women, people who are tortured into confessing. we have cases of athletes who were tortured and executed, as it were, just to show the political regime that when prominent and well-known personalities support the opposite political opinion in civil unrest, they get their tragic revenge. it is a disaster and the way the criminal law is abused in this country only shows the political regime there, which in my view cannot be a partner of the european union. i have been convinced for years, and there were debates in the previous term here on the floor of this parliament, that it is not possible to agree on any form of long-term cooperation with iran, because it is a country which does not respect the elementary principles of humanity at all. the names of activists, professor jalali, etc. were written down. there's a whole host of names, personalities who have either been executed or are awaiting sentencing in prison. we must of course do our utmost to ensure that those who have not yet been executed are released, but in general i am very sceptical of this regime and please keep this in mind in the various debates about how much trade cooperation is possible with iran, how much more agreements are possible with iran. my view, like the representatives of the state of israel, is that it is simply not possible with iran.
mr president, iran executed 275 people last year, and i quote from a united nations report. unpleasant to the left, it is the highest execution rate in the world: an open-air death row. among the victims are women, minors, ethnic and religious minorities, scapegoats, journalists and lawyers, guilty of doing their job, and men, whose love makes the islamic republic tremble. years go by and it looks like the land of the mullahs: human rights are violated the most fundamental international treaties, such as the convention on the rights of the child, are being flouted. freedom of expression is locked up, and the coming to power of president ebrahim raisi last july has only accelerated things. this parliament denounces - i have counted - 15 resolutions in ten years, six of them defending our sakharov prize, nasrin sotoudeh and professor ahmadreza djalali of the free university of brussels. no more speeches! europe must raise its voice: sanctions, as has been said, whose effectiveness can be called into question; the european union is committed to supporting, again and again, iranian civil society. we have little hope that our texts will make tehran bend - that is just a euphemism - but nevertheless, we will continue to press for this moratorium on executions and for the release of political prisoners.
mr president, i am, as many of you colleagues, deeply alarmed by the increasing use of the death penalty against protesters, human rights defenders and dissidents, but also ethnic and religious minorities in iran. in order not to seem only an external concern, i want to highlight the proposal in the joint motion that recognises citizen—led initiatives in iran, such as petitions calling for an end to the death penalty and its disproportionate use against minorities and women. iran is also one of the few countries in the world that executes minors, in clear violation of international law. there appears to be a state policy of intimidating, prosecuting or silencing those who call for accountability, justice and truth, whether they are victims themselves, relatives, human rights defenders, lawyers or organisations. the voices of iranian citizens are brutally silenced by the regime, and yet these initiatives show that iranian citizens want the death penalty practices to end. because of this, the regime cannot claim that the demand to end the death penalty is only coming from outside iran. its own citizens want it to end. this is why the eu and the international community need to take urgent actions to let the voice of the iranian people be heard and stop decades of impunity of those who are involved in human rights abuses.
president. - the resolution condemning the death penalty in iran is a sympathetic resolution which we support, given the situation in iran. but why has the european parliament decided to speak on this issue now? the european parliament adopted yesterday a report on the implementation of the european union's common foreign and security policy, calling for the joint comprehensive action plan on iran, better known as the 'iran deal', to be revived. the resolution also has difficulties in keeping with the earlier signals given by the european commission: josep borrell called the iranian foreign minister three days ago about the renewal of the iran deal and enrique mora represented the eu at the inauguration of iranian president raisi, nicknamed the "butcher of tehran" last year. what message does this send to sanctions, human rights and, consequently, the death penalty in iran?
uachtaráin, in 2021, will be able to host at least 275 people in ireland, including many under the age of 18. there is no pioneering in human rights, especially in the case of young people, people who are not ready to accept this, people who do not have the opportunity to try and change and people who do not have the opportunity to work as much as they want to be human rights. the second thing i would do is to encourage people to have a higher per capita income than in any other country in the world. it's a story about love in the eyes, but especially the dancing in the lgbtq community and the regional ethnicity. in the first place, i am strongly urging the authorities to immediately put an end to the moratorium on the use of phones. i would like to take my teaching and my interpretation of the mhuintir na hiaráine that is working through thionscnamh or na saoránaigh chun deireadh a chur le pionós an bháis an dream is cróga ar fad. recently, the european parliament drew attention to the fact that doctors are not allowed to be tried in court and are therefore kept in prison until they are released. ar mhí-ámharaí an tsaoil, níl feabhas tagtha ar an scéal seo. (the song is called "the song of the sea") i also urge the authorities in iran to release dr. djalali, the prisoner of duais sakarov nasrin sotoudeh, and all others who have been imprisoned for their freedom. i also call on the authorities in ireland to conduct a full and fair investigation into the use of the prisoners' jails by foreigners. i hope we can stop this nonsense and stop all this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, under no circumstances and nowhere in the world can the death penalty be considered a form of justice, ever! that is why the abolition of the death penalty throughout the world must remain one of the main objectives of european human rights policy, and this must always be the case. iran remains one of the world's top executioners, with a penal code that prescribes the death penalty for a variety of crimes, including non-violent crimes. at least 250 people were executed in 2021, possibly more, including many women and children. dozens of people have already been executed as of early 2022. that's a dramatic number. the european parliament must therefore condemn this very strongly and unambiguously. iran must immediately suspend all executions and decree a moratorium on the death penalty. we must not forget that we stand with those in iran who are fighting against the death penalty and who are often persecuted and imprisoned. the european parliament must send a signal of total closeness to those sectors of civil society, to those free voices that oppose a barbarity that we will never be able to see in any way capable of underestimating its dramatic effects.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner ferreira, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we have not yet emerged from a crisis, but we are being catapulted into another crisis, in some ways much more serious, a crisis which shows us how dependent our transitional policy was on someone whom we perhaps did not want and how much this will cost us in the months and years to come, demonstrating our unpreparedness to assume this role. cohesion policy can and must do a great deal to deal with these crises, which have come and gone and will take a long time to resolve. but we must also give the member states the means to deal properly with the partnership plans in order to meet the requirements of the commission. one of them is the overlap that exists in many countries between the next generation eu and cohesion policy, which is creating, especially at local and regional level, a clutter of work, a clutter of bureaucracy that creates great difficulties in carrying out these plans. the commission is therefore called upon to take account, firstly, of the particular situation we are experiencing at international level and the repercussions this has, not least on the energy side, and the cost it has at social, economic and energy level, and, secondly, of the red tape which local and regional administrations, in particular, are facing in these difficult times.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we are faced with a very complex situation. the late adoption of the financial framework and its programmes was in fact compounded by the pandemic situation, which further slowed down the approval procedure for the partnership agreements. we are seriously risking under-performance and under-commitment of resources at a time when we absolutely cannot afford it. the european commission cannot do anything and must not pretend to do nothing, but must immediately put in place instruments to prevent the disengagement clauses from rendering unusable the funds that our countries desperately need, now more than ever. the recovery instrument cannot function without the support of the cohesion instruments. the european commission must help the member states not only economically but also with practical and effective support, so that the funds can really help economic recovery and cohesion. the discrepancies in economic development which still exist within the european union are no longer acceptable. all the ambitions for a revival would not be credible with a cohesion policy that is already paralysed at the outset.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, war breaks out in ukraine because of the cowardly invasion of russia, and only then do we find that many russian oligarchs can count on european citizenship thanks to the golden passports sold by some member states. we knew that already, but this practice was tolerated because it brought in economic revenue. now it's become a problem, so much so that some procedures have been suspended. today the russians, tomorrow who else? do we have to wait for another emergency to understand the risks of this practice? because there are many risks, from the support of criminal and terrorist organisations to the laundering and reinvestment of dirty money. i am in favour of an inclusive european union, but towards those who really have a right to it. there are children of immigrants born in our countries who live in a legal limbo for years, victims of economic inequality: let's think about them first. let us try to be more and more a europe of rights, not of business. i therefore think it is important to take action to regulate and restrict the practice of passports and residences of gold, and to make the lists of these passports and residences of gold transparent.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the russian aggression against ukraine has brought untold suffering to the people of ukraine, and countless women, children and elderly people are seeking refuge in neighbouring countries. these, in turn, make an incredible humanitarian contribution to the masses of people in need and seeking refuge. unfortunately, there are increasing cases where people of different skin colour or ethnicity face racism in addition to their refugee plight. the reports from ngos and the people affected are disturbing. african students in ukraine report that they have been discriminated against in their flight and for example, when boarding buses or trains to take them to the border, they have been prevented from boarding because of their skin color. and people with romani backgrounds also experience discrimination and even racial violence from border officials. in view of the war, which affects all people equally, we must stand together. let us not allow the overwhelming willingness of european societies to help to be overshadowed by racism and anti-gypsyism on the part of individuals.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic days we are living through, with a violent military attack just a stone's throw from the heart of europe, show how real the fear of the different is still. those who do not align themselves must therefore be integrated and normalized at all costs. the racial hatreds that lead to the spread of violent thoughts are rooted in countries where too often information is only handled if it is compliant with the dictator in charge. at a time when structural racism has become one of the main challenges on which the future of the union depends, culture, education, sport and the media must be the architectural pillars on which to build europe's future. planting these seeds in european soil is the only way to ensure that we can one day enjoy the fruits of these seeds and enable the new generations to grow up in the certainty that only mutual respect can make society progress. but this is a long and difficult path, where one step forward can be matched by two steps back and where it is not permissible to give up unless one runs the risk of wiping out in one fell swoop a heritage of diverse but interwoven histories and cultures.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we live in a society characterized by continuous interconnections between people. nevertheless, the foreigner is still a source of fear, and incidents of racism and xenophobia are all too often on the agenda. it is not always violent actions, but often it is gestures, words and looks that are enough to make us realize that there is still much to be done to promote a culture of hospitality. in this respect, culture, education and sport can play a key role, providing the tools to read the complexity of contemporary reality and educational opportunities to experience the value of diversity. so much for erasmus+, much for creative europe. education and training are the foundations for building inclusive societies, breaking down prejudices and promoting differences; in this context, the european education area must become a reality, because of the role it can play in combating all forms of discrimination. it is essential to provide adequate training for teachers to enable them to work in multicultural contexts, and to ensure their continuing training. finally, european and global citizenship education, through curricular and extracurricular activities, is an antidote to racism and member states must give more space to the study of the history of european integration with the aim of promoting social cohesion. this approach is always valid, especially today, in the face of war. anyone fleeing russian bombs has the right to be welcomed, regardless of their status and the color of their skin.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the inge committee was set up i have wanted to work with my colleagues immediately to work together and try to understand how the european union can deal with interference and disinformation from third countries. i was proud to be a member of the first historic european parliament mission to taiwan as a member of the league, challenging the chinese communist regime. i was proud to be part of the mission to washington, where we also met with senior white house officials to strengthen transatlantic relations. from the first meeting i wanted to stress that greater cooperation with our allies overseas is needed to counter interference and hybrid threats, that nato also needs to play a coordinating role and that we europeans can and must do more, particularly at this time. the enemies of our democracies and our freedoms, of our way of life, are now invading ukraine. the enemies are those who are bombing kiev and ukrainian civilians and who, like china, are challenging the west with threats to taiwan and civil liberties in hong kong. we must never forget that. in the committee on energy, research and technology, and as my colleagues will tell you, i have always wanted to seek unity and cooperation, and there should be no political distinctions in the face of these challenges. we received a call in washington last week to depoliticize the debate and try not to make electoral propaganda about these issues. unfortunately, colleagues, not everyone has understood this. the report contains some statements which have been refuted by the facts and history, and which are intended to cast doubt on our membership of the atlantic axis, but we cannot accept these falsehoods, which have unfortunately been inserted in a report to attack our party. so let us remember, for the sake of all and to avoid any misunderstanding or further exploitation, that the russian federation, putin, has attacked ukraine, a democracy in the heart of europe, a country which is part of the great european family. we in the league stand with the west, which condemns this aggression. our secretary, matteo salvini, is at the border between poland and ukraine at the moment to show solidarity with the people there, our mayors - the mayors of the league - were the first in italy to show solidarity and to welcome the refugees, and the italian regions, led by our governor, the governor of my region, massimiliano fedriga, are at the forefront of welcoming and providing medicines. we are proud of our democracies, we are proud of our western identity and our institutions, and we say it loud and clear: we are proud to be part of nato. we strongly condemn russian, chinese and iranian interference and meddling in the democratic processes of the european union and we recognise how certain actions by moscow have sadly prepared the war we are living in these days. i would have liked some of my colleagues in this house to have put aside the electoral propaganda and not speculated about these events for the sake of a vile and mere political attack. there would certainly be unity. perhaps this parliament has once again missed a great opportunity. and let me conclude, mr president, by thanking on this important day all the women, all the women who with great dignity, often in the face of a thousand obstacles, prove that they are better than us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our democracy is a unique and precious asset which we must never take for granted and which we must always strive to defend. a year and a half ago, this parliament showed great wisdom and foresight when it decided to set up a special committee to analyse and counter all external attempts to influence and condition our democratic processes. there have been many, many attempts to interfere in recent years by foreign actors, state and non-state, whose basic objective was to weaken the european project and the values on which it is based, and to do so by using various means, from more or less direct forms of funding to parties considered friendly to campaigns of disinformation or even cyberattacks. our work has revealed important and disturbing elements about the strategies of attack on our democracy, coming mainly from putin's russia, and about the flaws in our rules on political funding. we 've identified the accomplices to the interference . in our report we make it clear that there have been continuous attempts to infiltrate our democracy, going from close and ambiguous relationships between those directly linked to putin and the sovereign right in europe. i am thinking of the fpö in austria, the rassemblement national in france, the lega, the one that refers to salvini in italy. it was evident that these interferences also passed through the proliferation of hate messages that mainly targeted migrants, women and the lgbt community. in this context, the empowerment of social platforms and their commitment to countering organised disinformation campaigns is still insufficient; support, digital media literacy and free information as strong responses to raise people's awareness and safeguard democratic principles. from this day forward, we say: the european union must respond in an organised way to defend its democracy. the tragic situation we are living in, the tragedy of putin's mad war against the ukrainian people in the heart of europe, makes the work of this committee dramatically timely and signals the urgency of powerful, concerted, permanent responses against unscrupulous actors, who are obviously acting in the world - and unfortunately not only in russia. it is a job that does not stop there: the european parliament, the home of the european citizens, must be a strong and reliable bulwark for our democracy. we need transparency in the sources and management of party funding, actions to defend electoral moments, social platforms directly held accountable. europe must carry out this principle: democracy must be protected from interference.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to think of the women in ukraine who are suffering as a result of the war, women who are refugees, forced to flee under bombardment with their children, forced to suffer abuse, rape and maltreatment, as also denounced by unicef. mothers who are taking courage, hoping for a better future. strong women fighting for peace. i think of maria, among the many ukrainian women who have seen their city destroyed and civilians, children and the elderly, killed, of kira rudik, a ukrainian mp who takes up arms to defend her country, or of mia, the first child born under russian bombs in kiev in a metro station thanks to her mother's courage. oriana fallaci, the first italian woman to go to the front as a special envoy, wrote: "almost nothing like war, and nothing like an unjust war, shatters the dignity of man". ladies and gentlemen, let us never forget these women, nor those who are still suffering under the taliban in afghanistan. the situation in europe is also worrying, the latest eurobarometer survey on women gives a tough picture to accept: three out of four women in the eu and eight out of ten in italy have experienced an increase in violence in the last two years, greater difficulty in reconciling family and work, too often having to give up one to devote themselves to the other. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. and here i am reminded of the tragedy of the surrogacy system, which still claims too many victims in the world. it is more important than ever to thank women and to give them hope in action and not just in words. as john paul ii said: "thank you, woman, for the very fact that you are a woman! with the perception that is proper to your femininity, you enrich the understanding of the world and contribute to the full truth of human relations".
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the press, the media and television are full of images that none of us would have wanted to see, such as that of an entire family lying naked and covered in rags on a sidewalk outside kiev, stations under assault, children and mothers fleeing, families separated. a sad and unacceptable return to the past. we have a duty to help, and all of europe is doing its part. the activation of the temporary protection mechanism, although not legally enforceable in its entirety, is allowing us to welcome and help genuine refugees: women and children fleeing war, while fathers, sons and husbands remain courageously to defend their country. it is to them, as we have been saying for years, that we must open the doors, giving clear, determined and effective rules, including to those who, for many other reasons than the war, want to come to europe, but closing them firmly to smugglers and criminals. today more than ever, we must show firmness to human traffickers so that we can allocate resources to those who are really in need and to those states on the front line, such as italy for decades and poland and hungary today. poland and hungary, engaged in a great mission of solidarity, instrumentally insulted in this house, must have unblocked their respective recovery and resilience plans. we expect support from europe, not ideological blackmail, to be able to take in refugees. i believe that the events of these days have once again shown how little has been done in brussels and how the reform of the asylum and immigration package itself, which you have presented with such pomp, is neither timely nor effective, so much so that we have to resort to an instrument, temporary protection, which paradoxically cancels out the reform itself. well, make some brave decisions at last. i would like to conclude by applauding all those who are spending money to help those in need, those who are spending money for peace, those who are spending money against war with diplomacy and not with arms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the flight of millions of women, children and elderly people from ukraine is a tragedy which deserves the greatest possible commitment from europe. we must concentrate on welcoming and supporting ukrainian refugees. according to unicef, a million children have already fled in recent weeks. i think of the moving images of solidarity and welcome in poland and hungary; these are nations that the left here has been insulting for months and that have been called fascist and racist because their governments oppose illegal immigration. they now host more than a million people fleeing the war. they give us an exact measure of the differences between the real refugees and the many illegal immigrants that europe, and italy in particular, has welcomed and is still welcoming. we have before our eyes scenes of women and children saluting their fathers who remain to defend the homeland and freedom, images very different from the selfies on the boats of the many economic migrants who do not flee from any war and that the left wants in europe to fuel the business of reception. this underground hunt gives you an exact figure of how true what i'm saying is. the time for propaganda and goodwill is over, it is time for action, it is time to really help those who are fleeing war. this is the only true welcome and we are on this and we will always be on the front line.
mr president, we speak to them, to the refugees, in numbers. but behind the numbers, there are thousands of families split apart. difficult goodbyes between fathers and their children. bitter tears. shattered dreams and peaceful lives left behind. i am pleased to see that this time around, europe is responding in accordance with the values of humanity and compassion. that people escaping war have been widely welcomed by governments, local communities and a wave of citizens’ engagement to help. i am also happy to see that this time the council reacted with a swift and unified response, triggering the first time the temporary protection directive. but even in these difficult times, we should have lessons learned. we cannot have europe à la carte any more. we need a european union that has a common asylum and migration policy. these are truly testing times for us. to the people that left their wives behind, to our empathy and to our readiness to react effectively as a union in the future, regardless of where people in need of protection come from.
mr president, putin's war has already caused two million people to be displaced and this time we cannot fail the refugees as we failed in 2015 the refugees coming from syria. the temporary protection directive has been activated. that's good news, but it doesn't mean it's all solved. firstly, because resettlement is still voluntary and we will need member states to give places and accept that there are refugees resettled. and secondly, because in the application, in my view, there is discrimination, which is unacceptable from my point of view, because in some cases member states may apply a lower level of protection to those refugees who do not have ukrainian nationality, which, frankly, when we are talking about people fleeing war, is not at all tolerable. so i think that what we have to ask the member states is, firstly, to provide 'mobiliser' places and, secondly, to not in any way apply different protections to people fleeing war on the basis of their nationality. and finally, as maria arena said, let us not forget that there are thousands and thousands of refugees all over the world to whom, unlike the ukrainians, we are not giving the possibility of such protection. i believe that the decision we take with the ukrainians should also be applied to people fleeing war in other parts of the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the gates of europe millions of women and children fleeing war are asking us for shelter while they wait to embrace their men who are still at the front, a drama that shows us who a refugee really is, a concept too often exploited to promote the business of illegal immigration. we have a duty to help these people, but we have a system of reception that is collapsing because of the exorbitant illegal immigration, which in 2021 alone brought 200,000 illegal immigrants to europe, half of them arriving in italy. it is urgent that we stop these indiscriminate flows, protect our borders and return those who have arrived illegally, so that our reception system can focus on genuine humanitarian crises such as the one that is unfolding. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the fight against organised crime, including the use of child pornography. we must above all make every effort to ensure that this war ends as soon as possible, otherwise we will only have turned the ukrainian people into a new mass of desperate people, adding to the millions of poor people, immigrants and others, who are already crammed into the peripheries of europe.
mr. chairman, commissioners, colleagues, more than two million civilians have been expelled from ukraine because of the russian invasion. imagine the picture: two million people, that is, one paris - at this moment, paris is empty. these are pictures of these people looking for their new home. the european union estimates that more than four million people may be seeking refuge from russian destruction in ukraine. some say more. i thank all our friends in poland, hungary, moldova, slovakia and romania who bear the brunt of the refugee take-up. i also thank my croats for that. the european union must urgently activate all its mechanisms to provide these countries with material and logistical assistance in this emergency. we need to think now about how to respond and ensure that refugees from ukraine are integrated into the labour market, that continuation of all levels of education is necessary for the most vulnerable, children and young people. to date, we have received more than 2,600 ukrainian refugees in croatia and are ready to organize not only accommodation but also assistance and education in their language. during the homeland war in the republic of croatia and the war in bosnia and herzegovina, my country received about a million exiles and refugees from war-torn areas. we know what it means to suffer, to fear and to be uncertain. we are aware of the senseless manifestations of hatred and hostility towards a sovereign state and a modern people to which we ourselves were exposed more than thirty years ago. colleagues, colleagues, compassion and empathy -- yes, but each of the two billion people has a first and last name, and their eyes are on us and our actions. it is therefore time for the european union to show its solidarity and to respond to this challenge in the spirit of european values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we were not prepared for a new conflict on our doorstep, we were not prepared for the consequences of a brutal aggression, indiscriminate attacks on civilians, including children, many children. we were not even prepared to take in millions of refugees. but this time, at least, the union is showing unity and solidarity. countries traditionally opposed to welcoming people have now opened their doors. what i would like is that there be no discrimination and that those doors remain open to anyone seeking protection. this is a turning point, starting from this unity that we have been able to create to finally reform our asylum system, to create a system that can withstand even the current and future crises. today, those countries which until yesterday were unwilling to accept them are asking for solidarity and it is right that they should receive it, because the responsibilities must be shared. i would like to take up the words of commissioner johansson, who said: we are all, and i mean all, white, black, yellow, christian and muslim, we are all human beings, no matter where in the world they come from.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is unsustainable, the recession is imminent and it is time to move from words to solutions. but we also need to take responsibility: it's the failure of an idea of a globalized europe that was forced to import everything from masks to respirators during the first phase of the pandemic, and now we've woken up to the realization that we've gotten everything wrong about energy policy. this is also the failure of an industrial policy which has been defeated by neoliberalism and is powerless in the face of international competition. the market logic is gone, as yesterday the ttf saw the price of gas equal to 16 times what it was a year ago. the dependence on russian gas cannot be overcome in a day, but it reflects the systematic opposition of those in this house to the alternative, for example by boycotting the creation of the southern gas corridor. it's about getting back to the mediterranean. lng, liquid natural gas, is a solution, but it is expensive, it has quantity limits, there are limits in terms of infrastructure, while renewables we know the benefits but also the many, many limitations. finally, we need to think about the green deal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases from the transport sector. the green deal has a roadmap that's on the edge of the unrealizable. the reactivation of coal-fired power plants is turning heads those who thought renewables were the answer. if the attitude does not change, if this parliament and the commission do not make an honest self-criticism, then the green deal becomes a problem, not a solution.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i am pleased that we in the committee on economic and monetary affairs have been able to agree on a common text, even though unfortunately it was not allowed to be presented here, which i find somewhat surprising. in the past, that has not always been possible. i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal. the question that we as epp members are always asking ourselves is: what exactly is the european semester? it is the central instrument for the coordination of economic policy. the european semester is about setting the right course for a stable budgetary policy and a competitive economy. it is about fiscal policy and economic policy. this focus has become even more important in the face of the new geopolitical situation, as the executive vice-president has pointed out. we are now talking quite openly about open strategic autonomy. it is also essential that we have an efficient and competitive industrial base which, in case of doubt, will also guarantee our independence. i can only ask the commission to examine a whole series of proposed and existing legislation to see whether it is still up to this responsibility. but this also means independence from financial markets. we must be careful not to surrender to the financial markets, and in the end it is the financial markets that decide whether to continue lending to states, not us here in the european parliament. i would therefore like to make it quite clear that we reject all the proposals put forward by the left group. there are not that many of that group either. i must say that i have rarely read so much nonsense in one place as in these amendments. we are weakening europe, we are giving ourselves over to the capital markets. we are not in a position to meet the challenges. the epp will support everything we have agreed, but reject all proposals from the left.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, mr executive vice-president, mr commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, thank you for being here. i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and particularly our chairman, irene tinagli, for the good joint exercise which has enabled us to have a report with great cross-cutting support and i think that the important thing, especially at the moment we are at now, is that we can send a message that this house is able to agree on an approach to the semester, but it is clear that the war is changing everything and also our urgencies, and i want to point out some of them. firstly, i believe that in the short term we have no choice, mr executive vice-president, but to extend the escape clause for another year. you said that you would assess it on the basis of the spring forecasts; at the very least, i would like to express my full support for that decision. and secondly, there is the energy question, which we cannot escape: firstly, because i believe that the european commission must help to guarantee supply, particularly in the light of the news we heard yesterday, but also because we have to intervene in the gas market and, above all, in the setting of prices. and in many countries - we have the meeting of ministers today - like greece or spain, with very different political colours, they are saying that the electricity bill cannot continue at these levels. the decision is therefore necessary to either decouple the marginalist system of gas allocation or to introduce some kind of price-fixing measure, as the greek prime minister has called for; i believe these are urgent matters which we cannot avoid in the short term. in the long term, it is clear that the crisis is forcing us to accelerate the energy and ecological transition, and from that point of view, i think that the debate we will have on fiscal rules and on the ability to give more scope for investment for the ecological transition is a fundamental pillar, and the other fundamental pillar is that i think that war and the emergencies in the transition will probably force us to launch a new european fund to support this transition. i believe that these are some of the ways of working in the short, medium and long term that we cannot avoid.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the return of inflation and the soaring prices of energy and raw materials, more and more of our fellow citizens are struggling to keep warm, to get health care, to feed themselves and, finally, to live in dignity. meanwhile, here, under the pretext of ecology, we only talk about green taxes and punitive ecology. how can we face the challenge of the end of the world without worrying about the men and women who can't make it to the end of the month? in france, 10 million people live below the poverty line. the european union bears responsibility for this, with a policy that is increasingly favourable to multinationals, speculators and the financialisation of our globalised societies, which have destroyed our factories, agriculture, fisheries and businesses. there must not, there cannot be sustainable growth and social progress without them, because it is not people who should be at the service of the economy, it is the economy that should be at the service of people.
president, commissioner, vice-president, under normal circumstances i would repeat here my plea for growth-oriented reforms and sound, sober public finances, the best guarantees for the prosperity and well-being of our citizens. in addition, such a combination also allows us to absorb external shocks and thus increase our resilience and resilience. but unfortunately, these are not normal circumstances. the corona crisis is not really over yet and we are dealing with a terrible war here on the european continent. the ukrainian crisis presents europe with not one but several mirrors. europe has for too long made a sterile distinction between economic interests on the one hand and geopolitical strategic considerations on the other. the war in ukraine also shows the enormous risk associated with energy dependence, and even more so dependence on a fickle dictatorial regime. that is why i am calling for reforms, and especially for a reform of our geopolitical thinking. in the short term, this should ensure that we can heat ourselves at acceptable prices for the coming winters, and above all, in the long term, we should create a situation in which we are no longer constantly looking for facts, which unfortunately has been the case for far too long. let's have an open debate. let us see how we can better connect our energy markets. i think that's the big secret. but above all, let us bury the old green dogmas, such as the hopeless crusade against nuclear energy, once and for all.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. nothing will be the same as it was 14 days ago. that's the only way to talk about the economy. hungary has condemned the russian aggression and wants peace as soon as possible. our hearts and minds must be in the right place when we act. with unprecedented cooperation, we are providing all the help we can to the refugees, as schinas must have seen at the end of the week. but when it comes to our economic actions, we have to be very rational. i would like to emphasize four things: first, the union must strengthen itself militarily, because that is the only way it can become a factor. secondly, those who want to ban russian gas and oil imports do not want to make industrial production in europe impossible. we don't shoot ourselves in the foot, we don't make our citizens pay the price of war. brussels must be brave whether it is touching on the green deal or the conditionality of the recovery funds. third, the left must not feel that now is the time to finally make a debt union of the european union. finally, the union's strength lies in its cohesion, and it is therefore very important to put an end to the unequal situation in which some member states have access to development resources and others do not. hungary and poland are on the defensive. i ask the commission to give its resources, not to play political and ideological games in a time of war.
rapporteur. – madam president, when the commission opened the 2022 semester cycle last autumn, war in europe was not even in our worst nightmares. on the contrary, there were many hopes that the union could leave behind the difficult months of the covid pandemic and start to face more decisively the digital, environmental and social challenges. when we started to draft this report, we thought – and we still believe – that the semester is the right tool with which to coordinate all these efforts in order to maximise their effects at union level. when the semester cycle started, the economic situation we faced was quite positive and expectations were good, although we still started to notice that were some elements that could have jeopardised the strength of the recovery in 2022. first of all, we had problems of labour shortages that have involved many service sectors in the reopening phase, that in the coming months could have affected other sectors, like logistics, transport and activities related to information technologies. second, we were still dealing with covid. we were still dealing with the new variants, we were afraid of new waves, and there were low rates of vaccination in some parts of the world and of europe as well. last but not least, we started to observe a sharp rise in energy prices and, for this reason, also of the inflation rate. the succession of these elements could of course have led to some slowdown, but with an adequate policy mix and a full coordination of monetary and fiscal policy action, both at the european and national level, we were optimistic and positive that we could preserve the good prospects for 2022. and then the war. the war has drastically changed this scenario. the tough but necessary sanctions against putin’s regime are the right response to his barbaric attack on ukraine, but we know they will have an important impact on our economies. we are, of course, willing to shoulder these costs. we will. we have to. but we have to be ready. we have to prepare. if the situation in ukraine does not improve, we could have considerable consequences on the availability of some goods and above all, of course, energy products. this will result in an increase not only of energy prices, but also of the prices of other important commodities that will affect various sectors like agriculture, food industries and others. in this regard, i see three possible risks that we have to be aware of and prepare to address. the first relates to the ability of the downstream market to absorb price increases. the risk that i see is that this could lead to a slowdown in aggregated demand, delaying the time of recovery or slowing it down compared to what we expected before. the second factor is the possible effect on wage dynamics, which could occur, of course, if the shock were to extend over a longer period of time. this will also have an impact on inflation. the third factor is that a prolonged energy crisis and, in particular, a possible asymmetric effect in energy costs for the union would also lead to a loss of competitiveness for european industry and also to divergences in the single market. on top of that, a prolonged phase of tension on energy prices would have consequences not only on inflation, as we have seen in the past months, but also on industry costs by influencing the investment decisions of manufacturing companies. therefore the risk is that we could see a phase of investment postponements or rescheduling. this is possible despite the high level of current demand. so against this complex and worrisome background, i really think that all policy tools should be used to manage this delicate phase and to do it in the most appropriate, incisive way. first, eu institutions will have to empower eu governments to rise to these epochal challenges. this is why i welcome the european commission’s willingness to adapt its fiscal guidance for 2023 to the new realities. this is not the time to go back to fiscal rules that were meant for completely different moments. they are not adequate to face the challenge that we have ahead and we need to support member states in keeping people safe and confident for the future. but second we also need to put in place an eu response, eu tools, as we did for covid. we usually say that we have to learn from past mistakes, but sometimes we also have to learn from what worked, from past success. if we look back at how we managed the covid crisis, if we look back at what worked, the key factors that explain the eu success in managing the consequences of the covid crisis were putting in place the right policy mix, balancing monetary policy, fiscal policies and effective coordination in the policy actions of member states, and the introduction of new european tools that were adequate to the challenge that we faced, tools that made us stronger, more united, and that allowed us to go back to a pre-crisis level of growth much faster than anybody would have thought. so let us approach this new phase with the same spirit, and i’m sure we can make it.
madam president, commissioners, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, how long will we have to wait before even the most ardent supporters of austerity and austerity are convinced that we are at the last beach to change the whole of the union's failing economic governance? how long will we have to wait before all the automatic mechanisms, starting with the stability pact, end their ill effects on european economies? over the past two decades, the average gdp growth of the euro area countries has been considerably lower than the average of all other oecd countries. what is to happen beyond the pandemic and the vicious war on our eastern borders, which is literally upsetting our concept of democracy and our energy and raw material supply plans on a planetary level? the political and material effects of energy dependence on third countries are not enough to add to the green and digital policies a further dependence on technologies and raw materials imported from areas which are now dominating our development? i therefore call on this parliament to undertake a rapid, serious and immediate review of the rigidly outlined objectives of the next generation eu agenda to allow the respective national plans to be re-formulated in terms of timeliness and sustainability, otherwise the union will continue to be more and more a giant with feet of clay. finally, the rules of the current stability pact force over-indebted member countries to use funds with next generation eu conditionalities which, as specified in the commission's latest autumn economic forecast, will produce low growth multipliers, while other countries will instead turn to autonomous debt towards investments with high multipliers, generating the paradoxical effect of increasing asymmetries among the european economies themselves. let us meditate on these considerations.
madam president, commissioners, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, the european semester should focus on the social priorities: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the introduction of a european social security system, the european social security system, the social security system, the social security system, the social security system, the social security, the social security, the social security, the social security, the environment, the social and the environment. i voted against the report in the committee on employment because i do not think it takes the aspects i have just mentioned into account. it completely ignores the fact that the pandemic is currently devastating us economically and socially, and in a very particular, very difficult context, where this conflict that has just begun can seriously endanger our economies and, above all, our democracies. we in the five star movement think it absurd that in a context of such economic and social complexity, some politicians and bureaucrats in brussels should persist in defending the principles of austerity which have done so much harm to millions of citizens and businesses. we therefore strongly emphasize the need to review the stability and growth pact, to change the tax rules and to adopt a policy which is truly open to green and social investment, free from anachronistic budgetary constraints. only by changing our governance system radically can we create a europe that is truly a global player, authoritative and resilient, able to face any internal and external threat.
madam president, madam prime minister, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the choice to arm ukraine and to increase sanctions against russia beyond measure is bearing its bitter fruits: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the european citizens and businesses are paying the price for the shortsighted and reckless policies adopted by the commission, and it is a very high price. commodity prices are exploding, the impact on the cost of consumer goods is already starting to show. a period of hyperinflation and famine is coming when thousands of businesses will fail, poverty will increase dramatically and social tensions will worsen. this will not happen in russia, ladies and gentlemen, but in europe. and the responsibility for this disaster cannot be placed solely on putin, because it is also the result of inadequate decisions by the european government. do you think more guns, more deaths, more sanctions will solve the problem? but it's too convenient to be heroes with other people's lives. and in the face of this, do you propose to concentrate the defence and security of all of us in the european union by investing taxpayers' money to finance an army under the leadership of the commission? so that's the goal? no, thank you.
in writing. geopolitical tensions on our eastern flank are rising dramatically due to the brutal russian aggression against ukraine. europe condemns not only in words but also in deeds the war provoked by the russian federation. significant progress is needed in upgrading our common security and defence policy and the 'kiev moment' is fuelling political momentum, notably thanks to a renewed willingness in washington to cultivate transatlantic relations and strengthen eu-nato cooperation, the development of a new eu strategic compass with a striking focus on its actual implementation, and the revision of the nato strategic concept, which could not have come at a better time. the european summit in versailles gave a clear start to reducing the eu's dependence on several key policy areas, including the broad field of foreign, security and defence policy.
in writing. – the european union is and must remain a union of peace. all eu member states together already have the second highest military expenditure in the world. i am therefore extremely critical of the additional militarisation of the eu, including increases in defence spending – which are also largely bypassing the european parliament and its scrutiny function. as a member of a neutral state, i would also like to stress the role that neural countries can play in regards to mediation, dialogue, civil crisis aid, humanitarian engagement and reconstruction efforts after a war. we need an additional investment programme for climate and social infrastructure, not new military armament!
in writing. thank you, prime minister kallas, for your excellent speech. it has been encouraging to see the unity of not only the eu but also the entire western alliance in responding to russian aggression and supporting ukraine. estonia, together with the other baltic states, has set a strong example for the eu as a whole. ukraine needs all our support in the fight. we must stop the russian savage attacks. it was a very important opening that the eu also directly finances the acquisition of arms by ukraine. next, eu member states must stop buying oil and gas from russia. it would really hit the russian economy once and for all. it is intolerable that while we are sanctioning the russian economy to a great extent, we are simultaneously financing the war with hundreds of millions of dollars in energy purchases every day. the eu's dependence on russian energy has made us weak. as a result, eu countries were not able to sanction russia strongly enough immediately after the illegal occupation of crimea. it was only now that the great war of aggression had begun that real action was taken. the eu's energy dependence must be brought to an end. this week, the european commission presented a repowereu action to break the energy dependence on russia. however, the timetable is disappointing, as the commission aims to end the dependency only by 2030. we need to move much faster. eu member states must phase out the use of russian fossil fuels and increase investment in clean technologies and energy storage. of course, stopping energy purchases will hit member countries, but so will war. all the other banks in russia must be disconnected from the swift system. the same action must be taken against belarus, which has supported the russian aggression.
in writing. russia's aggression against ukraine is a reckless act that we have a duty to counter. however, in the last few days i have heard some colleagues talk too lightly about war and military intervention by europe, without considering the consequences and the risks that could result: i think that the sanctions were an important step, but now it must be diplomacy that leads us to the resolution of the conflict. nevertheless, it must also be recognised that the eu's diplomatic effort and mediation capacity is made much more difficult by its energy dependence on russia. the inability to be self-sufficient and diversify our suppliers has left us vulnerable to the russian regime's demands and risks reversing the economic burden of the war on our citizens. this same energy dependency is also showing the most critical aspects of the green transition. in a matter of weeks, we went from "disagreements" on green taxonomy to unanimous approval of using nuclear and coal-fired power plants, emphasizing the sharp distinction between ideological and pragmatic goals. i would like to conclude by welcoming the intention of several countries to renew their commitment to nato spending. i believe this crisis reminds us of the importance of the trust and alliance we have with our partners overseas.
in writing. in the face of russian aggression and invasion of ukraine, the european union has come together in a coordinated and robust response driven by the free and democratic expression of its public views. this response must, however, also expose its weaknesses, in particular its external dependence on security and defence, its energy dependence and its relative lack of protection against disinformation and cyber attacks. the good coordination in the context of nato, with a focus on the transatlantic axis of global security and coordination of member states' efforts, enabled the vice-president of the european commission and high representative for foreign policy to state that the russian invasion of ukraine marked 'the birth of a geopolitical european union'. this proclamation has meaning. diplomacy, although it remains decisive, is no longer enough for the european union to guarantee its relevance and, above all, its security and defence. while maintaining the multilateral perspective which is at its core and its values and principles, the security and defence alliance must be strengthened and equipped with the means to ensure the protection of the union and to project its vision of peace and freedom in the global context.
the agenda includes the report by ms simona bonafè, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on batteries and battery waste, repealing directive 2006/66/ec and amending regulation (eu) 2019/1020 (com (2020) 0798 c9‐0400/2020 (2020/0353 cod)) (a9‐0031/2022).
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we need only look around this house to see that the use of batteries is already an integral part of everyone's daily life and will become even more so in the coming years if it is true, as it is true, that europe has set itself the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. mobility will become more sustainable, our cities will become smarter, and to focus more on renewable energy sources, we will need more and more batteries. in a nutshell, batteries will be the foundation on which to build our new paradigm of sustainable development. that is why the regulation we are discussing is so important. this is essential to create a real value chain in europe around this product, starting with the rules and standards in design and manufacture and ending with new targets in battery recovery and recycling. for the first time, european legislation takes into account the entire life cycle of a product. we're talking about the moment the product is conceived, then its design, to the end of life, as i said earlier. this new holistic approach - i would like to stress this - will henceforth be the rule for future legislation on sustainable products and the circular economy. and it's not by chance, it's not by chance that this holistic approach has been proposed for a product like batteries, which in the next few years will see its use increase significantly but also its application in new sectors. to give you some numbers: in fact, it is estimated that the use of batteries, for electric vehicles alone, will increase by 15 times from 2030 to 2035, not to mention that already today, already at this moment, more and more light transport means such as scooters, e-bikes and e-scooters are spreading. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of the strategic materials which underpin the technology, in particular lithium ions and therefore cobalt, lithium, nickel and manganese, which europe is unfortunately poor in and which are now completely dependent on imports, will increase at the same time. in order to keep pace with our global competitors, guaranteeing strategic autonomy in supply and exploiting the potential of new technologies, industrialisation policies using the principles of circularity will have to be put in place. the new regulation must therefore have a twofold objective: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. we must avoid the mistake made in the past with solar panels, for which the incentive to market is not matched by the creation of a new european industrial sector. the main sustainability requirements, introduced for the first time for batteries, are the maximum carbon footprint, minimum recycled content, performance standards, durability and removability. they are intended to become a benchmark for the entire global market and will apply to all types of batteries sold on the european market, including those imported from non-eu countries. to make batteries truly sustainable, it is not enough to respect the environment and avoid predatory actions on natural resources, but this must be combined with respect for social rights, one of which is the prohibition of the exploitation of child labour in the mines for the extraction of raw materials. we have set ourselves this objective by this regulation and have made due diligence mandatory for a specific product for the first time. therefore, all batteries placed on the market will be covered by these new rules. the increased use of batteries will also result in a higher amount of waste. for example, the number of lithium batteries ready for recycling is expected to increase 700-fold between 2020 and 2040. it is clear that ambitious quality and quantity collection for all categories of batteries is the essential prerequisite for implementing a circular model and creating an efficient market for raw and secondary materials. the introduction of mandatory requirements for extended producer responsibility and the increase in collection targets go exactly in this direction. in conclusion, i think we are all aware of the complexity of this legislation, which will also have to adapt to the evolution of new technologies, which are not yet fully mature. but we are faced with a challenge that requires an immediate response. we in parliament have taken it on board, and i hope the council will do the same, so that we can have ambitious legislation in the short term which will give the european union all the tools it needs to become a global leader in the battery market.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe has often in the past made the mistake of not linking its environmental policies with a coherent industrial policy, as in the case of photovoltaic panels, a classic, and has thus created its dangerous dependence on other areas of the world, both for high-technology products and for low-technology products. we are now faced with the challenge of high-capacity batteries, which are essential for electric mobility, but also for the whole transition to renewable energy, as the rapporteur has well illustrated. many thought that it was too late, that the challenge was already lost for europe, but we believe that it is not, europe believes that it is not and that is why it is working to become a continent competitive in this production, both technologically and industrially, and to achieve its sovereignty as is often the case in our ambitions. that's why we've created the battery alliance, bringing together the world of research, business and public authorities, and in some ways we've also made progress, this very regulation makes progress: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the regulation on the one hand, the alliance for research and technological innovation, the pcis for joint projects of european interest, the gigafactories to create production capacity: only in this way, with all these instruments, can we have the best performing batteries in europe and the maximum recycling of their components. this is where our contribution as the itre committee and our ambition for the project has been. the challenge is won in europe if environmental policies are linked to industrial strategies, technological efforts and the full application of circular economy principles.
imco. - mr president, commissioner, the present sad state of affairs in the world shows more than ever that europe must build up its own battery cell production for the energy transition in order to be independent of third countries. we need 19 times as many batteries to meet the climate targets. i am very pleased with the compliments i have received that the dossier approved in the imco committee has been almost accepted. i'd like to pass on those compliments to simona bonafè. a new european strategic industrial policy was in the imco dossier and is in the dossier on which we are going to vote tonight and tomorrow. the same goes for protecting our environment, with a cycle from raw materials to batteries, from design to production and use to recycling. we wanted to ban the export of used batteries so that the raw materials could be kept within europe and reused for the production of new batteries. we also wanted a deposit system for consumer batteries, again to be able to reuse the raw materials and use the cash flow to promote the development of new battery cells made from european raw materials. i'm sorry that was taken out, but maybe it'll come out later. the ultimate aim is that europe should not and cannot be dependent on third countries for such an important sector as energy.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me start by sincerely thanking the european parliament for all the work that went into preparing the report that we are discussing this afternoon and on which you will vote later this evening. i will not be able to name all of you, but representing the lead committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), as well as the associated committees, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco), the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and the committee on transport and tourism (tran), i would address my thanks in particular to the rapporteur, simona bonafè, as well as to antonius manders, patrizia toia and ismail ertug. thanks to your relentless work on this important file over the last years and months and to your commitment to proceeding as fast as possible to build up a large support for your mandate, we are here today close to starting trilogues once the council has adopted its position next week at the environment council. in the light of russia’s unprecedented attack on ukraine and the imperative of making europe independent from fossil fuels, a new regulatory framework for the eu battery value chain is more needed and urgent than ever before. the fact that no less than four of your committees were involved in examining our proposal is testimony to its strategic importance for the eu. the proposal for a new batteries regulation was our first legislative proposal implementing the european green deal and, in some respects, it constitutes a blueprint for other legislation to come on sustainable product policy. when we adopted it in december 2020, we did not anticipate the level of support it generated among the co-legislators and the enthusiasm that it developed. when preparing the proposal we tried to strike a careful balance between the level of ambition, the burden on economic operators and the feasibility of implementing the requirements and provisions proposed. looking at the amendments you proposed today, i can see that you clearly considered our proposals a good starting point. but i also know that you would like to go further and faster with many of the sustainability requirements and end—of—life aspects. in the coming weeks and months, we will engage as an honest broker in the political negotiations over the final text. changes will need to be assessed with care. the regulation should be ambitious and, at the same time, its implementation should be realistic. we need to keep the balance. but what matters most is that, in the end, we will have a forward-looking predictable regulatory framework which ensures the sustainability and the competitiveness of the emerging battery value chain in the eu. you can count entirely on our active and constructive support to ensure a successful and satisfactory outcome of those negotiations. many business decisions and investments are already being made in the light of the changes this new regulatory framework will bring when progressively rolled out over time. we need to deliver on these expectations with ambition and credibility. thank you very much for your attention, and i am looking forward to today’s debate.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i cannot stress enough how important this report is to achieving our climate goals. a few weeks ago, we might have been talking about the environmental, ecological and social benefits of the battery regulation, which will put europe on the path to a sustainable and zero-emission future. but with the war in ukraine, nothing is the same as it was before. the report, ladies and gentlemen, is also about the strategic securing of raw materials for a rapidly growing battery industry and the acceleration of our clean energy transition. it has been mentioned that the recycling of valuable and environmentally critical materials from batteries will be a key to a sustainable and competitive battery industry that should be at the forefront of the world. the introduction of minimum targets for recycling efficiency and for the collection of waste batteries will make a significant contribution to this objective. from the transport point of view, i would particularly like to emphasize the extension to light transport and the abolition of the 2 kw threshold. we are therefore making the legislation future-proof by including e-bikes and so-called e-scooters in the regulation. the sector employs some 1000 small and mediumsized enterprises in europe, employing more than 155 000 skilled workers directly or indirectly. the bicycle industry alone generates a turnover of more than 18 billion euros. that is, with the battery regulation we will ensure that the markets for electric vehicles and e-bikes, with all the environmental and health benefits of these vehicles, continue to flourish and that these vehicles are brought to the european market.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think we all know, it's never been more clear and it's never been more urgent than in these days and hours: we need to do everything we can to move away from fossil fuels, and batteries are absolutely key technology for that. climate change, species extinction, pollution - all these crises we must confront with all our might. and that's what we need laws to do. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for an excellent piece of legislation. for the first time, we're thinking about product policy in a truly sustainable and holistic way, from the extraction of raw materials to low-carbon production with long life spans to real recycling. this battery regulation can be a real blueprint for future legislation on sustainable products. but of course, in some places we had to make the proposal more precise. first, we need a strong right to repair. all batteries in mobile phones, laptops and similar devices must be able to be replaced by consumers themselves. here, in the past, companies have really ignored the interests of people and the environment for long enough. second, real recycling for all batteries. the important raw materials like lithium, cobalt, nickel, not only have to be recycled, but then of course reused. this is the only way to make the step towards a truly circular economy. and thirdly, exploitation in a cobalt mine, for example, does not suddenly become irrelevant just because the raw material is then used in a small battery. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. all in all, together we have been able to put together a truly revolutionary package that civil society around the world is looking forward to, especially indigenous communities. ladies and gentlemen, let us lay the foundations today for clean batteries made in europe, for future-proof jobs in europe, clean technology for the much-needed energy transition, effective consumer protection and global justice.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. this uncritical attitude towards electricity confirms an approach which is not only manichean but also lacking in a strategic vision which leads us straight to another energy dependence, that of china, a country which monopolizes, with the brutality typical of totalitarian regimes, the deposits of raw materials necessary for the construction of the batteries on which renewable sources depend. have you really not had enough of the lesson of these days? in the course of a race to reduce co2 emissions, which would affect only the 8% of our global emissions, we have given up extracting gas from our fields, we have given up gas pipelines and gasifiers, we have closed nuclear power stations, we have abandoned coal-fired power stations, which we would like to reopen in a hurry, but, above all, we have become slaves to the purchase of energy from russia, qatar and other regimes that do not care about liberalism, which prevents us, among other things, from effectively sanctioning putin's insane war in ukraine, a conflict that could even become apolitical. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. we worry about a one or two degree temperature increase over the long term, but our children ask us to get to the long term first.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this european union action programme for the environment up to 2030, as well as the green deal and other climate proposals, in this context of crisis and war, now seem totally out of touch with reality. the enormous increases in energy prices are taking a dramatic toll on household and business bills, with increases of up to 500%, forcing many firms to even temporarily suspend production. in my country, italy, electricity bills have increased by 131% in one year, gas by 94%. the cost of gas has jumped to a maximum of 295 euros per megawatt hour, a year ago the same gas cost about 18 euros, so the price has increased tenfold. what is the european commission's response to such a momentous crisis? it is still empty of environmentalism, denial of reality and unrealistic attempts to oppose the use, at least temporarily, of existing coal, gas and nuclear. in this programme you propose the elimination by 2025 of all direct and indirect subsidies to fossil fuels at national level and thus also at the level of the whole european union. irresponsible choice, especially now. i also do not share your call for the best possible use of environmental taxation. the european union gets about 40 percent of its gas and 30 percent of its oil from russia, and our dependence on foreign energy instead of getting better has gotten worse in recent years because of the energy transition you've brought about, which has led to the closure of coal-fired power plants; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the energy tax. the commission's answers are still rather vague, and there is still talk of accelerating renewables, which will not help our continent in the short term. instead of thinking about alternative series to dependence on russia you gave birth to yet another brilliant idea: i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. moreover, with the surge in raw materials, there are thousands of farms and livestock farmers in total crisis. i hope that the ideas of reducing agricultural production by 30% and leaving 10% of agricultural land uncultivated to protect biodiversity will be immediately put to rest. i mean, it's time to stop with the "greta" ideology. i think that companies, consumers and households need a little seriousness and a little healthy realism, a little realpolitik.
mr. president, i have to ask you... without effective prevention, the number of accidents, illnesses and deaths at work cannot be effectively reduced, or even eliminated. workers must be protected from exposure to carcinogens or toxins. but there are many other things that can cause disease. standing for long periods, sitting, lifting heavy objects or continuous vibration. it is time to take seriously the problems of stress, anxiety, depression, and burnout, as well as the negative effects of working at the expense of leisure. so we can talk about a multifaceted problem, and prevention can play an important role in workplaces by promoting healthy lifestyles, encouraging sports and physical activity.
i now come to the announcement of the results of the first round of voting. (the president declared the results of the first round of voting.)
we shall now continue our debate on the report by mrs marianne vind (a9-0023/2022).
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to stress the importance of the new strategic framework for health and safety at work. this framework represents an important milestone in the protection of workers, which is more than necessary in view of the major changes in the labour market due to digitalisation, demographic changes, but also due to the pandemic. faced with new conditions, we must also set up new strategies to protect workers from adverse effects on their physical and mental health. in the labour market, new challenges are emerging in the form of the need to adapt the labour market for older workers or people who have overcome serious illness and want to re-enter the labour market after a long absence. it is for these workers that we need to develop effective strategies, including for example adaptation of the workplace or flexible work organisation. digitalisation itself, as well as the current pandemic, has shifted much of the work to online environments, but this has meant that many have had to work from home in often unfavourable conditions, combining work with caring for children or relatives. this, unfortunately, has been attributed to increased stress and psychological problems. we know very well that stress and mental discomfort also contribute to the development of various serious diseases, including autoimmune diseases, rheumatic, inflammatory and even oncological diseases. we have to reflect on all of this. let us therefore promote prevention and healthy lifestyles. we protect workers from the negative effects of the workplace, but also from stress and work-life imbalance. on the other hand, it is also necessary to think about the vulnerable and disadvantaged workers and the disabled who want to be fully integrated into the labour market. colleagues, we must do everything we can to ensure that everyone can reach their full potential. i also want to remember the hundreds of thousands of mostly women who have sought refuge with us from the war in ukraine. reaching our full potential will make us stronger at this time of history's break.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the report we are about to vote on, the european parliament is establishing, among other things, the principle of 'zero tolerance' for deaths at work. a crime which in my country, italy, alone sees the death of four workers a day on average. as the five star movement we welcome this report; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. the european strategy of zero deaths at work cannot be limited to a mere declaration of intent, but must include adequate funding, clear and traceable objectives and indicators, and binding mechanisms to ensure the health and safety of all workers. it is absurd that, when the european union monitors the economic and social performance of the member states in the context of the european semester, it does not take into account key indicators such as accidents and deaths at work, with a view to their progressive reduction. health and safety can then no longer be considered an optional matter but an inalienable right of every worker and the cornerstone of a just and civil society.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the world has changed dramatically. we live much faster, we work much faster, and we often work at the edge of our abilities. protecting against health and safety risks and ensuring decent working conditions for the 170 million workers in the union is therefore essential. policies must also reflect the realities of the new digital age. there are new terms. now, with the increased use of the home office in the covid-19 era, we should also reflect that workers in services or certain professions, where they work on computers in their homes, should have the right to disconnect. stress, anxiety, depression or burnout often become our unwilling colleagues, and we see it here in the staff of the european parliament or in you, commissioner, in the european commission. whether it is office or manual work, it is absolutely crucial to ensure standard and satisfactory conditions. i am therefore pleased that the report calls for a revision of the european list of occupational diseases and takes account of mental health disorders. we must also take into account innovative ways of treating them. and let me finish with one thing. the key to success is proper enforcement and implementation, and i therefore call on the european commission to not turn a blind eye to violations of staff conditions and to actively seek to change them.
mr president, if truth be told, we should not die from work. we should not get sick from work. we should not risk burnout because of work. the revision of the european strategy on health and safety at work after the pandemic is totally necessary. in italy, in 2021, one hundred people died at work each month; 10% of these were women. even two young people, giuseppe and lorenzo, aged 16 and 18, recently died during their internship. non-fatal accidents are also increasing, and risks and serious illnesses, stress, psychological disorders and cancer are growing and growing. the covid pandemic has worsened the phenomenon. in a labour market which is changing a lot, old jobs are disappearing and new jobs, often precarious, unpaid, discontinuous, are spreading. we have advanced the legislation in europe on health and safety. now we have to connect the dots with the transformation of the labour market after the pandemic, not to mention the consequences of this cynical and criminal russian aggression of ukraine, with refugees who will have to work in european countries in decent and regular conditions. platform workers, writers, remote workers. no big deal. but are we sure that smart working is really smart when you have to balance kids and work? the right to disconnect has to be part and parcel of remote working. we are now voting for a ‘vision zero’ approach for no more work-related deaths by 2030. this is a huge goal. but, at the end of the day, we have to transform work into what it has to be: good and rewarding. because work gives you dignity. it gives you perspective. it gives you confidence, self-esteem, and it gives you imagination. this is what we are going to fight for forever, we as socialists and democrats, for decent and healthy work everywhere and for everyone.
in writing. in recent months, the european parliament has worked tirelessly to prevent and combat occupational cancers. we are talking about the european plan to fight cancer, or the fourth revision of the cmrd directive, for which i was rapporteur. this report is in addition to our strategy to combat workplace deaths and accidents. the figures are still too high: every year in europe, 3,300 people die, and over 3 million are injured on the job. in italy, more than three deaths per day were recorded in 2021. a slaughter that is often too silent and one that we must take care of. we therefore support the commission's ambitious 'zero fatalities' target, focusing in particular on the prevention of cancer, which is the number one cause of death at work. particular attention should also be paid to cardiovascular problems, as well as to psychological aspects of work, which are on the rise in the post-pandemic period. reducing occupational exposure to dangerous substances, making workplaces safer and cleaner, and ensuring high standards of protection are commitments that we can no longer put off.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, madam president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, transparency for those who hold such a high-level institutional role is not only an administrative and above all ethical duty, but also a guarantee of their good work, which can be so free from illusions, doubts or misunderstandings. if the greatest crisis facing europe and its institutions is the subject of this lack of transparency, then clarity becomes an imperative. perhaps this is precisely the spirit in which the european ombudsman, when asked about access to the text of some of the sms messages which she had allegedly exchanged with the ceo of pfizer, reiterated, and i quote: "access to eu documents is a fundamental right". unfortunately, since the beginning of the covid emergency, there have been several instances where the commission has failed to be transparent, and each time this has happened, its credibility has been undermined. we think of the time when it was discovered by chance, thanks to wikileaks, that the commission was funding the wuhan laboratory and only thanks to a question from our group did the commission itself have to admit that the laboratory was not complying with the required documentation, or when this house strongly asked to be able to see the contracts for the purchase of anti-covid vaccines with the world's leading pharmaceutical companies, except then to see documents that were largely censored being handed over. we are convinced, mr president, of your good faith in dealing with a political and social crisis that has never been seen before and which has required an incredible political effort, but we cannot leave room for doubt, and that is why the question of the so-called sms is not just to know whether they exist or what they contain, but must be the instrument to demonstrate that the commission is above suspicion, so that no one can speculate, misrepresent the lack of transparency or, worse, think that someone is putting commercial interests, perhaps with china, above the interests of european citizens. madam president, we owe it to the victims of covid, we owe it to the families who have suffered and are suffering the health and economic consequences of the pandemic, we owe it to all european citizens. i conclude, mr president: it is always said that this is the home of the european citizen, so let it be a house of glass and flooded with light, where there is never room for any shadow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words on this subject. we have moved from a general debate on the transparency of european commission documents to a specific case. i would first like to thank the vice-president for her introduction, where she clearly described the commission's efforts to make certain processes transparent, the introduction and strengthening of the public portal, etc. but the topic eventually slipped to the negotiation of contracts for covid-19 vaccines and possible sms messages between the commission representative and the manufacturers. for me, it's not so much about transparency, but about political culture. i don't think the debate should be about whether or not the text messages of a high-ranking politician negotiating a contract with a manufacturer should be public. i don't think that texting should be allowed, if it was. such contracts should be negotiated transparently in clear documents in official negotiations and not through some sms message. personally, i do not think that any change in the legislation is necessary, the 2001 regulation, even with the definition of exceptions, is sufficient in my opinion. the question is back in the app. i think that if there are exceptions to transparency, then the commission should interpret them restrictively, not extensively. i see maybe a different approach. in addition to the case mentioned here, i am concerned as the representative of the czech republic with the case of our former prime minister, where an audit was conducted that was not just published with reference to these exceptions, although some experts thought that the audit should be published in the public interest. so again, there's this question of the restriction of the interpretation of exceptions. i think that in the case of the czech prime minister there was just an extensive interpretation of the exceptions and that it was simply not used correctly. i say this in general terms, i don't want to make politics out of it, but we are talking about how the 2001 regulation is applied in practice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i want to clarify the case that we have before us, because it illustrates very well what this is about. we know that in the pandemic the commission has no competence in the field of public health, and yet it has acted. and that has the full support of this parliament. if they had not acted on the purchase of vaccines, we would have seen vaccine inequality within the european union, and that would have been very bad. the disadvantage of not having that power is that there has been too little parliamentary control over the negotiation of those contracts. and then - and that makes it all the more painful - something happened, namely that the policy was personalized. there were many personal contacts, including with commission president von der leyen and the ceo of pfizer. and i've had a very uncomfortable feeling for a long time, because we may not have had vaccine inequality within the european union, but we have had immense vaccine inequality in the world. and the pfizers of europe and the big pharma, including in the united states, have really been able to hide behind the broad back of the european commission in the patent debate. i have the uncomfortable feeling that there are things promised there that the outside world must not know. but i may be wrong. maybe i'm wrong, which is why it's so vitally important that all documents, including texting, be exposed. and you know, this week, a special committee was also approved to evaluate what happened during the coronavirus policy: the good things, the not so good things. and we are going to - i promise you that - as a parliament to the bottom of this story. what was agreed during the negotiations?
mr president, commissioner, it is more than 20 years since the transparency regulation came into force. two decades later, the practice of guaranteeing public access to documents is now established, but this regulation needs to be revised and adapted to today's reality, where communication is done through multiple channels, without necessarily leaving a trace. the european administration should be held accountable for these new media in order to guarantee transparent practices and procedures, which is a key element of democracy. this regulation shall apply without exception to all the bodies of the european union. a new, much broader definition of what a 'document' is will therefore be needed to adapt to the times. this is a matter of governance and trust, especially when taxpayers' money is at stake. and this practice should not be neglected in times of crisis, when the commission signs contracts with pharmaceutical companies where the best interests of citizens must prevail over purely commercial interests.
mr president, we are discussing today a very important topic that concerns a very fundamental general principle of the eu institutions, namely transparency. trust between citizens and the institutions depends on transparency and how it’s practiced. it is central that all institutions function in a transparent manner, according to the regulation that embodies the rules on public access to the documents of the institutions. that ruling is called regulation (ec) 1049/2001. of course, means of communications have changed since then. there is an urgent call to look if that is still unclear, and i think the strong message from the ombudsman, who accused the commission of maladministration, is a need to change the situation. so, important content can be a text message and can be something else. but of course, in real life, there are situations when information cannot be disclosed, but even then, these situations need to be well justified and based on eu law, not wrong predictions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to public money, transparency is a must, and yet we are in 2022 and we have a regulation that is 20 years old, mainly because of the blockade by the european governments in the council, and there are still cases of serious lack of transparency in the eu. i am talking about the turin-lyon high-speed rail project and the 813 million euros of public money to finance it. cinea, the agency in charge, continues to deny access to information on the financing, citing the exception provided for by the public safety regulation, without however giving any valid reasons. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a way that is compatible with the common market. i therefore ask the commission to shed light on this unacceptable situation, because the right of access to documents is one of the founding pillars of the democratic structure of our society.
before we continue the debate, i'd like to open the first vote of the day. let us vote on the items on the agenda. the vote will take place between 9.45 a.m. and 11 a.m. the same voting method as in the previous vote shall be used. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i announce that the first ballot is open. you can vote until 11:00. and the first vote will be announced at 1:00 p.m.
the debate on the commission communication transparency and administrative standards on the processing of public access requests submitted under regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 (2022/0578 ((rsp)) is continuing.
president, ladies and gentlemen, you will remember how hillary clinton got into serious trouble with her email fraud back then. what came out as a conclusion is this: everyone with great responsibilities - certainly political responsibilities with taxpayer money - is obliged to act with care and without secrecy. the european commission is too little aware of the profound impact of the corona crisis on citizens. one of the many effects felt as a scandal is that besides the late and then useless restrictions on freedom the vaccine contracts, once made public, were found to have been rendered illegible by a so-called duty of secrecy. fortunately, thanks to a mistake by a belgian state secretary who tweeted the prices of the vaccines, we now know the price ratios between the vaccines. pfizer, with which the president of the commission had 'created a deep bond of trust', according to a statement by pfizer's bourla, appeared to have the second highest price. the fact that the personal messages between the two, as the commission now claims in its defence, are only 'temporary' is of course not convincing. in your high-flown bubble and in your electric limousines you do not realise the anger of the people who would like nothing more than to see the european commission prove itself ephemeral, of a passing nature.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today for a simple but important reason: citizens deserve to know the truth about the extensive negotiation that appears to have taken place via an exchange of messages between president von der leyen and the ceo of pfizer, regarding the supply of the covid vaccine to the eu. the response of the institutions in the aftermath of the virus has been strong in the fight against it and today we can speak of an almost return to normalcy, despite many mistakes made at all levels. but one thing is certain, emergency cannot justify shady areas or disregard for the rules. it can't even justify doubt. the doubts that the commission's refusal to grant access to the file may be concealing something else. we are therefore here to shed light on what has happened, also following the indications of the european ombudsman, who has decided to open an inquiry. you see, there can be no power without responsibility and there can be no responsibility without power. today we are not talking about an exchange of messages, but about a violation of a principle, namely the transparency of the commission's action. and the commission's reply, that this kind of communication is not relevant, is as weak as it is suspicious. as the ombudsman pointed out, it is the content that counts and not the form used. we therefore ask the commission to answer for its actions: it owes it to us, but it owes it first and foremost to the citizens who have faced this pandemic with sacrifice and their respect for the rules.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i am sure that president von der leyen is following this debate, but on the other hand, i think i am the right person to address it here today because i am paid to work on the transparency of the commission. so that’s why i am glad to be here and to be allowed to listen to your debate and also to be able to answer, which i want to do now. i agree with ms incir, who said that without transparency there is no accountability. i myself used this sentence so many times when we were discussing and negotiating the transparency register. and, believe me, the commission was the one that was pushing for as strong transparency as possible because, from what i heard, it was the other two institutions that were saying how we should be more careful, not be so open, that we have to be operational, not publish documents during trilogues, and so on. so i don’t agree with sophia in ‘t veld when she says that the commission is not trustworthy enough. i have been working in this institution for many years now, and i can see that there is a high level of support for the maximum possible transparency. so we will work with the parliament and the council to do better, because i agree with those of you who said that there is a lot of room for improvement. i will come to this because this is the debate about one case, and also systemic matters relating to the way in which we communicate and enable access to documents. on the ad-hoc case, the text messages, i have to say that in times of crisis, indeed, when you are an executive body and you have the burden of responsibility on your shoulders, you have to be operational; you sometimes have to engage in personal communication; you have to be fast. as for the burden of responsibility, well, we can discuss it, whether we should have done what we did: we invested in vaccine research; we invested a lot in having common procurement and, as you said, the eu has very little competence in the field of health care. in spite of that, president von der leyen took the risks and she engaged heavily, days and nights, in guaranteeing the early delivery of the vaccines to the european people, and i admire her for this work. i think that in this case, she is the role model, not the other way around. you may not see her as a role model of transparency but i see her as a role model for taking her responsibility seriously and acting quickly and in an efficient way. as for what mr annemans said, that the commission acted in an ephemeral way, well if that had been the case we would not have had the people vaccinated in europe. so i’m sorry but i have to look at this case also in context and the real nature of the situation, and this was at the peak of the covid-19 crisis. but this case is not closed, and i said before that we are preparing an answer to the ombudsman with a deadline of 26 april, and we will give all of the information necessary to reply to the ombudsman’s requests. on the systemic side, so let’s make an agreement to increase the system, or improve the system, of access to documents in all three institutions – in the commission, parliament and council. you know well that we have the legislation from 2001 and you said it here many times that the rules need to be modernised. i agree 100%. when we started in covid times with purely online communication, not face to face, and with a lot of telephone diplomacy, i felt myself that this was a new way of communicating and was something which should be reflected also in how transparent we are. so i agree that we need to reflect in new rules that there are modern channels and modern ways of communication, and that should be our new interpretation of the exemptions which mr pospíšil called for. there should be a new, precise definition of what constitutes a document. i agree with all that. so, my question to you is whether you will unblock the situation around the directives, which were prepared to update the rules from 2001, and whether we will be able to withdraw the legislation which is pending and prepare new rules. we are working on them. and if this will not be possible for all the institutions, we are determined to come with new internal rules for the commission. and as i said many times before, i don’t want to wait because i am really convinced that we have to modernise the rules and reflect also the new technological reality. so this is my call for cooperation with the parliament to push things forward where they should be pushed, in the interest of higher transparency and better access to documents. so i wanted to be concrete in my answer, also to confirm that i am aware that we should do better, and i am ready to cooperate.
the debate is closed.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the need to adopt an eu strategy for sustainable textiles (2022/2539 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, the textiles sector has major effects on our climate and our environment and, in fact, textiles consumption is one of the top four supply-chain pressures on resource use, land use, water and greenhouse gas emissions. as a value chain, it places huge pressure on biodiversity. many hazardous chemicals are still used in textile products and a considerable share of the microplastics released into the environment can be traced back to the source. the sector also plays a crucial role to ensure the labour rights of workers in europe and abroad. worst of all, the trends are moving in the wrong direction. we throw away clothes faster than ever before, and we use them for ever shorter periods of time. most of them end up in landfill or incineration. around the world, less than one percent of all textiles are now recycled into new textiles. we need to encourage and support the sector to do better. in the eu, it employs 1.5 million people in more than 160 000 companies, most of which are smes. in 2019, the annual turnover was eur 162 billion. when we talk about textiles, we are talking about everything from the automotive and agriculture sectors to home furnishings, clothing and medical equipment. the largest share of our textiles consumption is fashion. we are a major destination for textiles and garments. in 2019, the eu was the second largest global importer of clothing and, in the first 15 years of this century, world production of textiles more or less doubled. the consumption of clothing, footwear and household textiles happening in europe creates the most impact in other regions of the world, where the majority of production takes place. for textile supply chains, the pandemic brought considerable disruption and many citizens realize that the sector needs radical change. as all other sectors, textiles needs to build back better. we need to help the sector to do that. we need to build in more circularity and sustainability, and that’s vital to address climate change, to help win the fight against pollution and to reduce the pressure on nature and reverse biodiversity loss. we need to do it while preserving and creating growth and decent jobs, respecting human rights. at the end of this month, as announced in the circular economy action plan, the commission will adopt an eu strategy for sustainable and circular textiles. it will be a strategy to strengthen innovation and reduce the environmental footprint, a strategy to boost the market for sustainable and circular textiles, a strategy for increasing textile reuse and repair, boosting circular business models and addressing fast fashion, and a strategy that can also boost the competitiveness of sustainable textiles industries. social aspects, including working conditions, will also be considered. the strategy builds on extensive consultations and input from stakeholders, who supported its development through thematic workshops and online public consultation. at its heart is a new approach to design. we want textiles to be more durable, recyclable and easier to reuse, repair and upgrade. that way, we reduce the consumption of resources, we extend the lifespan of textile products and we boost the recovery of valuable materials and components at the end-of-life stage. it means better material efficiency, a reduced environmental footprint and a longer textile-usage life. acting at the design phase makes it easier to choose materials free of hazardous substances and made of recycled fibres. it also means that microplastics can be designed out of the process. for all these reasons, textiles will also be a key value chain in the upcoming sustainable product initiative. as promised in the european green deal, we are acting to ensure that sustainable products become the norm. it is part of our drive for a climate-neutral europe by 2050, but more sustainable and circular design alone will not be enough. we need to reduce consumption altogether, in particular in the fashion sector. that’s why we find it especially important to boost the uptake of new business models. these include, for example, more circular models like reuse, resale, repair on demand, manufacturing and product as service. in our sustainable product initiative, we will propose another powerful tool, which will be useful for textiles, the digital product passport, which will improve access to information about product characteristics. that way, all economic actors can make decisions that are better informed. it will enable better transparency and traceability for the value chain, which is particularly important for textiles. action on the supply chain needs to be coupled with initiatives to empower consumers, and that’s why the commission is also preparing a legislative proposal on green claims in order to fight greenwashing and to ensure that claims are based on reliable, verifiable and comparable information. we aim to present that later this year. we also need to take into account the international dimension. what we do internally also has an impact on operators in partner countries, and that’s why our strategy ambition is, together with our partner countries, to tie sustainable and circular textile value chains globally. also important for the textile value chain is the legislative proposal on corporate sustainability due diligence recently adopted by the commission. it comes with a corporate sustainability due diligence obligation to prevent and mitigate actual adverse impacts for sustainability. when it comes to achieving our social, environmental and climate goals, the textile sector plays a pivotal role. but to play that pivotal role, the sector needs to change. the strategy we are presenting will help drive that change. it means new ways of doing business, different patterns of production and consumption, products that are durable and repairable, and citizens who care, refashioning and sharing the textiles they wear. it’s time to redefine the textile economy in europe and with our partner countries. we are counting on the support of the european parliament and we look forward to your views on the strategy we propose. with citizens, youth and stakeholders working together, it’s time to rethink the structure of textiles. it’s time to refashion fashion.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner, to be honest, i don’t believe a word. we have been announcing that for years. it had been this parliament strengthening the research programme, doubling the challenge for the creative industries, for innovation. we are facing a transitional phase where clothing is not just about sustainability and new textiles. we are going to a world where fibres will change the consistence of textiles. it will be related to health, to information, to the digital world, to a lot of other things. but we hear announcements. we hear announcements. we hear announcements. there’s still no transition pathway which had been announced by the commission as part of the 14 ecosystems, where you described the textile industry as one of the 14. there is no transition pathway. there is no strategy. there are just an announcements. and yet another referred that what we share to sustainability. but it is just another administrative nightmare you’re describing. this industry is hit. we have been losing one million jobs before the pandemic, another 500 million within the pandemic, and the commission is waiting. for two and half years you could have done calls in the research programme. we have eur 2.3 billion for the creative industry. we have a new powerhouse and you are announcing, and you’re announcing, and you’re announcing. and this sector, yes, has to change. and this sector is up for potential for the future. that’s one of the european usps. that is what europe can do where fashion is leading, where a young generation is interested, but instead, announcement, and another administrative nightmare. so go to action, not announce, you would have had two and a half years, tons of money in the research programme to start innovation products. not a single one.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. textiles are one of the biggest drivers of our raw material consumption. the global textile industry is the fifth largest emitter of co2, about on par with the automotive industry. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide the union with a financial contribution to the european union's climate action programme. however, the announcements so far have mainly focused on reuse, recycling and repairability, commissioner. the logic is clear. reducing resource consumption is a major lever for more efficient use. but the second major lever has been largely ignored - the promotion of sustainable materials. the textiles used have a major negative impact on land use and the environment. cotton, which accounts for 43% of all textiles, requires a lot of land and water, fertilisers and pesticides. the production takes place mainly in countries with significantly lower sustainability standards than in the eu. polyester is extracted from fossil raw materials and is a source of microplastics that end up in waterways. i would like to turn your attention today, commissioner, to the forests. they have the potential to make a substantial contribution to sustainable textiles. textiles containing cellulose derived from wood currently account for less than 10%. the european forest institute estimated that an increase of this proportion to about 50% is realistic. the three to five times lower carbon footprint compared to cotton and polyester means that emissions can be saved on the order of more than 400 million tonnes. this example calculation shows that the strategy is short-sighted if it does not also focus more on raw materials for textiles. i very much hope that the commission will not ignore this potential.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i fully agree with the position of the commissioner. there are unluckily two major problems regarding the textile sector. they are very technical. number one is the colouring of the textile, which is on one side strongly regulated by the workers’ safety regulation, the environmental emissions regulation and so on, but on the other side is still a problem. we need funds and we need research centres so that we can change 2 000 years of history. the other problem is the release of micro- and nanoplastics. and for this, we do not have a technical solution to filter and take out this nanoplastic from the water that goes into the sea and then gets eaten by the fish and then we eat them. now, of course, i would like to see on these funds to find a solution about this. reduction of artificial textiles is a solution but it is not the only solution. i would like to see a full economic, social and technical assessment of a more stringent regulation on the textile sector, because otherwise we are going to kill a very important economic thing. on the positive side, we do have all the social media platforms that are trading in used clothing which are reducing the number of clothes going to the landfills. last but not least, i really do not understand the politically correct approach in opposition to natural fibres and to natural material like leather and fur. they are natural, they last longer than the artificial stuff, they do not contain microplastic. so are we defending the environment or the animals?
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thomas jefferson said that 'where the press is free and everyone can read, there is no danger'. the sunny side of our democracies is freedom of the press. because a free press can be good or bad, but without freedom the press can only be bad. that is why what has been happening in mexico for years is very worrying. official figures provided by the mexican government speak of 43 journalists killed from december 2018 to july 2021, and this unacceptable trend continues into 2022, with at least six journalists already murdered. two years ago today i was in mexico on an official mission of parliament. it is a country with great potential for growth, it is the 15th largest economy in the world and it is becoming over the years not a nation of immigrants to america but a destination for immigrants from south america. the security and crime problem in the country is one of the main problems that hamper greater development opportunities. mexico recorded 33,308 murders in 2021, and the official figure may be lower than the real figure. a scary report, which underlines the inability of the mexican authorities to cope with the emergency, is based on impunity. usually, the people accused of murder are just pawns, the people who did it go free and unpunished. the doubt is that all this is also attributable to the policies of the socialist mexican president obrador, who has made little impact in fighting criminals. it also prefers to invest in socialist policies, which block the development of the country, rather than in the repression of violent crime. his wavering statements condemning putin's invasion of ukraine are dangerously similar to the pro-russian stance of the communist dictators of venezuela and cuba. it is the duty of this house to condemn the indulgent attitude of those who have the power to take drastic measures and impose an urgent strategy to protect the safety and freedom of these professionals. we must act now so that no journalist has to die and the fundamental right to information can be guaranteed again in mexico.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, those of us who are lucky enough to have been born in the third millennium have long believed that we live in peace and prosperity. today, tragedy is in ukraine, but only two years ago, tragedy struck just a few hundred kilometres to the south, in a small strip of land between armenia and azerbaijan, in a region called artsakh, where thousands of innocent people, soldiers and civilians, lost their lives in a matter of weeks, and where a priceless cultural heritage is in danger. on this occasion, as in 1915, and as in 1938, we are facing a turning point in history: remain indifferent, passive spectators, or open our eyes to the systematic destruction of one of the world's oldest and most fascinating cultures. history, as we know, is made by peoples. but it's always the winners who write it. and when they do, the m.o. is ruthless and elaborate: erasing memory, denying history, creating a parallel narrative and finally propaganda. the duty of the institutions, and therefore our duty, is even greater where it is necessary to protect the memory and support those who, for fear of retaliation, have not even been able to express their dissent against russia's bombing of ukraine. we've let them down before, and now they don't want to expose themselves. respect for the history of the vanquished, laying the foundations for building a future of respect and civilized coexistence, acknowledging the atrocities of genocide. this is europe. for this reason it is our duty to commit ourselves and to commit unesco and all the parties concerned to carry out, census and protect the history and cultural heritage of artsakh. the destruction of the historical heritage of a people violates the principles of democratic europe, and it sets the clock back to 1915 and the human being repeats the same mistake for the umpteenth time, yet again.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the peace that we have always taken for granted in europe is no longer the case. peace requires four essential conditions: truth, justice, love and freedom. this statement by pope john paul ii is more timely today than ever. if putin is trampling on all four of these conditions, we on the contrary must witness them, with all our political, diplomatic and moral strength, lest we slip into a new devastating world conflict. pursuing the truth, supporting free journalism and never lying to the public. pursuing justice and punishing war crimes committed in ukraine. the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to the protection of the rights of the child. let us show by our actions that we are different from the barbarism and work for peace in ukraine. at the same time, the european union must take a further step forward. let's put the stability pact to rest once and for all and approve an energy recovery fund against the expensive bills and for investments in renewables. let us prove once again that when the european union is needed, it is there and it means business.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this bloody and unfortunate war cannot be paid for by the citizens of europe. we are too dependent on imported hydrocarbons and raw materials and we must work to ensure that european agriculture is soon self-sufficient and sustainable, while remaining safe for consumers. we encourage domestic production, especially of wheat, corn and sunflowers. we give resources that make it affordable to grow and process the product here. we must stop the bad habit of importing grain at a lower price than the price we pay for it, and we cannot always be sure of its quality. we must stop using glyphosate to lower the price of our own grain in a perverse market game where farmers lose and only multinationals gain. we are restoring those who have suffered losses, we are helping those who want to produce in a virtuous way, making ourselves independent of russian and ukrainian raw materials, but without even thinking of using war to betray the work done so far on organic, the limitation of pesticides, sustainability and the defence of biodiversity. today we are faced with a great responsibility, we have in our hands the future of millions of european citizens and their children. we can't turn back or turn around.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr putin's unjustified and unjustifiable war against ukraine is showing us that food pressure and famine are also political weapons and negotiation issues. a strong and coherent response from the european union is therefore urgently needed. we must help ukraine, a country with a strong agricultural vocation, to keep up its production and to supply it with food, by working on the construction of food corridors alongside humanitarian ones. we must unlock our productive potential to achieve the highest possible degree of food self-sufficiency, while preserving those social and environmental sustainability goals which are themselves the fundamental tools for achieving our food sovereignty. finally, we have a responsibility to feed those third countries, i am thinking for example of those in africa and the middle east, which depend on ukrainian agriculture. already unstable and fragile regions that could become new hotbeds of tension and conflict with unforeseeable consequences. preventing hunger and famine is not only a moral imperative but also a strategic one if we are to secure a future of peace for all of europe and for the entire planet.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the feeling from this morning's debate is that here the objectives are set first and only then is it considered whether they are achievable or not. cutting off two-thirds of russian gas imports has geostrategic value, sure, but few are thinking about the risk of energy rationing. the common gas purchasing policy is a failure of the market logic on which the union's energy policy has been built in recent years. this is the impression that it is an idea that has passed away before it has been thoroughly studied. the compulsory storage quotas are certainly a good idea, but they will raise prices and they are not what we need. finally, over the years you have created all the conditions for the union to become dependent, too dependent, on energy imports. the title of this debate, 'the power of the eu', is a mockery of businesses and households who cannot pay their bills.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy crisis is choking businesses and citizens, is undermining economic recovery and, last but not least, is giving putin's russia a weapon of blackmail against europe. the european union was born out of the ashes of war, out of energy itself, as the coal and steel community. maybe we haven't learned our lesson. the vision of the founding fathers in recent decades has left room for ideologies and guilt. so today we are in the pursuit of energy independence, which is essential to strengthening europe's role in the world. the time to act is now. exceptional measures are needed now to diversify sources of supply, stop demonizing gas and nuclear and face reality with the real impact of renewables in the short term. the priority today is to protect our economy, competitiveness, value chains and above all jobs. to do that, we need a review of the green deal and we need concrete and realistic responses. otherwise, europe will abdicate its own history.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the serious humanitarian crisis that has hit europe in recent weeks is a shocking development. putin's war has forced millions of ukrainian women and children to flee their land to the sound of air raid sirens and bombs. the dramatic images we see on the polish border should make us think and act promptly. those who escape from a real war must be helped immediately and without delay. i therefore appreciated the responsiveness and the timeliness and the concreteness with which the commission prepared the care proposal. i also thank the chairman and the coordinators of the regi committee, with whom, despite some initial uncertainties, we worked together in a united and fruitful manner. that is why, as the identity and democracy group, our support will be forthcoming. with regard to the cohesion action for refugees in europe, the flexibility and speed of this new instrument to support and meet the basic needs of ukrainian refugees is welcome. the commission is also proposing to extend the 100% eu co-financing for cohesion policy funding for the period 2014-2020 until 2022. this will help to alleviate budgetary pressures on member states and regions, already badly hit by the widespread impact of the pandemic crisis. but we must not forget two important aspects. the first is that it is a reallocation of resources from the previous programming and therefore there will be no additional resources. the second is that the scope of this instrument should not be widened in any way. in this particular historical context, we do not have a single emergency, but multiple factors of crisis that weigh on the regions and on cohesion policy. i am thinking of the explosion in energy costs and the supply of raw materials, which are putting citizens and businesses in many regions, such as the mountainous areas of my own country, in difficulty. once again, cohesion policy has proved to be the ideal tool for dealing with emergencies. and perhaps this should also make us reflect on how strategic long-term policies are sometimes lacking. but this is not the place to discuss it. i would like to conclude, mr president, by expressing my sincere thanks to the local and national governments who have worked very hard to deal with this emergency, and i expect the whole house to give them due respect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in less than a month since the war began, one in two ukrainian children has left their home and is now displaced. the european union is today, and perhaps will be in the coming months, their only home, the place where these children can live safely, safe from bombs. we have a great responsibility, therefore, because it is up to us to save the families, the elderly and the children who are dying of hunger and cold in the besieged cities. because it is up to us to help the ukrainian people who are defending freedom and democracy from putin's murderous violence. because it will be up to us to help rebuild kiev and the other ukrainian cities destroyed by russian bombs. every frame of this war hurts our eyes and annihilates our sense of humanity. but we have to be different. we europeans must bear witness to the importance of the individual's sense of responsibility for social, cultural and political life. "i cari", said don milani, for whom he was the beacon of life, the only light in the darkness of inhumanity. europe should demand, indeed demand, that russia open up genuine humanitarian corridors, because it is everyone's duty to keep civilians out of this conflict. first the refugees to safety, then the ceasefire and peace. the road of diplomacy is the only one that can prevent an escalation of violence with unimaginable consequences. we have to move fast. we're being asked that by millions of children who are asking us, "why?"
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes good intentions are accompanied by risks. we need to use the most environmentally friendly vehicles to achieve the climate targets we have set ourselves here in the eu, and certainly renting is a useful tool for businesses to manage those temporary spikes in demand. but we must be careful that this directive does not become a tool to circumvent the cabotage legislation. the mobility package has shown that the risks of unfair competition in road transport are still very much present in europe and that the cost is borne by small operators and, still too often, by drivers, who are victims of dumping and difficult working conditions. it is therefore good that the council has drawn up a text which allows the member states a certain degree of flexibility in implementing: but we must remain vigilant to ensure that this text does not further undermine the road transport market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not know whether you are aware of what is happening. we have a war and we have jackals who are exploiting the infamous war promoted by putin to enrich themselves, raising the price of energy and bringing whole families, businesses, sectors that count millions of workers to their knees. in sicily and sardinia, as in many parts of europe, the situation is dire: farmers, fishermen, truck drivers are on their knees for expensive energy. then let's stop with the palliative care right now. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. who's afraid of offshore wind and ocean currents? who's that? maybe those who want to stop the green transition like to be on the heels of putin and his oligarchs. the european citizens do not want to! europe wants clean energy and complete independence from the fossil fuel masters. - right now! not when it's too late or when another war breaks out.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every minute in ukraine a child becomes a refugee: this is the alarm that unicef sounded a few days ago. how many of them, in little more than a month, have had their lives turned upside down, forced to grow up quickly by the horrors of war, locked in the underground with the sound of bombs, which is taking away their dreams and their hopes? half of those who have left the country are minors, some 2 million children on the move in search of a better future. the european union must make it a priority to deal with them: in this exodus, many risk ending up in the trafficking market. this is why we must ensure that, at the point of entry, a system is in place to identify and register children, especially those who arrive unaccompanied by their parents, and to check who they are travelling with. their specific needs need to be identified and, if necessary, they need to be placed in specialised communities. then there are disabled children and orphans who are still in the middle of the conflict; there are so many surrogate babies, kept in the bunkers of the clinics, waiting, like packages, for their buyers to come and pick them up. a tragedy in the tragedy. all these small countries need humanitarian corridors to ensure that they can reach the european union safely. these and other points are the points of our resolution. it would have been an important signal for this hemicycle to involve all political groups, to provide a unified response to the plight of these children. colleagues, there must be no political flags on the children: now is the time for us to join forces to give these children a future. and as gandhi said, if we want to teach real peace in this world and if we want to wage a war against war, we should start with the children.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the war there have been four million ukrainian refugees in the european union, including over one million children, of whom we are speaking today, in relation to their route to europe and all the measures we are taking to welcome them and to protect their rights, which, as has been said, are fundamental. i would like to emphasize a problem which is particularly dear to me, namely that all these children and young people, students, are forced, among other things, to discontinue all study and training activities. so i think if we really want, as it is true that we want to protect young people fleeing war, we have to go beyond the reception and work on integration as well. i believe it is essential to organise humanitarian academic corridors and other solidarity initiatives to welcome ukrainian teachers and students to our universities. i believe that we must make every effort to ensure that the dialogue and the relations between the scientific community, universities and students on the run are never interrupted. that is why i believe we must promote a european strategy to guarantee the right to continuity of education and university, both for young refugees who are in the union and for young people who want to flee and come to the european union, through the implementation of an extraordinary programme, an 'erasmus4ukraine' for example, which provides for the possibility of enrolling for free during this year and above all by promoting a small derogation, which is the derogation from the learning agreement between universities, which is obviously not possible at this time because many teachers and many professors are unfortunately at war. the recognition of diplomas and credits acquired in european universities will thus be facilitated and will thus be a key element for young ukrainians, also in their future participation in the reconstruction and rebirth of their country. the greatness of our european political project has always been to put before everyone the need to unite the peoples and to build together widespread prosperity and peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are almost 3 million children in urgent need and only 47 000 have been reached by educational and recreational material and psychosocial support. still too few. among those in need of immediate support are students who have been directly or indirectly affected by the war. the major challenges at the moment are for states to integrate all students rapidly into their education and training systems and to provide specialised educational support for those with specific needs. we must prevent this war from having further long-term effects, such as school dropout or segregation in schools, which lead to social exclusion and discrimination. in this sense, the absence of representatives of the national states here today is a bad sign. it is essential that digital education tools are used to the full so that all students can continue their education. however, these are and must remain measures complementary to the teaching in the presence of the pupils; in the context of the european year of the environment, the commission has launched a new initiative entitled 'a european year of the environment'. it's a way to give them moments of normal life, things like school, socializing, sports, affection. member states will have to make a further effort by recognising diplomas, qualifications and periods of learning not only for students but also for educators. another element that we cannot forget is that all students fleeing from ukraine, including international students, can complete their diplomas because they too are in an emergency situation. i would like to conclude by reminding you that it is crucial that we take a coordinated approach to this emergency, but even more important is that we learn from this terrible war to provide immediate support for refugee children, of any origin, fleeing from any war. europe must change course and invest in an open system of reception, capable of receiving those fleeing war and violence, starting with children. and those who violate the rule of law and human rights remain adversaries of the european union, both within and outside our borders.
in writing. the atrocities that are taking place in ukraine are claiming many victims. sadly, many of these are children, with an estimated death toll of over 130. many children have also been forced to leave their homes, often unaccompanied by their families or mothers. we must give the utmost importance to the protection of these innocent lives, so that they do not end up as prisoners of criminal organizations involved in human trafficking, one of the most real dangers for unaccompanied minors. the creation of ad hoc humanitarian corridors must be a priority. in addition, great attention should be paid to children in ukrainian orphanages. in fact, even before the war, ukraine was one of the countries that couples were turning to when they wanted to adopt. estimates suggest that at least 100,000 children are being cared for in 663 orphanages. we must ensure these children are protected immediately: it is therefore important to facilitate the process of intercountry adoption in order to remove hundreds of children from a situation of insecurity. protecting children from the horrors of war and ensuring a future of peace, hope and happiness is one of the most important challenges we face.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the tran committee, i think that, for once, the dream book should be set aside. it would be useful to take into account that the transport sector needs practical solutions and, above all, solutions which at this historic stage do not lead to higher prices for companies, a key issue, especially now that fuel prices have literally exploded. let us not forget where we started with the negotiation of this dossier: there was even someone who wanted to eliminate any support for natural gas infrastructure projects. we are therefore looking ahead, aware that even crossborder ten-e projects will have to take account of production and supply requirements. for the transport sector, the tran committee is trying to move in this direction with regard to liquefied natural gas and biogas, which are necessary for the transition. secondly, those who think only in terms of ideology have little understanding of what it means to take the truck and travel hundreds of kilometres every day.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the aggression against ukraine has turned the energy issue into an economic crisis that is hitting households and businesses hard. our citizens seem helpless to witness price increases that risk bringing us soon to a new recession. at this stage, addressing the role of transeuropean energy networks is strategic for all of us. that is why we have asked in the negotiations to examine such a crucial issue from a technological neutral point of view. no one denies the progress, the research or the ambitions for decarbonization. but to deal with the current crisis we would have preferred a less ideological approach: the role of natural gas transmission networks, which is essential for the continent's energy security and, above all, for reducing emissions, continues to be marginalized, at least until alternative solutions are developed. the preference for electricity or hydrogen is insisted on, and no one denies the potential of these, especially when they are based entirely on renewable energy. but to limit ourselves today to these technologies, without considering the role of other sources, is to deceive ourselves and, in practical terms, to fail to give the immediate answers that citizens and businesses are clamoring for. if the challenge of this mandate is really strategic autonomy, we cannot afford to discard available solutions for ideological reasons alone. as we have often said in other green deal dossiers, we call for more pragmatism, especially in this emergency phase.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 2023 will be a special year with a historic budget. and so it is critical that after the pandemic, and now with the war in ukraine, that brave, necessary, fundamental and extraordinary choices are made. the report by mr ştefănuţă is going in the right direction and also incorporates the proposals of the agri committee, recognising the central role of agricultural policy, but this is not enough. the increase in diesel fuel, the increase in electricity, feed and fertilisers and the need to guarantee food autonomy probably require an extraordinary fund for farmers, in addition to the cap, almost a food recovery plan, which will make it possible to increase production and reduce dependence on third countries, perhaps by facilitating the conversion of land in regions affected by pathogens, as happened in puglia with xylella, and will make it possible to guarantee the right level of income for farmers, thus encouraging the entry of young girls and boys.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the high representative for being here today. i would like to return to the subject of nato. in a very brief way, i would ask you what are the main obstacles you see in the implementation of the strategic compass and its timetable, with reference to the complementarity between the european union and nato and above all how the strategic concept, which you have already mentioned before, of nato, should reflect the new role of security and defence actor that the european union is trying to assume in the ukrainian crisis, for example. in other words, high representative: how do we align the positions of the european union countries with those of nato? what progress can the two organizations make in the next five years?
so i ask you, high representative, what else can the european union put in place in its political organisation to support its nato member states in the effort to defend europe as a whole?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to recall the words of high representative borrell when he said that no religious or social reason could ever justify the unequal treatment of women in afghanistan. we europeans find this all the more unacceptable, and i particularly welcome the words of the foreign ministers of many countries, including the united kingdom, germany, belgium and norway, who have strongly denounced the taliban's lie about reopening schools to girls. it is since the beijing conference that we have defined women's rights as human rights. and for us too, the afghan crisis is a test. first, by ensuring that any possible dialogue, such as the one in oslo, is aligned with the principle of gender equality, including in the representation of the european union in the negotiations, because it is our duty to do more. i therefore ask the commission, madam commissioner, to consider the proposal which has already been made in this house and which i stress, to bring together the afghan women whom we have welcomed into our countries and who are refugees in the member states of the european union, in an organisation, in a forum which supports the work of the european institutions which are engaged in humanitarian aid to afghanistan - afghanistan destroyed by the taliban - and to measure the taliban by their actions, not by their words.
in the name of the id group. madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that the summit was a lost opportunity because, of course, china's silence disappoints us, but it confirms that it is a country with deep ambiguities and that it does not want to use its potential influence to solve, or help us solve, a very serious problem, putin's russia's aggression against ukraine. and we have to make decisions in these months that are very important for our future. we are rightly talking about strategic autonomy, we are rightly talking about the need to finally break free from dependence on russia, but with legislative proposals which i am in part critical of, which i would like to change in another way; we know very well how much dependence there is on china, which is not only on manufacturing but also in the whole package of "ready for 55%", because we need reciprocity, she said, but because we do not even have to make political and geostrategic decisions by choosing between different dictatorships: the xinjiang issue, the bloody crackdown on protests in hong kong, the continued violation and threat to taiwan. i don't think china is reliable. i believe china wants to work to divide us, to divide the western front as well; i think what china is doing in africa is very serious and i think we have been too often timid about the proposal we are working on in parliament on hostile takeovers, on value chains that need to be changed and made less problematic. and maybe we should also remember to ask what happened in wuhan just over two years ago. so i hope that these dramatic months don't push us to make choices that give china an additional competitive edge. in this respect the european commission must know that there is great unity in the european parliament and that we can all work together in this direction.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the key question in this debate is: what does it mean to be an active citizen today? does it mean turning our backs on the children, women and elderly who are fleeing the war in ukraine? i'm not sure. is it a waste of our planet's resources? i'm not sure. does it mean promoting referendums against minorities, like the lgbt community, or not protecting the most vulnerable in our society, like the disabled? i'm not going to. mr president, since the five star movement was founded in 2009, it has always aimed at a policy of yes. we are a community of citizens born of the guarantee of values such as those of active citizenship, which are those of participation, direct democracy, peace and the defence of human rights. we will never betray these values and we would like the european union to do the same by investing more in the first educational agencies: family and school. it is more important than ever to strengthen respect for human dignity, social justice and cultural diversity in our society. let's do this for our kids. let's do this now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, education is an essential right for the development of active citizenship, through which every citizen can contribute to the democratic development of society. the importance of teaching and civic education was reiterated in 2015 by the education ministers of the european union, who promote citizenship and common european values against all forms of radicalisation. civic education must be taught in full compliance with article 165 of the treaty on european union, which states that the union may only intervene in education in full respect of the responsibility of the member states and cultural and linguistic diversity. there can be no european citizenship without the recognition and protection of the local, linguistic and cultural identities of the individual member states. the european union must first of all be a union of peoples and not just of nations, in order to safeguard our culture, our traditions and our history.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the european council's conclusions on the war in ukraine contain statements which are of no use or value in achieving the objective which we should all be pursuing, namely the cessation of the conflict. the demand that russia withdraw unconditionally, allowing the situation to return to the situation before its troops entered ukrainian territory, is a mere verbal, pleonastic and pleonastic exercise. i also remember that before 24 february ukraine was not exactly a peaceful country, since the war in donbass has been going on for eight years and there have also been massacres of civilians, women and children, in our indifference. nor was it democratic, given the repressive measures taken by his government against russian-speaking citizens and the opposition. but in any case, the heavy sanctions against the russian and belarusian people have had no effect on the war scenario, while they have triggered a very serious energy crisis and repercussions on the industrial, agricultural and food systems of european countries. today i am hearing proposals for a total embargo on russian gas, which is in fact absolutely unsustainable for our economy, on the basis of the bucha facts reported by the ukrainian government, but the veracity of which is already in doubt. we should rather send an independent inquiry to ukraine to investigate the real dynamics of events and the real responsibility for the violence and massacres against civilians. the un under-secretary-general, speaking to the security council, reported on allegations of sexual violence by ukrainian forces and civil protection militias and the un, with the humanitarian mission, is investigating these allegations. so further european funding of the arms industry or further sanctions will only prolong this war, increase the death toll and worsen a crisis that is affecting an already weak europe. the european union should regain its role as a third party and an objective one, by appointing a representative who is super partes, in order to facilitate the negotiations and bring about the cessation of hostilities, which can only be achieved through effective mediation which sees neither victors nor losers. our citizens want a europe which promotes peace and stability, they do not want to finance a war and exacerbate a rift with our neighbouring governments and peoples, both geographically and culturally. let us listen to our citizens!
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 december 2021, a political agreement was reached on the data governance act, for which i was the shadow rapporteur. the data economy is estimated to be worth about 900 billion euros in the next five years, at least we read that, and it also concerns the effectiveness of scientific research, and that is very important. the covid-19 pandemic has accelerated the use of digital and, with it, the production of data that can be considered a mine of information that should not be wasted, but must be protected and used in noble ways as well. today, much data remains unused for fear of being illegally exchanged. the need to create secure national and european structures where businesses and citizens can provide and store data, and make some of it available in a reworked form under certain conditions, has long been felt. this agreement encourages the wider use and reuse of data held by public bodies. this shall be achieved by using secure processing environments and anonymization techniques, such as differential privacy and the creation of synthetic data. we are aware of the importance of the future european digital sovereignty in the context of global competition balances and, as the league, we will monitor the effectiveness of these rules so that the privacy rights of citizens are guaranteed, but also the protection of industrial and business secrets. in addition, data altruism should be encouraged: those who want wider access to data and in particular for scientific research - commissioner, i am thinking of endometriosis - might find that this mechanism makes it easier for them. those who operate non-profit for general interest purposes could become a recognized organization for data altruism. during the trilogues and during the discussion of the package, we as a group drew attention to some of the criticisms that this instrument presented. we have proposed a correction of the text with amendments to include small and mediumsized enterprises, which represent the economic, social and cultural substratum of europe and italy; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of inquiry is increasingly under threat in various parts of the world today. according to the latest un report in july 2020, university autonomy and cuts in funding for higher education are on the agenda in different parts of the world. in iran, turkey, egypt, pakistan, violations are constant and often lead to the expulsion of teachers and researchers who are not aligned with the dominant political and religious thought. we europeans must not, however, mistakenly believe that we are safe: the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome. for history not to be rewritten, we must recognize the threats from within and without and act quickly to ward them off. we're keeping our guard up.
i am thinking, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at this moment of two politicians from my country, italy. the first is matteo salvini, who has been explaining for years that putin is an extraordinary reference: he shows off his face in t-shirts, participates in secret meetings with his entourage in the shadows and makes dark deals. the second is david sassoli, who, having been declared by putin as an unwelcome guest in russia, claims his coherence and quotes tolstoy: "there is no greatness where there is no truth". today, more than ever, this difference makes it clear that in these years we have not all been the same. as we wrote in the first report of our special committee on interference and disinformation, as mr glucksmann reminded us, the most radical and sovereign right wing in italy, france, germany and austria was the vehicle of putin's project. in the face of this, in these weeks when the war against the ukrainian people is bringing destruction and pain, we demand from salvini, from le pen, that you say 'on putin and with putin we have got it all wrong'. we expect you to break all ties and allow us to understand more about the ambiguous attempt, fuelled also by the hypothesis of money flows, of which you have been the instrument. the european competence we need, the european unity we need, also comes from here. putin's war is bringing death and destruction and putin is a dangerous executioner who hits the innocent and represses internal dissent: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. our democratic values are at stake and europe is at stake.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking very clearly, but listen to me. as the league we reaffirm our position that we stand firmly with the west on the atlantic axis and in support of the italian draghi government. we condemn the brutal russian aggression and support the suffering ukrainian people, hoping for a speedy peace agreement. i have personally been to taiwan to challenge the chinese communist regime, i have been to washington to strengthen transatlantic relations and i am extremely convinced that only with the unity of the west and the nato front will we europeans be able to respond adequately to the new global threats arising from the russian aggression in ukraine. anyone who wants to question our strategic position for purely domestic political purposes is doing harm not to the league, but to the unity that is required at this difficult time. journalistic indiscretions that want to harm the league continue to raise fake news, to which we have responded legally, also demanding a refund to be returned to the ukrainian people. false and instrumental claims, which are now outdated by facts and history, cannot and must not be used for mere political speculation. we do not accept lessons from those who, like the italian democratic party, are allies of the pro-russian lobbyist schröder, or of the five star movement, friends of beijing and caracas. instead of continuing with instrumental attacks, especially at this difficult time, i would urge all my colleagues to work together more closely, without feeding divisions in italian and european politics.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must choose the europe we want: we must either listen to the people or choose the path of blackmail and arrogance. today's debate, however, confirms that article 7 is being used to split europe: good against bad, liked against unliked. but the founding fathers of the union had in mind a different europe, one that could unite rather than divide. it is impossible to give credit to the caprices of the left, which in hungary has not hesitated and is not embarrassed to accept an alliance with the anti-semitic and anti-roma far right. history has put poland and hungary at the forefront of welcoming refugees fleeing the burning ukraine, while in this house there is room for the chatter and frustrations of those who cannot accept the will of the people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is showing great solidarity at a time when a terrible war is being fought just a few kilometres from our borders. countries traditionally hostile to hosting have opened their doors to ukrainian citizens but continue to keep them closed to the many afghans, iraqis, syrians who are denied their right to asylum and to hosting. we're talking about people who are also fleeing war. aren't all wars the same? aren't all asylum seekers the same? they are people: women, men and children. i refuse to believe that in our union we can make distinctions on the basis of ethnicity, religion or culture and, on this basis, violate the obligation not to reject. let us remember that, before it is a moral duty, the duty to take in refugees is an obligation under international law, under international agreements, under the geneva convention. it is therefore essential that the commission ensures that everyone is given the opportunity to seek asylum in the european union. (the speaker agrees to answer a blue-card question)
answer to a blue-card question. i'll answer that question quickly. i think that those who come to our doors, who knock on our doors and are not even allowed to apply for asylum have a right to do so. so we let him apply for asylum, which is forbidden. and i have seen it with my own eyes because, my dear colleague, i have been both on the border with belarus, i have been in croatia and i come from lampedusa, where i have been for 30 years and have seen everything that is happening, and i can assure you that often people who are entitled to do so are not even allowed to apply for asylum, although i am of course of the opinion that everyone has the right to do so, including those who come in clandestinely. and why are they coming in clandestinely? because we do not allow them to come through the regular channels, through what are the humanitarian corridors, and we do anything but welcome them. we have seen it in belarus and poland, which today, thank god, have opened their doors and we are grateful to them. but we also saw people being turned away with fire hydrants: you mustn't forget that!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy of the ukrainian people must lead us to concentrate on the reception of those fleeing the war. the countries neighbouring ukraine, such as poland and hungary, are behaving in an exemplary manner. the same countries which were considered by the majority here to be unfriendly. well, we at the league are very clear: it's only right to welcome those who flee wars. but there is a certain left that exploits a tragedy to fuel another principle, which is that it is right to welcome anyone, regardless of whether they come from a war or not. consider that in italy, for example, most of the landings come from egypt, bangladesh and tunisia, all countries where there is no war. we must stop with the kind of left-wing goodness that we should let all the economic migrants coming from africa arrive, who then end up staying in italy because they have nowhere else to go. in short, illegal immigration unfortunately only brings social disadvantage, poverty and crime, so it makes no sense for europe to continue to encourage it.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, north korea is the worst dictatorship in the world and it is no accident that it is a communist dictatorship. in december, for the celebrations of the 10th anniversary of kim jong-un's father's death, he was forbidden even to laugh, celebrate his own birthday, speak loudly in public, or be arrested as enemies of the people. kwanliso, political prison camps, which serve to control the population, remain active in north korea, no different from the chinese gulag or laogai. these days, the alliance between china, north korea and russia is growing. why, on the very day of the russian aggression in ukraine, did north korea launch a missile 170 kilometers off the coast of japan? have you not noticed that the communist countries are re-creating a blockade against the western powers? over the years, we've become addicted to their gas, their manufacturing, their raw materials. we have fed them, probably some even thinking that after all, being communists, they were good, because you know that many, even here in europe, have a positive prejudice about communism... "a good idea wrongly applied". no, comrades, communism is a bad ideology and when applied to the letter it becomes lethal!
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again cohesion policy is proving to be the main and immediate instrument to be used to deal with the emergency facing the european union. so it's good that there is this provision, this increase in react-eu pre-financing, that we move towards care+, that there is a concrete and immediate response for people who are suffering, for states that are struggling on the front lines to welcome especially refugees and those who are fleeing from a war, which we are still struggling to understand the meaning of. the member states, where we are still somewhat stuck and somewhat behind, should not waste any more time on partnership agreements and cohesion policy, to avoid obscuring the importance of this policy and giving the impression that the member states are not interested. so an appeal also to the member states and those regions which are still struggling to find partnership agreements.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks later we are again being asked to agree to amendments to introduce more flexibility in the use of european funds for the emergency that member states are experiencing because of the conflict. i will certainly support this request, but i would like us to ask ourselves whether the european budget and its rules are adequate to deal with such emergencies. we are clearly facing a conflict that we were not prepared to face. it is therefore desirable that the european union should have a rapid and efficient system of response, also for future emergencies. we must be able to create a compulsory and automatic system of relocation for refugees, inspired by the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility, and able to come to the aid of the frontline countries. we must immediately provide for measures to integrate refugees into the education and health systems of the member states, but at the same time we must be able to deal effectively with the economic and energy impact on european citizens. we must therefore not waste time, we must work hard to ensure that we are not again unprepared to face the evolution of other conflicts.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard many fine words of goodwill in favour of the integration of roma rights, for which we are providing substantial funding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to remind you today that in a model of civil society that is truly inclusive in the christian sense of the term, rights are also accompanied by duties, which do not exist for roma communities, at least in italy. because, you see, it is a duty, and not just a moral one, to guarantee children the right to education, to teach them to play and not to steal, to take them to a warm bed and not to force them to sell roses in restaurants at night. unless you admit, as we vote on the resolution on the situation of children in ukraine, that in your pure hearts there are children of class a and others of class b, and perhaps even of class d. friends, i think we are filling our mouths with nice words, but the real fact is that the probability of a roma child reaching the second level of secondary school is about 1 in 1000: i repeat, 1 in 1,000, and not because of us. if we really want to help the future of these populations, we must demand concrete changes, first of all in terms of schooling, from the need to census these populations that are absent while we are all registered, in order to restore legality and protect the interests of minors, to start towards appropriate schooling paths. as is often the case in this house, hypocrisy is unfortunately the rule, whereas what we should be aiming at is a fair balance between the legitimate fight against discrimination and the protection of public security and the real rights of children. a real integration based on respect for the law and our values. in the absence of this, we are faced with those who, in defiance and in an unacceptable manner, place themselves above the law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the midst of a very violent war. it is a very difficult time for businesses and households affected by the energy and food crisis. and what is parliament discussing? the situation of marginalised roma communities in the european union. let's just say the european union really focuses on priorities, right? but it's not the first time. during the pandemic, we were asked to vote on a proposal entitled "combating negative attitudes towards people of roma origin in europe". but that's not all. in november 2021, we discussed police brutality against roma. in short, the roma community periodically seems to be the only emergency for europe. but i asked a question, and in response to that question i found out that, under the european social fund 2014-2020, 1.5 billion euros have been allocated, of which more than 108 million in italy alone, to the socioeconomic integration of communities such as the roma. in addition, €1.4 billion from the european regional development fund was allocated for the same period for inclusive growth, including roma communities. i do not think there is any urgency in wasting billions of euros, especially in this context, for those who are very often in the news for their established criminal activities. i also do not think it is right that we should give roma preferential treatment in access to employment and housing. i myself have visited roma camps in italy, where some children are not sent to school, but are unfortunately directed to activities such as theft and looting. everyone here talks about inclusion and fighting against exclusion, when instead every day we find roma communities who, almost with pride, say that they absolutely do not want to integrate. in short, we are facing an unprecedented crisis: pandemics, war, energy shortages, food shortages. a serious europe should concentrate on many other issues. (the speaker agrees to answer a blue card question)
blue card answer. i thank you for speaking about discrimination. that's exactly what i'm talking about. in fact, in this parliament, discrimination against all those who are not roma is perpetuated, and that is what we are talking about. because to give preferential treatment in terms of housing or other benefits to one community over another, especially in a context of war, is to discriminate against people who are really suffering at the moment. (the speaker agrees to answer a blue card question)
answer to a blue-card question. the only one who should apologize is you. go to poland and hungary and see what the children are like there, fleeing from the war. and then we talk about who really needs it. obviously, there's someone who doesn't want to play by the rules. maybe you didn't notice that? i go to the roma camps, i go there, and unfortunately too many times i see children who do not go to school and are forced to carry out criminal activities. however, for your information, i am a woman, a mother of two, a christian, and i will always be proud to reaffirm here in this parliament the position for which i was elected by the italian people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of the roma community is very complex and we have not yet been able to overcome a fundamentally discriminatory attitude and a drive to marginalize them. this is what gives rise to ghettos, which are the opposite of what we need. the process of marginalisation must not be encouraged or condoned: the european parliament has a duty to make a decision on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. let's start with the children and the boys, i say. their academic success is the big change we need. it is a complex issue, let us discuss, let us discuss with the commission how to make the measures that are being put in place more effective. one thing for the league, though. don 't tell us about the effects of war . you were putin's friends and nobody here takes lessons from you about the consequences of war!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of prejudice against the roma in europe. the first and most discriminatory is that, according to the left, they cannot behave like other citizens who work, pay taxes, send their children to school and pay rent. i was mayor, and for years, the left-wing administrations before me had maintained a roma camp in terrible sanitary conditions, among rats and dirt. and this is happening in many other municipalities, because the left has the prejudice that tearing down the roma camps is racist. i'm not! how can anyone think that in order to respect the population, one must turn a blind eye to abuse, child abuse, hygiene and sanitation? to truly integrate the roma, they must be treated as equal to all other ethnic groups, and therefore, where there is abuse, the legal loopholes must be activated. the same crackdown that matteo salvini, as minister of the interior, set in motion in rome to tear down the mega villas of the casamonica, a mafia clan of roma families who had built abusive villas thanks to the proceeds of organized crime. that 's the challenge . the integration of the two. integrated roma citizens living by the law are not loud. they probably don't need special laws or discussions like this to feel included. but the noise is made by those communities who, in order to have the excuse of continuing to live in the illegality of the camps, demand ad hoc laws and special recognitions and millions and millions, and billions, as we have heard, of funding from the european union. equal rights and duties for all: this is the real challenge to integration that we must bring to europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a blue card question)
answer to a blue-card question. thanks to my colleague, who will surely get a good complaint and with this money we will pay maybe some italian who, unfortunately, can not access the public housing because in italy, unfortunately, the public housing is given first to the roma, in many cases, which skip the lists. let me tell you a story. maybe there's no time and i hope i get another blue card, because when i was seven, they took me to visit a roma camp. twenty years later, as mayor, i cleared out that roma camp, where children were in the dirt and among the rats, and i'm proud of it!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we remember sir plumb, knowing that organic is the only way to protect the environment, food safety and greater independence from non-eu producers, and to prevent the damage caused by unhealthy products to the health of citizens. we must therefore be ambitious, demanding targets such as a minimum of 25% organic production and a genuine ban on harmful pesticides. italy is already at 20% of organic, sicily at 22%. so it is possible. so we reward the producers, we give more money to farmers in sicily, sardinia, italy or any other region in europe who are really virtuous, who are really organic. stop helping people who don't deserve it. after years of pandemics and war, we are experiencing firsthand the cost of being dependent on other producing countries, from which we often import poor quality products that lower the price of our excellences. it is a broken system and it is up to us to change it to make it work for a happy future for us and our children. it takes courage and free hands. do we have them, ladies and gentlemen?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner wojciechowski, the organic action plan can be an important instrument for reconciling environmental objectives and european agricultural sovereignty, which are more important than ever today. but to set a target of 25 percent of organically farmed land by 2030, when some states are not even getting to 5 percent, means two things: either it is an excuse to create a biological watering hole that will fuel environmental distortion and dumping, or it is proposing something that is doomed to fail from the start. in my country, italy, millions of farmers have already invested considerable resources in organic production and they certainly do not want to compete with new organic products, the result of a soft or trivial european policy. the market for organic products must certainly be extended, but without putting it in competition with products with designations of origin, which are the excellence that must be protected and not abolished. there are no shortcuts, therefore, such as the exclusive distribution of organic products in public canteens, or the transfer of european funds intended instead for the promotion of agri-food products, or the total absence of controls on organic products coming from third countries. so we want a real organic, environmentally friendly system which pays farmers a fair wage and a fair profit.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank you all for your work. this work has touched on issues of great impact on the lives of citizens, from transportation to healthcare to agriculture to the use of artificial intelligence in the military sector. the aim was to analyse the various perspectives in order to provide the basis for future union legislation in this area. i do not know whether we have succeeded, given the high rate of innovation in this sector, we are faced with many opportunities, but also with many risks. we see so many improvements in the well-being and lives of citizens, but also enormous risks to personal freedoms and the risk of error, with catastrophic social consequences: i'm thinking about that real estate platform that, because of an algorithm error, bought homes at a price above market value, suffered financial losses and was forced to lay off 25 percent of its employees. during the discussions our group tabled amendments aimed at minimising these risks, which unfortunately were not shared by all. it is vital for our citizens that there be as little risk as possible. in the medical field, we have to be very careful because here too we have algorithms that only target white patients and artificial intelligence must be free of any kind of bias. and especially in the military, we think it's critical that ai doesn't take over human decision-making. it is essential that freedom of speech and expression is not put at risk by systems that use artificial intelligence, forcing us to use so-called "algospeak", a code language to bypass algorithms and online censorship. we are not opposed to progress, we are not thinking of a luddite uprising. we don't want to destroy machines, we simply want a future of this technology that is driven by ethics and a desire to protect our citizens.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, may god bless you, your family and hungary. this is what pope francis said to viktor orbán at the end of their meeting, after presenting him with a bronze medallion depicting saint martin, the patron saint of the poor. this beautiful and meaningful meeting was a real blow to the european left, which for years has been trying to attack hungary and poland by the most subtle means, simply because these countries have centre-right governments. the announcement of the start of the rule of law infringement procedure comes just after viktor orbán's victory in the recent elections. this harassment of fully legitimate governments is absurd and harmful at this time. i would remind you that in these tragic days poland has taken in three million refugees and hungary half a million. that is why europe should show its solidarity and not threaten useless sanctions. we have heard many legitimate concerns about the rule of law in these two member countries, but we are underestimating a much more serious danger: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the principle of subsidiarity on which the union is founded is respected. does the polish judicial reform violate the spirit of the treaties, undermining the principle of the separation of powers? that's the question we've been asking ourselves for the last few months and years, but i would like to invite everyone to think about something else: how far does the european union have the power to interfere in the reforms of the judiciary of a member state? it is also quite ridiculous that members of parliament from certain countries where the judges are almost entirely on the left should dare to judge poland or hungary. the same goes for the media, certainly in hungary and poland there are more pro-government media than anti-government media, but is it different in france or italy? i'm not going to. the gay rights discourse is also full of fake news. it is not true that civil unions are not recognized in hungary. they are, but they are not in many other countries of the european union which, strangely enough, are not in the sights of brussels, obviously for other reasons, perhaps political ones. if there is one distinctive feature of our european civilization which has enabled the affirmation of human rights, prosperity and development which have been unparalleled for centuries, it is thanks to pluralism. the peaceful and creative competition between nations with different languages, traditions and even legal systems has made europe great. where centralism is sought, however, division and conflict are created. prime minister orbán was elected for the fourth time in a completely fair election. those who deny this and claim that orbán is an unshakable dictator at the head of a para-fascist party should explain why orbán has long been a valued leader within the epp. in the lead european media, a letter from a famous british opinion writer was published immediately after orbán's victory, explaining how it was necessary to cut all european funds to hungary because the hungarian government uses the funds to help families and thus gains popularity. this is crazy. a government that uses funds to help families instead of being praised is criticized to the point of demanding punishment. the european union must stop fighting the legitimate governments of the member states politically and instead focus on how to defend our europe from the enemies that threaten it, those who have always been at our doorstep ready to attack and whom you have always pretended not to see until they entered our house.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have reached the end of this experiment. i don't know what else to call it. an experiment that had the ambition to bring the institutions to the citizens, but it has done nothing but bring the citizens, or rather a remarkable minority of citizens, who we do not know how well chosen, into the vortex of the institutions. an experiment which from the outset gave the impression of not looking so much at the result, but at doing, a compulsive, disorganized doing and above all without clear goals and objectives. the result, of course, could not have been anything other than what is now before everyone's eyes. the mountain gave birth to a mouse. a little mouse made up of recommendations, which are largely acceptable, but which are also largely the subject of political discussions and have therefore not brought any major changes. a mouse who also made straightforward recommendations such as those on the transnational lists. if we think that the european citizens consider them a priority, perhaps it would be better to step out of the comfort zone of the palace for a moment and go and talk to real people who have other problems and other concerns at the moment. let's face it, it was an experiment that completely missed its purpose, unless its purpose was to give a semblance of popular legitimacy to positions that are very deeply rooted within the palace. but only here. of course, we will never know exactly how much this experiment cost, but we hope that the lesson is that politics can regain its rightful primacy in decision-making without shame, while actively and concretely involving all citizens, including and especially the most critical, who had no voice in this initiative, all the more reason to consider this experiment a failure. that's too bad. we all believed it, but we have, you have missed another opportunity to really bring the european citizens closer to these institutions.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president schinas, the issue of the european union's preparedness against cyberattacks following the russian invasion of ukraine is mainly influenced by the different level and degree of preparedness of the member states. strong member states make a strong union, but this is true in all fields, in all sectors and in all domains. the current italian government has also increased its capacity, starting the national cyber security agency, unifying all activities to protect against cyber threats, thus contributing to the security of the european union. cybersecurity ensures national defence, the defence of the european union, socioeconomic stability, the democratic order of states, the cohesion of society, the fact that citizens can rely on reliable information and remain psychologically intact, that is, they do not lose confidence in the leadership of their countries. moreover, european citizens must have access to vital services and be protected from espionage and disinformation. in the hybrid war that is consuming ukraine we have evidence of the deadly attacks of the russian federation. it is our duty to help the ukrainian people and organizations to protect themselves. it is our duty to extend this protective and capacity-building umbrella to all those who are related to us and to continue deepening the nato exercises. that is why i am calling for an end to the disinformation which is plaguing the european union, which we have perhaps all too often forgotten.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the actions and preparations for the russian cyberattacks began a year before the invasion of ukraine, confirming that the conflict had been planned well in advance. it is now clear that there is a synergistic activity of russian cyber warfare activities, designed to destabilize some sensitive and strategic infrastructure of a territory that russia intended to hit. expansion of cyber attacks to the west, outside the ukrainian borders, is one of the possible scenarios for the development of the conflict, and knowing that these actions have been prepared by moscow again in advance, it is obviously necessary not to be unprepared. it is not appropriate to wait for further tensions with russia to develop a plan to respond and contain these attacks. instead, we must immediately identify a strategy to maximize our defenses. we also need to have a vision of perspective, a vision that fights cyber warfare, that will not end with the end of the conflict in ukraine, but will probably be exacerbated. we need greater cooperation not only between the european states of the west as a whole, of course, but also a strengthening of cooperation with our historic allies, the united states, but also the united kingdom and international organizations such as nato. only with the unity of the west can we face these hybrid threats and defend ourselves and above all defend our sensitive and strategic infrastructure, because when we talk about cybersecurity we are not just talking about cybersecurity in the strict sense, but about real national security.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! russia has been waging a war in cyberspace against the european union for many years. the aggression against ukraine was preceded by hacking attacks on public institutions, public officials and critical infrastructure in many member states, including poland. building resilience to the conflict that is happening online is a fundamental issue for our security. the potential of advanced technologies, including artificial intelligence, can be used to this end. we have european companies that can provide the right cybersecurity tools in both military and civilian contexts. but we have to create the right conditions for them to thrive. the ai act, which we're working on, is a great opportunity to do that and to make it easier to do research and invest in cybersecurity measures.
a uachtaráin, cyber-attacks from russia did not start on 24 february, nor will they end when the war ends in ukraine. europe must be prepared for the war to expand online, with critical infrastructure at risk. as technology advances and becomes further intertwined into our economies and infrastructure, we must be aware that cyber-threats are also rapidly evolving in nature and sophistication. the eu and all member states need a digital security architecture to defend us robustly against cyber-attacks. ireland is a neutral country. yet in may 2021, our health-care systems suffered the biggest cyber-attack in the history of the state. this affected most of the country’s health services, including coronavirus testing, maternal care services, cancer care, covid-19 tracking and routine referrals for secondary care at a time when the whole system was under pressure. this, it appears, was at the hands of russian hackers and criminals. this has led to a shift in thinking in ireland, as we’ve seen that neutrality per se doesn’t mean that you’re exempt from russian attacks. we have to take our defence much more seriously, within the confines of neutrality. cyber-defence should be a priority, which means investment. that is what we must do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in this unprecedented, complex and difficult time, we have learned that there are many things that we can classify as war, from the missiles that are hitting leopoli in these minutes, and i would like from this house to express solidarity with the mayor, with the people who are being hit precisely in these minutes, as we are discussing this. to the old propaganda tools, to the disinformation, to the muddy boots of infantry invasions, which we have rediscovered to exist in these months, to the threats we are discussing tonight that run along the fibres of the world, the so-called hybrid war. we have come to know it in recent months, and despite the fact that the nature of this conflict is complex and complex, the responses of our institutions must be united and strong, from the increasingly structural alliance between the member states to the new instruments of defence against the unjustified and brutal aggression of putin. and on that we shall find ourselves once more ready.
mr president, russia’s military and hybrid aggression against ukraine only confirms the global nature and importance of cybersecurity. russia’s direct and indirect attacks against ukraine have also increased the impact of the ongoing ‘cold hybrid war’ on the west. deterring cyber threats emanating from russia and its allies, such as belarus – don’t forget that – requires immediate attention to strengthening the eu’s cyber resilience. we need to reassess existing threats and take the necessary decisions to protect our critical infrastructure and, more importantly, our people. we need to understand that cyber threats are here to stay and can have serious consequences if not properly addressed. we must pay particular attention to protecting our information space and our people from russian trolls and attempts to interfere in our democratic processes by manipulating public opinion. with russia waging a brutal war against democracy and freedom in ukraine, we no longer have the luxury of talking about action. now it’s time to act and ensure the eu’s and our partners’ cybersecurity.
mr president, we are all aware that wars are not limited to traditional types of warfare. the russian invasion on ukraine is just an evident example. the kremlin started testing its tactics in ukraine many years ago, targeting even a power grid. disinformation examples are well—known, and particularly russia disseminated 70% of all disinformation and fake news lately. russian state—sponsored hackers and cybercriminals are still increasing their presence. they are very keen to target critical infrastructure. those are basically the same actors, with the same intentions, that launched cyberattacks during the covid pandemic, on hospitals or our medicines agency. that’s why it is of utmost importance to be prepared. these attacks may have unimaginable repercussions and our unity is a prerequisite for safety. therefore, eu cybersecurity needs to be shown in practice. we absolutely have to support our agency for cybersecurity to strengthen the capacities of our member states. with enough efforts and enough resources. otherwise, we risk too much.
mr. president, in 2022, with war at the border, we're wondering if we're prepared for cyberattacks. and while the pandemic has shown us exactly how vulnerable we are, it has cost us a lot that we didn't already have a health union, that we didn't digitize enough, that we didn't digitize fully. digitalization means opening up the state to people, it means transparency, it means speed, it means bureaucratization, it means less corruption, if we digitize properly, not just to check some indicators. after two years of online, national and european institutions are still asking for a rail file. are we prepared for russian attacks? certainly not. but why? we talk about it a dozen times before we make a decision. we've been sitting on the drawer for years with proposals. we negotiate for the interests of a party or a group, not for all europeans. we listen to the office types, not the professionals in the field. that's why we're not ready. we won't be until we change something, the way we work, and the citizens will tell us to vote until we understand.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr putin's terrible war carries with it a burden of violence and death that is before our eyes every day. but we are facing - and it is good to be fully aware of this - a multidimensional war that is also being played out in less visible fields, thus also taking the form of a computer, hybrid, cyber war. in this area, we have indeed seen foreign attempts to influence the democratic processes of the european union for several years. and we need to open our eyes more. a huge investment is needed to rapidly build up strategic capacity and expertise in this area, with a particular focus on critical infrastructure. this must be an integral part of a common security and defence project and a counter-offensive - as mr schieder rightly said - to support free voices in russia. we must also support those in russia who oppose putin's terrible war.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first the pandemic, now the war in ukraine, the transport and tourism sectors are once again in a state of severe distress and with the increase in energy costs reflected in the increase in ticket prices, even travelling is becoming impossible for many families. the galloping inflation in transport and tourism risks creating new forms of poverty and loneliness which we must prevent. we therefore reiterate our request to the european commission to set up an ad hoc tourism fund to support tourism businesses which employ millions of people across europe. i would also like to make another appeal: the right sanctions that hit belarus for its involvement in the war in ukraine had a boomerang effect. thousands of belarusian children in rehabilitation cannot reach italy and other european countries. we must intervene by allowing humanitarian flights and by protecting all children who wish to be reunited with their families in europe. let's open our eyes to the rubble that this war is causing.
mr. chairman, the war in ukraine, triggered by russian aggression, has created a state of emergency in all sectors. transport and tourism are certainly such sectors. fuel prices are at record highs, there is already a shortage of raw materials, and all of this is affecting transport links and transport relations. in this sense, the situation in ukraine today is particularly worrying, with its sea and river ports blocked and this hindering the country's exports and trade. however, some colleagues in this chamber are doing everything they can to disrupt the transport industry by continually introducing new and new regulations and restrictions, as they did with the 'mobility' package. i want to draw attention to another serious problem. it is clear that both the russian and the ukrainian markets will remain closed for the foreseeable future. i therefore call on the european commission to take steps to ensure not only the supply of gas at european level, but also the supply of raw materials to all sectors of the european union. particular attention should be paid to the industrial production sector, the provision of sufficient cheap steel for the construction sector and, of course, access to cheap fuels. in conclusion, we must make sure that this mad war ends an hour sooner and ensure maximum stability to these sectors of our societies.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i think something has to change. if we want more people to join in watching debates from the european parliament at home and if we want more people to believe in and believe in the european union, we must remember that in times of crisis, we will - and i quote - we will express concern, we will watch with alarm and we will condemn sharply. what we need to do in a crisis is to be closer to people than at any other time. let me give you an example. for 70 days now, the ports of ukraine have been blocked, dozens of ships cannot leave these ports. among them is the bulgarian "rosen", which is blocked at the port in chernomyrsk. some of the sailors have been evacuated, others are on board the ships and surviving with what's left in the holds. as more time passes, more mines are being dumped in the waters around the harbor, making it almost impossible to get the ships out. and if you ask me what we should do, i'll tell you. immediately, a delegation from the european institutions with an action plan in hand left for ukraine and returned on the last ship flying the european flag there. and then, ladies and gentlemen, from the television sets, the european union will move into the hearts of the people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the russian invasion of ukraine has devastated the lives of millions of people who deserve our support and our deep solidarity, but the consequences of this war are also being felt in europe, particularly in sectors such as transport and tourism, which have already been significantly affected by two years of the pandemic. we are approaching the summer season with an indiscriminate increase in fuel prices, high energy prices and inflation reducing the economic availability of european citizens. travel and vacationing will be difficult for many families again this year. it will therefore be important to adopt the instruments highlighted in this resolution, starting with the european crisis management mechanism and short-term financial support. europe must be there for its citizens, for the micro and small enterprises that populate the tourist sector and for those territories which, because of their proximity to the war theatre or because of the historical predominance of russian and ukrainian tourists, will be most affected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to providing concrete assistance to ukraine in defending itself against the aggressor, we must take clear measures to protect the european economy from the adverse effects of the war. we have already started in energy and some other sectors, but tourism as a sector is also directly affected, as tourism activities are not essential for life, and the decline in consumption is most rapidly felt in the tourism sector in the crisis. i come from croatia, a country where tourism is an extremely important part of the economy and has a significant share of gdp. i think it is important that, in addition to national governments, the european commission actively encourages citizens to holiday in the member states of the union and helps to provide additional transport routes for tourists from the rest of the world to come to europe. the world is slowly entering recession, war is adding to the uncertainty, and we cannot allow the tourism sector to deal with this alone.
mr president, commissioner, the war in ukraine is having a devastating effect on our economy, including on the transport and tourism sectors. the european union will not be the same after this war, whose consequences add to the ravages of the pandemic. we see supply shortages, disruptions in the logistics sector and high energy prices. the automobile industry, for example, is suffering from a shortage of electronic components and many of these companies have stopped their activity. europe needs a competitive industry and not just a service provider. the transport sector is essential to this. we must look back and find ways of maintaining european competitiveness. we must embrace digitalisation to optimise the logistics chain in air, sea and land transport. we must be aware of the situation, of the challenges we face and of the threats that exist, and rethink how we want to deal with them in order to maintain a europe that is peaceful, prosperous and competitive. to maintain the logistics chain, the transport sector is key. tourism is also about protecting and promoting our values and our way of life.
mr president, among the devastating effects of russia’s criminal aggression against ukraine, there are those on tourism – which accounts for 10% of gdp in europe – a sector which has already suffered a lot during the pandemic. we are facing naturally a loss of russian and ukrainian tourists all over europe, and the costs of energy, foodstuff and fuel are growing fast. an explosive mix. we ask for financial assistance for big and small touristic companies within the internal market programme, together with a full crisis management action plan. putin has invaded a peaceful country in mainland europe. this is crystal clear. we have to do our part and support the ukrainian people in the right to choose their own destiny. why should a country surrender to the arrogance of a despotic leader? why should a country submit to the invaders’ will? putin will respond for his crimes in front of the history, but for now, we have to work for peace. and we have to relieve the most damaging humanitarian, economic and social effects of war, united as ever.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being here, commissioner, the consequences, if there are any, for the social and productive fabric of the countries of the european union, but of course there is also the positive element of the fact that we are all united in supporting the sanctions, including the new package, which is a just instrument and is bringing results, of course it is also bringing consequences and costs to our system, to our business model, but we must go on because it is one of the most important strategies. the unity we have shown here is a value, but it should not prevent us from also analysing the situation that is being created, an analysis also of the mistakes we have made in the past, of why we have come to this dependence on russia, of why until a few weeks before the outbreak of the war, someone in this house continued to defend projects such as nord stream 2 and eastmed, but nothing was said. project eastmed that we may be able to relaunch soon, but it's going to take a long time to become active. we have some elements that have come up in the last few weeks: the problem of storing energy resources for the coming winter; the question of whether to pay in rubles or in euros, on which companies need clarification. it would therefore be important for the european commission to clarify this aspect too, which is creating tensions, tensions which are also on the markets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the agri-food sector is already suffering the consequences and the labour and our social fabric is likely to pay a heavy price. then perhaps we will not have to deal with the consequences ourselves, but our colleagues at national and regional level. but that will be a very important element because - i add what has also been said by other colleagues - we must not make the mistake of going back to the stability pact and the wrong rules that have made europe the continent with the lowest growth rate in the last 20 years and adding costs to businesses with the 'fit for 55' programme. the costs of rules designed for pre-pandemic europe, let alone for a europe like today that is experiencing a dramatic war on its doorstep. thank you, and we hope we can make some corrections.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, by examining the discharges of the european institutions we ensure that public money is spent properly. i have been fighting a battle since the beginning of this parliament's term over the housing policy of parliament and the commission, which frankly seems to be out of date and out of step with the times. but i would like to point out one thing: between covid and the russian-ukrainian conflict, europeans are experiencing the biggest economic and social crisis since the post-war period, with energy prices skyrocketing and the cost of living doubling. the european commission has given us advice on this, urging us to reduce heating and travel at reduced speed on motorways and to prefer public transport to our cars. anything that's legit is gonna be missed. but this is in conflict with the reality that we are all here in strasbourg again, members and staff who have come here by plane, by car from all over europe. the usual caravan that moves in droves to strasbourg every month, while european citizens are asked to make efforts to reduce their dependence on russian gas. the relocation of plenary sessions to brussels during covid has shown that with a single venue it is possible to reduce pollution and costs.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the chairman and all the members of the committee on budgetary control for the work that has been done. the verification of the conditions for deciding whether or not to grant discharge is a demanding task and not just a check of manners. the debates within the cont committee have highlighted the criticisms, problems and errors, but also the good practices that are being adopted in the european agencies. this complex work is of the utmost importance for the transparency of our institutions and is therefore necessary to increase the confidence of the citizens. it is therefore important to know the final beneficiaries of european funds in order to carry out all the checks. only by highlighting what is not working and indicating what action needs to be taken can action be taken to improve and prevent further problems. it is not by hiding the dust under the carpet that we provide a better picture of the european institutions, but by highlighting the criticisms and working to solve them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the pegasus spyware incident is first and foremost a matter of credibility for europe, for its values and its rights, the ones we want to defend, and therefore the rights and values of european democracy and also of its governments. let's face it, the people who should have been looking after the privacy and data integrity of their citizens clearly didn't. committees of inquiry have also been set up by some national governments, but they have not come to any conclusions. and let's face it, it's even worse than our colleagues in here, and so their families have been treated the same way. this is an attack on european democracy. the pegasus spyware can't be hijacked by accident on the way. for all these reasons, i sincerely wish the european parliament's pegasus committee of inquiry a very successful outcome. we do not have democracy and we will not have it without respect for our values, which have unfortunately been violated.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, technology today enables us to do wonderful things. the development of artificial intelligence then led mankind to unprecedented discoveries. sharing is now a core concept of any experience, real or virtual. unfortunately, sometimes technology allows for silent sharing by gathering information. pegasus is an algorithm developed in israel that can collect information from mps, journalists or citizens from any device connected to the internet. many computer scientists have called pegasus a "jewel of computing" with unprecedented discretionary autonomy. photos, e-mails, everything on the phone is targets that pegasus uses for social, military and political purposes. pegasus, like any other more advanced spyware, is a serious threat to the rule of law. as the spanish colleagues have said, when a government is threatened in its constitutional integrity, it has the right to defend itself against these threats. spying is what we were taught in school not to do, yet knowing in advance of a potential threat is the best survival strategy possible. pegasus could become the vile deformation of a technology useful to a few and living off our daily lives. i must say that this excess has provoked, albeit in a different way, the social realities of the world. i am not sure that this is the case. the work of the pega committee will be very complicated. the freedoms of 500 million europeans, their governments and the challenges of the future between search algorithms and ultra-artificial intelligence are on the table. but now it is time to ask ourselves the essential questions: how much is our freedom worth?
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here for the umpteenth time to discuss the human rights violations in turkey. free voices, as in the case of osman kavala, are silenced. in the country of sultan erdogan we see the systematic imprisonment of those who defend freedom and those who dare to criticize the government. turkey is persecuting christians and other religious minorities and is constantly violating its international obligations as a member of the council of europe. in recent times women's rights have also seen a worrying tightening, with associations dissolved because they are contrary to religious morality. turkey must make concrete progress on respect for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights and it must do so immediately. we are here for the umpteenth time to say that turkey is not europe. turkey cannot be part of the european union and all accession negotiations must be stopped. we call on the commission and the council to put an end to all the funding to the turkish government which over the years, especially with the migration pact, has been seen in all its effects as a shameful blackmail against us.
, on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in communist china there are numerous reports of the horrendous practice of organ harvesting from prisoners belonging to religious groups, political opponents, ethnic and linguistic minorities. this entrenched system has been a reality for decades now, it is a crime against humanity, but unfortunately the chinese regime is not interested in respecting human rights. the government holds as many as two million uighurs and other minority groups in a system of internment camps where detainees are forced to work, tortured and often killed. christians have faced persecution and discrimination for decades now, including the closing of churches, the arrest of priests, and the banning of bibles. in this context europe is often guilty of silence. it prefers to make trade agreements with china without raising the issue of human rights, freedom and democracy. unfortunately, i see the european institutions as being too subservient to the chinese regime. we need strong action, pressure action and a blockade on imports of any goods made with forced labour. we cannot continue to turn a blind eye to these atrocities. i therefore call on the european union to regain some dignity, to put its fists on the table with china and finally to assert human rights.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to sincerely thank my colleagues, first of all the members of the imco committee, those who have been rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs, but all the members for the work we have done in this examination of this report. it was a very fruitful and practical work, especially without instrumentation, which allowed us to get closer even from somewhat distant positions. and that allowed us to have a near unanimous vote as well. it would therefore be a real pity if, as has happened in other circumstances, the committee on economic and monetary affairs did not take due account of the suggestions we have put forward. i would like to thank mr schwab and all the members of the econ committee for having taken our suggestions into account. it's an important starting point. there's a lot of things to cover. new challenges for you. the commission has had the capacity to deal with the pandemic with derogations, with exceptions. it will be able to do the same in dealing with the conflict in ukraine, maintaining the important points of reference but knowing how to derogate.
mr president, this competition report is an opportunity for some kind of democratic scrutiny of eu action in the competition area. it is essential, however, that the report retains a strong focus on the direct impact eu competition policy has on eu citizens. coming from a small island, which is also a member state of the union, i believe that state-aid rules should allow margins for proper transport connectivity among the bloc’s insular, peripheral and remote regions. for them, the medium-term future is becoming bleak. the transport connections between these regions and major european transportation hubs remain brittle and subject to disruption. this creates for their citizens and businesses a permanent economic and social disadvantage. investment attractiveness remains below par. tourism, a major income earner, becomes more difficult in shoulder and low seasons. general state-aid rules in this context make limited sense. rather, air and shipping lines serving these regions need to be incentivised – subsidised if you want, so that constant and reliable transport connections are ensured. for this reason, i would like to request that colleagues support the amendment to this resolution that makes this point. the citizens of insular, peripheral and remote regions need to feel they are not a forgotten part of europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we want to reduce our emissions by 55% by 2030. we even want to be climate neutral by 2030. but this will only work if we involve and support the many small and mediumsized enterprises, the smes, in this process. smes are the backbone of our economy. without it, nothing in europe works, not even the energy transition. if these companies want to invest in climate-friendly energy and energy efficiency, we need to give them much stronger government support, as well as the products and goods they produce. without state aid, this transition, this epochal transformation, will not work. we must also support those companies which are suffering most from the current high energy prices. i therefore welcome the fact that the commission has accepted the criticism, including that from parliament, and has revised its original draft guidelines on state aid for climate, environmental protection and energy. more companies in more sectors, which are suffering greatly from the current high energy costs, can be relieved in the future. that's good and right. but, mrs vestager, perhaps your list is still too narrow. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we need - and you said it in your speech - flexible action. climate action must remain affordable for everyone and be an opportunity, not a burden, for smes. it's not gonna work otherwise. every company that succeeds in this transformation is good for the climate and creates jobs in our towns and cities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the oecd is telling us that we will lose one and a half points of economic growth in europe, one third of what is expected, because of the explosion in energy prices, inflation and the sanctions that have rightly been imposed on russia. small and mediumsized enterprises will suffer particularly, but they provide 90 million jobs in the union. i am referring to the ceramic district of my region, emilia romagna, and its importance for social cohesion and the labour market. the flexibility shown by the commission on state aid during the pandemic and the decision to extend first the temporary framework for the health emergency and then the crisis framework were indispensable, enabling the implementation of extraordinary national measures such as liquidity support, access to finance, public guarantees, soft loans. we must continue, the commission must continue to listen to parliament to show that europe is here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the concerns of the moldovan people have been very high since the conflict in ukraine broke out. moldova borders ukraine and has for years been facing a very complicated situation with transnistria, a self-declared independent territory, but in fact under russian influence. in transnistria there are not only arms depots, but also power stations that supply moldova with energy and the presence of 2 000 russian soldiers, plus 6 000 transnistrian troops. moldova is 100% dependent on russian gas and for them a power cut from moscow would mean economic catastrophe. i have had the opportunity to speak to people during the recent visit of the foreign affairs committee to moldova, where i was a member. and the average salary there is 120 euros, gasoline has already reached 1.40 euros per litre. the country has a still strongly rural economy and the rising prices of agricultural diesel, fertilisers and seeds are likely to seriously affect the entire economy. despite widespread poverty, moldova has shown great generosity. this small country has hosted the largest number of war refugees in relation to its population. moldova is not a member of the european union, but it is part of european culture. it shares our values and is bound to us by the association agreement. it is an increasingly important partner for italy, with a trade turnover in 2021 reaching 520 million euros out of a moldovan gdp of 12 billion. the courage shown by a young woman president, maia sandu, and a government led by another very enterprising young woman, natalia gavrilița, should be supported. in the total absence of female figures at the negotiating tables between russia and ukraine, the strength of women in the governments on the border of the war is an element that should not be ignored. let us learn from their courage and not ignore the very worrying signals coming from that border.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, five million refugees from ukraine are heading for the european union, and 90 per cent of them are women and children. people fleeing war, in need of health care, work, education for children, shelter and protection. today ukrainian women expect real support from this parliament without resorting to ideological rhetoric. unfortunately, in the text, a fundamental word such as motherhood, a sign of life and hope, is mentioned only once in this resolution. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. all vulnerable people must be protected. let us be clear: although this text contains positive elements, it risks exploiting the situation for ideological purposes and to once again beat those countries that do not bow to the mainstream in brussels. on the contrary, we should be grateful to all the countries that are helping, including those on the border, for the immense work of welcoming and protecting women and children. the refugee women are particularly at risk, i am thinking of trafficking and the prostitution market, of which ukraine was already a target, i am thinking of abuse, violence and among the hidden violence in ukraine, let us not forget the rented uterus. surrogate mothers, exploited women who are pressured not to seek refuge in the european union because they risk legal problems in the delivery of the creatures they carry in their wombs. our amendments condemn surrogacy and call for humanitarian corridors to evacuate surrogate mothers and children, orphans and the disabled who are still in ukraine. we are asking for more protection for minors, checking who is accompanying them on arrival. we must do everything we can to prevent them from becoming victims of trafficking. colleagues, refugee women are crucial. we do not give in to ideological exploitation. let us work together so that every woman and girl can be restored to their dignity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be very brief. we have lodged an objection. we approved this instrument in this house a year ago because it was a regulatory harmonization instrument that would make it possible to facilitate the movement of our citizens between member states in an exceptional way, and because it would be removed once the pandemic was over. today, in this chamber, we are all fortunately back to normal. we vote in person, we are without masks, we have not shown any certificate, so we believe that the start of negotiations and the extension of this instrument until 2023 is really a violation of some of the fundamental rights of our citizens. we therefore ask that you speak out against it.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the parliament, i thank you for all the remarks. the eu will continue to reiterate its call for a thorough and independent investigation that clarifies all the circumstances of this murder. there must be accountability for her killing. the eu and its member states have more generally recently noted that the eu is concerned about the increasingly high number of casualties, including women and children, and recalls that the use of force must be proportionate and in line with international law, and only as a last resort when it is strictly unavoidable in order to protect human life. the latest developments in israel and the occupied palestinian territory over the last few weeks and months highlight the dire need for renewed engagement between the parties to renew confidence and to restore a political horizon and open the path towards the relaunch of the peace process as soon as possible. the eu has condemned terrorist attacks against israeli civilians. we have condemned the new settlement announcements and possible forced transfers. the eu urges both parties to demonstrate their stated commitment to a two—state solution and to avoid unilateral actions which threaten it.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr terry reintke, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the commission report on the rule of law 2021 (a9-0139/2022) (2021/2180 (ini)).
rapporteur. – mr president, dear colleagues, some of us, including me, have grown up believing that the global trend towards democracy and freedom only knew one direction – emancipating citizens from authoritarian regimes, strengthening the rights of all people in our societies, making europe and the whole world a fairer, a more equal and a more democratic place. i must admit, colleagues, that i do not believe that any more, and we do not have to look as far as moscow to see attempts to undermine rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights, because the rule of law crisis is also happening within our union – a union built on values, not just economic cooperation, a union built on a promise to all its citizens to safeguard their rights and freedoms. but we are not helpless to these attacks on our values – quite the opposite. in the last years, with the clear leadership of this parliament and many colleagues before me from different political groups and member states, we have managed to expand the instruments for monitoring, for preventing and sanctioning attacks on the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. one of those instruments is indeed the rule of law report of the european commission, and the european parliament welcomed the introduction of the rule of law report as a tool to firstly create a common basis, an overview of the situation of rule of law in the member states. we are happy about the commitment and the energy that a lot of people in the commission have actually put into making it a reality, and before i come to the very much needed criticism, i would like to give some credit to those people in the commission who have actually put effort into writing and preparing the reports. but it is also clear that a lot still needs to be done to improve the impact of the rule of law report of the european commission. first of all, so far the report has mostly been an exercise of description – no doubt an important part, but regarding the urgency of the situation also in the european union, we need to go beyond that. we want the next report not only to include recommendations, but to suggest very concrete follow—up in cases of non—compliance including, for example, infringement procedures, the rule of law conditionality and article 7 proceedings. this would not only strengthen the report itself, but would also make the reasoning of the commission behind how they are planning to defend the rule of law more transparent and comprehensible, not only to this parliament, but also to the citizens in the european union. secondly, regarding the scope, parliament has always called for a more holistic approach in the assessment. the fact that an illegitimate constitutional tribunal is restricting the reproductive rights of women shows how closely the independence of the judiciary and fundamental rights are interlinked, and this should also be reflected in this report. thirdly, we want this report to be prepared in an inclusive and transparent way, because civil society organisations, academics and activists, are not ‘nice to have’ input givers, but an absolutely vital part to get full insight into what is happening on the ground. that is why we want ngos to be able to give input, to make the process of writing and preparing this report more foreseeable – and yes, to create a panel of independent experts to give a much—needed outside view into the preparing of this report. lastly, let me say this, colleagues. i have learned that rights we have taken for granted can be taken away from us again. i went into politics not only to leave a habitable planet to future generations, but also to make sure that our daughters and granddaughters do not have less rights than we have, but actually more – to enjoy more freedom, equality and more diversity in their lives. the same is true for all of society. i want this report to become a tool to make sure that our democracies thrive, that everyone can feel safe in their rights, and that we build a union that shows crystal clear not only to the people in europe, but the whole world, that even – and especially – in times of transformation, conflict and disruption, strong, viable democracies are the future, not authoritarian leaders invoking an imagined ‘better, cleaner’ past, to show clearly that commitment to the rule of law and not the law of the ruler wins the battle, not only in ukraine, but all over europe.
on behalf of the author of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am speaking today on behalf of mr petri sarvamaa, who unfortunately cannot be here and who wanted to address two specific points. first of all, thank you very much for this year's report on the rule of law. we are glad that this year it has become a little more precise, which is very important for us. the committee on budgetary control now knows that the conditionality mechanism has been triggered for the first time. it would be very important for us, however, to see that the future rule of law report also includes an assessment of the fulfilment of the various conditions set out in the conditionality mechanism by law, and that we can analyse them in it, and also an assessment of the measures taken by the member states to solve the problems that have been addressed by the commission. it would also be important to make a clear distinction between individual problems and systemic problems. it may be that at some point in time in one member state a specific error or tradition is not necessarily great, but it is not a fundamental problem, whereas in others it comes down to real systemic problems that run through the whole administration and through the funding and through the state. it is also necessary to make the differences clear.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive to the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, respect for the rule of law must be our highest political and institutional priority. it is therefore regrettable that the inaction of the bodies responsible for monitoring the protection of the rights of european citizens has led to such a worrying deterioration of the situation in hungary and poland. our task is to defuse, through regulatory and persuasive tools, the attacks, including media attacks, against judges, journalists, ngos and lgbt people, which unfortunately persistently circulate on our continent. the rule of law is the foundation of the european union, as we are seeing these days, and it strengthens citizens' trust in the institutions. it is fragile, however, because it is based only on the rule of law, it claims the exclusive rule of law. this is possible only when the powers of the state are separated and well balanced, so that none of them can overpower the others. other conditions essential to guaranteeing equality and the protection of the rights of citizens before the law are the efficiency of judicial systems and the independence of judges, since the efficient administration of justice is only achieved where independent judges and prosecutors are active, where adequate human and financial resources are available and where permanent and professional training of the judges themselves is provided: we are also seeing this these days with the topic under discussion of applying artificial intelligence to judicial systems. in addition, and i conclude, an efficient and transparent public administration with management codes and procedures to prevent illegal behaviour is of the utmost importance for a decisive fight against corruption; we must aim to strengthen measures to limit the length and cost of litigation and trials, as well as the funds available for legal aid and means of redress for citizens in need, so as to promote access to justice for all.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for his work. north macedonia confirms that it is an active member of the liberal and democratic tradition of the european union and nato, of which it has been a member since 2020. the european union is also aligning itself with the european union's foreign and security policy and with the european defence policy, including against unjustified and illegal russian aggression, by deciding to send military equipment to support the ukrainian army in its fight for freedom and the rule of law. we strongly hope that the bilateral dialogue with bulgaria will continue, so that we can finally encourage the process of national reforms necessary for full cooperation within the european framework, especially on the minority issue. this is a historic moment to demonstrate our common will to converge towards a single, large and strong european family, bearing the values of freedom and democracy. north macedonia represents a geostrategic investment for peace, stability and growth on the entire european continent; the european union is not a mere institution.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with president roberta metsola that the european union must think of ways to accelerate the enlargement process in the western balkans, because stability in the immediate neighbourhood means stability in the union. and in the face of this new geopolitical context, we clearly need to find a way of thinking about our europe and its unity without weakening it from within. as an italian member of the european parliament, i reiterate my strong support for albania's european path, which is already set out and cannot be slowed down, and i join this parliament in recognising albania's reform and convergence efforts to become a fully-fledged, pluralistic and just democracy, capable of strengthening its regional and international role within nato and in aligning itself with european foreign, security and defence policy, as we have seen in the reaction against russian aggression. the rule of law, one of the fundamental values of the union and the sine qua non for the protection of all the other fundamental values of the union, must be fully realised in albania, so that the past can be turned around once and for all. the albanian people want europe in their future, europe to play its part.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as an italian and a taxpayer i can only support the directive which finally introduces a minimum taxation for multinational companies and which should therefore be seen as a starting point and not as an end point. the 15% threshold is still too low compared with the taxation applied to companies resident in the union and does not in the least compensate for the enormous competitive advantage acquired and consolidated by multinationals. it is true that this directive will reduce the risk of the evasive phenomena created by the large international groups, which for too many years have not contributed to the revenue of the state in which they carried out their activities because they were not regulated. applying a minimum threshold of 15% is in effect a flat tax and citizens and businesses resident in the union would not understand this blatant and discriminatory difference in treatment. for example, in italy my party, the lega, has long been proposing the same flat tax of 15% on all incomes, but has also encountered enormous obstacles from the european institutions, citing the lack of progressivity. i am, like all of you, elected by the people and not by the multinationals, and i would like to see the 15% minimum threshold raised or, even better, the tax rates for small and mediumsized enterprises reduced.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i welcome the efforts to create a european education area, as it is important that as many european citizens as possible can benefit from quality and accessible education. i also support the recommendation on lifelong learning and micro-certificates for employability, as we need to help those who need to participate in education, training and further training, even for life. as skills and competences acquired in basic education quickly become obsolete due to rapid changes in the labour market, there is often a need for retraining or for acquiring experience abroad. therefore, micro-certificates are very important and it is essential that their introduction remains voluntary for member states, while respecting national competences. the introduction of the european education area and micro-certificates could be a step forward in the automatic and mutual recognition of qualifications, both for european and third-country students, such as those relocated from ukraine due to the war, which would be a great help to them even now, in the current situation.
mr president, commissioner, the committee on culture and education welcomes the commission's ambitions in the field of education and training with these three initiatives which will pave the way for greater access to learning opportunities for all. it is important that these initiatives are fully inclusive, addressing everyone, regardless of age, occupation or gender. member states should bear in mind that the opportunities available through individual learning accounts and the micro-credential system must not only meet the needs of the labour market but also the individual choices of those who want to change their personal development path. it is essential to have a monitoring and reporting mechanism in place to identify any limitations. finally, learning for environmental sustainability must be integrated into school curricula, including through citizenship education, to enable students to become active promoters of sustainable and inclusive societies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a european education area by 2025 will include greater cooperation between educational institutions, the digital transition and the development of foreign languages. the cooperation between member states in achieving a common vision of education is welcome, but this must be done in full compliance with article 165, which states that the union may only intervene in education in full respect of the responsibility of the states and their cultural and linguistic diversity. as laid down in the treaties, the european union can only assist, coordinate and supplement the action of the member states in the field of education. we will not accept any interference in our education system. the willingness to cooperate should not become a pretext for the european union to give unsolicited directives to the states.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic and the changes in the world of work require the european union to strengthen its vocational retraining instruments in order to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the ecological and digital transition. micro-credentials can certainly contribute to the process of up-skilling and re-skilling of staff in the light of digital and green skills, as well as to the re-skilling of workers, provided that there is a clear definition that ensures quality, portability and transparency. however, it should be stressed that micro-credentials should only be a complementary tool and cannot replace traditional vocational education and training pathways. formal education must remain a public good. we therefore support a holistic approach to education to enable students to acquire social and civic skills and not just knowledge relevant to the short-term needs of the labour market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all want to see that war crimes against civilian and military prisoners in ukraine do not go unpunished, but unfortunately this will happen, as has happened so far. for example, the perpetrators of the 2014 odessa massacre, in which dozens of men and women were massacred and burned alive in the trade union house, as well as thousands of other civilians in donbass were exterminated by the ukrainian army, as confirmed by reports from un and osce humanitarian missions, have remained unpunished; for eight years we have waited for justice for those victims, but it never came. today, putin is on the dock, and the russian army is the only one, regardless of the responsibility that can be objectively attributed to one or another militia. the european union ceased to be credible in pursuing justice when it ceased to be impartial and uncritically sided with a leader who was not immune from responsibility for the degeneration of the crisis with russia that led to this war. only if and when the union, starting from this house, regains its autonomy and objectivity, will this aim of ours become credible and achievable.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are many shadows, few lights, too many intentions that are destined to remain on paper. repowereu is a sign that the commission is living in a bubble. europe is taking the risk of zero emissions, ignoring economic indicators and dramatic growth estimates. this is a plan that starts from the wrong premise, namely that the current crisis coincides only with the conflict in ukraine, ignoring years of wrong policies on energy and climate. and there is a very serious lack: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources. from energy dependence on moscow to increased technological dependence on beijing. that's very clever. the extraction, processing and transport of minerals and metals used extensively in solar panels for wind turbines depend on an adequate supply of diesel and other fossil products made, say, by those who produce energy using coal-fired capacity. to write that energy saving is the fastest and cheapest way to lower your energy bills seems a bit trite to me, i would say on the verge of offensive; the commission did not have to tell us this. repowereu is only the latest piece of an ideologised narrative; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the interruption of supplies to poland and bulgaria shows, we are faced with the need to substantially reduce our dependence on imports of fossil fuels from russia. the new repowereu package is no longer just an environmental choice, but sets out strategies and measures that must lead europe to regain its energy sovereignty. i have no time to mention just two points which i consider very important. the first: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. the new target of 45% proposed will only be achievable if we can recover and overcome the obstacles by a real reduction in bureaucracy on future projects, as the commission has proposed. the second point concerns energy efficiency. we are very pleased that the commission has proposed a higher target for reducing energy consumption. 13% is the proposal that renew has been pushing for these months: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, madam commissioner, putin’s criminal adventures make it very urgent now to disconnect from russian fossil fuels. but we must not only become independent of russian gas and oil: we need to disconnect from all gas and oil, no matter where it comes from, because all of it accelerates climate change. we must avoid that the urgency of finding alternatives to the supply of russian gas and oil leads us to strategies, investment and contracts that will end up prolonging the use of these fossil fuels. it wouldn’t be wise to get rid of a politically uncomfortable dependency on gas to generate others, maybe not so uncomfortable, but just as harmful to the planet. because the real alternative is to speed up the deployment of renewables, setting more ambitious targets, establishing new legal obligations, and offering more european funding for deployment. that’s why we welcome repowereu, but without forgetting that the goal is to remove fossil fuels from our energy mix as quickly as possible and at the same time create 100% clean generation model that is local and distributed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has taken only a few weeks to destroy the lives of too many people in ukraine, but also to destroy your green utopia, which in recent years has given priority to reducing co2 emissions rather than to the energy independence of the european union, with its consequences for peace in europe. i'll just give you an example, and i only have a minute. president von der leyen, in order to justify the inevitable use of gas, nuclear energy and coal, announced with great emphasis that she wanted to cover our cities with photovoltaic panels. but who produces almost all the photovoltaic panels and who has a monopoly on the minerals needed to make them? china, the world champion of co2 emissions, environmental destruction, suppression of freedoms, ethnic and political violence, is a master beyond the reach of even vladimir putin's russia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank the commissioner to whom our work and appeal is addressed, but i see that she is absent, perhaps she had something more interesting to do than listen to us. i represent in this house the two largest italian islands, sicily and sardinia, which, thanks to their extraordinary beauty and the great adaptability of their citizens, have survived for decades inadequate european policies which have not favoured their development. not a single piece of legislation in any sector - agriculture, fisheries, tourism, transport, to name just a few - has taken account of their particularities. rules made for you and imposed on us. the blackmail of state aid legislation to limit any attempt by the state to compensate economically for the disadvantages of insularity. it is good that today, before the administrators, there is a cross-sectional, compact and united front, which demands with us a pact for the islands, a structured pact not linked to individual emergencies, lasting and which provides for development guided by a precise strategic agenda, with compensation for the disadvantages and the recognition, as for the outermost regions, of dedicated funding. labour, infrastructure, transport, energy costs and technical assistance: these are just some of the things we need to live and create development in our land. anything else, like slaves dressed as immigrants, thank you, but we don't need that!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr rapporteur, islands such as my own sicily and sardinia have suffered and are still suffering the effects of the pandemic crisis, which has severely affected their natural vocation as tourists and has aggravated their structural isolation. if we add to this the effects of the war in ukraine, with the significant increase in fuel and energy prices, the situation is likely to become unsustainable for activities such as agriculture, fisheries, handicrafts and trade. the islands need to start a process immediately to close the structural gaps which prevent them from being truly integrated into the global context. for this reason, a pact for the islands, as conceived, structured and articulated by the rapporteur, which puts in place a wide-ranging planning and takes account of the needs of the territories by including them within the economic and commercial mechanisms, is the way forward. that is why we shall vote in favour of the report, as president fitto has also announced. i think that insularity, therefore, can become a positive factor and not yet considered as a disadvantage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 60 years of the cap, whose aim should be to support agriculture and farmers by providing healthy, high-quality food, food that is sustainable for the environment, food that creates wealth and jobs and food that combats climate change. the war in ukraine risks upsetting the entire european and world food system, and we must respond to this risk by drastically reducing our dependence on foreign supplies and by helping self-sufficiency, especially in wheat, in european countries, italy in particular, which also means careful management of fertilisers and pesticides. some people are trying to take advantage of the war to return to practices which are disastrous from an environmental point of view - i am talking about pesticides and not only - and which would harm farmers and consumers, that is, all european citizens. then it takes courage. the cap money is our money, billions of our euros, which should be used to go forward, not backward, to support our farmers, to stimulate production of excellence, to encourage organic production and to protect citizens. never look back, look ahead and use our money well.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a context of war, crisis and serious difficulties for businesses and households, how do you respond? with a package of measures which are pure green utopia and which do not answer european problems at all. the prospect you are giving us is one of new european taxes, of a switch to electric cars that will put entire supply chains out of business, of new businesses that will be brought to their knees by new taxes linked to energy efficiency that will affect both companies and citizens, of new conditions and new obligations that entrepreneurs will not be able to support. in the face of your energy failures, you respond with further misguided strategies, which risk creating enormous economic and social damage. the european union contributes about 8-9% of global co2 emissions but you behave as if europe had a much higher share. this is absurd! the european plans, without support for businesses and without incentives for investment, risk undermining our competitiveness. i should also like to say that the prospect of electricity is putting the employment of entire sectors of the automotive industry at risk. relying on a technology that is entirely in the hands of the chinese, who control 80% of the raw materials needed to make batteries, is a glaring mistake. the commissioner for the internal market, mr breton, has admitted, i must say with many months' delay, that the switch to electric cars could mean hundreds of thousands of jobs being lost along the supply chain. well, here it is! and all this while energy and commodity surcharges are sinking companies. europe is building a future which will find us subjugated to the asian giant: this is not what the european citizens are asking for. i heard someone say that this vote will change history. unfortunately, history has already changed and you have chosen not to take the side of the european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing yet another act of political self-harm by the european union today. and this is the fit for 55%, a package that will lead to increased taxes and bills in order to chase the usual green idol at all costs, as if european households were not already facing an unprecedented crisis, between the economic consequences of the pandemic and the devastating effects of war. of course, the environment must be protected and the ecological transition must be supported, but we cannot afford to destroy the business fabric in this endeavour. i ask you: how many companies are you sending to bankruptcy and how many families will lose their jobs? let us take the automobile industry, for example, which is already in deep crisis. how do you think we can say goodbye to the combustion engine by 2035 without the flexibility mechanisms that thousands of companies are asking us for? we also look at the social climate fund, which is being touted by the european commission as the panacea for all ills. it is good to have a transition fund, but it will only start in 2025 and with the current energy cost, businesses and households risk not reaching it by 2025. not to mention the benefit we'll be doing to our competitors like china, ready to increase emissions while we decide to hurt ourselves. stop it ! we are on the side of families and businesses and will not be complicit in this latest attempt to green the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, the social climate fund will provide important support to vulnerable households and micro-enterprises, already affected by the pandemic and now even more affected by rising inflation and high utility bills. as the five star movement we are pleased that this regulation recognises the 110% energy efficiency bonus as good european practice. this is a measure strongly desired by the movement i represent, which is enabling thousands of citizens and businesses in italy to face the energy transition with more confidence. at the same time, however, we must recognise that the €72 billion foreseen for the fund until 2032 will not be enough to drive a green, sustainable and inclusive revolution. we need more resources and my proposal, commissioner, is very simple: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a principle which is also reflected in the treaty of rome. the invasion of ukraine reminds us of the importance of energy self-sufficiency to be achieved through a new mix based on renewable sources, as well as the need to involve our entire society. the social climate fund, together with this strengthened sure, can really enable us to achieve this extraordinary goal and really implement fit for 55.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, speaking of cbam, as the league for salvini premier we appreciate the noble attempt to counter the risk of carbon leakage to third countries. however, the mechanism as proposed today will expose producers to very high economic and financial risks which will put europe in a position to become the taillight of global competition. we are afraid that industrial desertification is more desirable than decarbonisation. we are asking for more time and we are asking the commissioner to give it to us because the commission had started on other dates, and we acknowledge that. italy, and in particular friuli venezia giulia, the region from which i come, could be very much affected by this mechanism. i heard my hungarian colleague. there are many problems like ours. the european economic fabric is also made up of small and mediumsized enterprises which alone could not cope with this rapid transition. slow down, slow down, slow down.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we are voting on very important matters for the future of europe. i can only comment on some of the issues i have dealt with personally. the social fund is a great idea, but it is not enough. there are problems with the emissions from cars and vans, because we are all in favour of the environment and the reduction of emissions, but we must also consider the technological, industrial and economic issues and above all the jobs. i have tabled two specific amendments on this subject. one is the question of the mass balance. you may ask why. because i think that the commission's approach to the mass balance will lead to a very significant increase in the cost of vans, which will have an impact on the economy of the companies. the other amendment is the one on the derogation for small producers. everyone has accused me of being the usual italian ferrari defender, of course, but i want to remind you, firstly, that ferrari developed the energy recovery system that many hybrid cars are now using, and secondly, that it is spending a lot of money, including 500 million euros from the italian government, to create lightweight solid state fuel cell batteries, which is a sine qua non for having electric planes. so from this point of view, we do something for the environment, but we try to be pragmatic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the electric car is the future, the petrol and diesel car the past. in a few years' time most citizens will have a charging pole under their house, while the combustion engine will be just a memory of a yellow photograph. this is good for our planet and for future generations, but also for our pockets, because we can fill up with solar panels on the roofs of our houses. this is also good for our europe, which will finally be free from dependence on oil-producing countries and will be able to rely on its own energy resources, such as solar, wind and all the renewable energies that are endless and clean. we must be visionaries, as the five star movement has been since its inception, and say a strong yes to the end of petrol and diesel cars from 2035. at the same time, we have a huge responsibility which we cannot pass on to all those small and mediumsized companies in the motor vehicle and road transport sector which, particularly in italy, employ thousands of people. we don't have to leave anyone behind. this is why a european fund is urgently needed to mitigate the possible employment impact of this transition to sustainable mobility. this is the right way to go: more electric cars, more bike lanes, more efficient public transport, less harmful emissions and fewer deaths from smog. today we can finally say: europe in the future!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while noting the need to decarbonise road transport and the importance of orienting the market in this direction, it should be stressed that zero-emission mobility requires significant investment by manufacturers and the component industry, which includes many small and medium-sized enterprises. it also requires the rapid development in europe of a sustainable battery supply chain and a market for affordable new and second-hand electrified vehicles. it should be noted that an exclusively electric strategy would increase dependence on totalitarian states such as russia and china, as evidenced by the first bottlenecks in the supply of raw materials for batteries. we therefore support low-emission mobility, provided that it is economically viable and that it provides for a credible commitment to reducing pollution, without, however, envisaging a definitive stop to the use of combustion-powered vehicles from 2035 onwards. environmental sustainability and economic sustainability have to go hand in hand, or we'll end up in a green world full of failed businesses and unemployed workers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a bubble totally disconnected from reality. the debate today, which has seen the increasingly surreal commissioner timmermans and many, too many colleagues in the lead, leads me to believe that everyone in this house is living on another planet, a planet where nobody knows that there has been a pandemic, a commodity crisis, the explosion in energy prices, a conflict. the tragic side is that few have thought about the damage that this package will do to competitiveness and employment, by not implementing the proposals of those who instead, from the territories, are calling for a gradual path, which accompanies companies and workers towards the ecological transition. you want to do in eight years what europe has failed to do in 30 years, by passing off as ambition what are in fact big economic interests and an overdose of ideology. meanwhile, international competition is mocking what european politicians are deciding, with china poised to deliver the final blow to european industry. you are destroying europe, you are ruining the working people. your movement is no longer environmentalism, it's called collaborationism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at this dramatic moment it is really dangerous to sacrifice the european economies on the altar of the ecological utopia of the green revolution. some of europe's biggest polluters, like germany, which alone is responsible for a quarter of the eu's greenhouse gas emissions, want to wipe out their guilt by imposing unrealistic climate targets on everyone, such as a ban on combustion cars, before technologies, infrastructure and citizens are ready for this momentous change. producing only electric cars from 2035 is not going green or sustainable, but it means closing companies, creating unemployment and poverty. europe, which contributes the least to the world's co2 emissions, is really prepared to switch from being enslaved by russian gas to being enslaved by chinese lithium batteries, and this for absurd reasons of principle? brussels is still in a position to revise this ideological and punitive view of itself, which risks turning the most important western civilization into a dependence on the least democratic and most polluting countries in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have read the conclusions of the european council and in the more than 2 700 words there is no mention of peace. the only weapon that can bring peace is diplomacy, but peace and diplomacy are clearly not part of the european strategy in ukraine. i think this is a serious mistake, because the only real victory is to bring peace back to the ukrainian people. a european strategy without a concrete diplomatic solution is bound to fail. if we want to be protagonists on our continent, if we want to bring putin to the peace table, europe must take a strong political initiative at the diplomatic level and force him to negotiate. we have a tool at our disposal, economic deterrence, with sanctions based on independence from russian gas. we must invest common resources on the model of the recovery fund, a path which we in the five star movement consider inevitable. president michel, peace is born from the effort to say no, thinking first of all of the ukrainian people. i hope that at the next european council europe will finally take a strong stand.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the deaths in the mediterranean, the walls on the hungarian border and the inhumane treatment of refugees on the border between belarus and poland are dark pages in european history that have sent the wrong message to the whole world. europe is not one that turns its back on its neighbour. europe is the one that welcomes almost 24 million citizens born in third countries and gives them hope for a better future. but now we have to face fierce competition from the united kingdom, the united states, australia and other emerging countries which are taking many young talents away from europe. this must be fought because it deprives our capacity for growth in areas that are crucial for our future. just to name a few: the commission has also proposed that the so if we are to be really competitive and attractive, we must reform the single permit directive so that we can welcome deserving young people without constraints. less bureaucracy, fewer barriers, more work, more rights. only then will our europe become a hub of opportunity. are we ambitious? yes, we want to be, we can be.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today the left is claiming the right to interfere with a hypothetical decision by the us supreme court to reconsider abortion. this hemicycle has no authority on abortion, which remains the exclusive competence of the member states, let alone a sovereign state which is not even part of the european union. abortion is not a human right. human rights are something else: the right to life, to individual liberty, to religious liberty, not abortion. the attack on conscientious objection is also intolerable. you may forget that the eu charter of fundamental rights, in article 10 (2), recognises conscientious objection under national laws. the eu should seek to eliminate the need for abortion, as advocated in the 1994 cairo programme of action. let's try to understand the reasons why women have abortions. what is the eu doing to help a young mother or a family in difficulty prevent abortion? protecting women really means creating the conditions for them to make choices for life. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' intervention)
answer to a blue-card question. of course, they are equally important. excuse me, what does equality mean? i have quoted article 10 (2). what does equality mean? what do you mean, "i'm not"? equality is also an important article, of course.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am surprised, or perhaps not surprised, that the european parliament is discussing hypothetical decisions concerning the united states over which it has no authority. i am surprised because today in europe there are millions of women who are making the decision not to continue their pregnancy because there is no one to support them. a country that wants to consider itself civilized should not allow this, but should commit itself to helping women who want to become mothers, especially in a time like this of "demographic winter". so, ladies and gentlemen, before you worry about what is happening on the other side of the ocean, i would ask you to take care of the people who live in our countries, to whom we have a political and moral responsibility. mother teresa of calcutta used to say: "if a mother can kill her own child, there is nothing to stop me from killing you and you from killing me". what is needed is not to point the finger at others, but to develop a serious policy for our citizens in support of motherhood.
madam president, the human rights situation in china has not stopped deteriorating, but the west has not stopped doing business there. the persecution of the chinese regime against the uyghur people has been now for years, but we have been looking the other way for too long, despite the accumulated evidence of the serious crimes committed. after the publication of the xinjiang police files, it is impossible to deny the evidence. there is ethnic, religious and linguistic persecution against an entire people. the chinese regime is for human rights what greenhouse gases are to climate change. so it is time to act, to take measures to protect the uyghur people and to let the chinese regime know that if it does not correct its policy, the european union is ready to change its economic and trade relationship and feel the consequences.
madam president, dear colleagues, the latest evidence shown in the xinjiang police files confirms that what is taking place today in this province is systematic state-driven crimes against humanity and genocide. the evidence of the ccp’s crimes are there. they are collected and documented. now it is time for action and political will to adopt the corporate due diligence framework and to bring in as soon as possible a ban on the products made by forced labour, as promised by the commission. we must also ensure full implementation of the export rules to ensure that our technology is not used for surveillance or other forms of repression. finally, it is necessary to sanction the ministry of public security, including its head, zhao kezhi, and all those responsible for crimes against humanity and genocide in xinjiang. it is time for the ccp regime to face consequences for its crimes and for us to stand with the people of xinjiang and across china and hong kong who are constantly oppressed.
madam president, commissioner, credibility in the defence of human rights is gained when all those who violate them are measured against the same standard. china is great and powerful, admirable in many ways, but it deserves strong condemnation for the repressive mechanisms it applies to dissidents and minorities. we have recently seen evidence of intolerable behaviour against uighurs in xinjiang, which confirms what we already knew: that we are facing a real risk of a planned and systematic genocide of a culture that is disturbing. and repression has also become a very profitable business. no one deserves to be treated like that. the union and its member states must therefore confront the big picture, promote personalised sanctions for officials and commanders involved in these practices, take the case to the un human rights committee and reject products resulting from forced labour. i would also encourage you to raise this matter with the chinese leadership in all the forums where we meet them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, shoot 'em where they stand. these are the watchwords of chinese police in forced re-education camps for uighurs. the shocking revelations about the totalitarian policy of persecution of this minority in china leave us no doubt. for years the regime in beijing has tried to hide what we in europe have also been denouncing for a long time. now that the evidence is clear and leaves no room for any further delay. the european union must push towards a policy of decoupling from the communist regime. no more dealing with people with blood on their hands! so let's re-prioritize our economic and diplomatic relations with those who are our old allies: the united states, the atlantic alliance and the free and democratic west.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a bitter coincidence that this resolution on human rights in xinjiang is being discussed on the very day that this parliament is voting to further increase europe's energy dependence on the chinese communist regime. where are the solar panels we buy in europe made? where is 95% of the polysilicon needed to run photovoltaic cells made? in china, in the xinjiang re-education camps, where the incarceration of an entire ethnic group, forced labor, sterilization of women, deportation of children, the erasure of the identity and culture of the uyghurs are underway. and even the defence of the environment cannot justify the hypocrisy that this parliament is going through, because it is the coal-fired power stations that are driving the production process in xinjiang, the ones that make china the largest emitter of co2 in the world. what hypocrisy!
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am very bitter that such an important debate is being relegated to the last debate of the evening, with an empty house, as if it were something to hide under the carpet, as if it were something to be ashamed of. 5,898 christians were murdered in 2021 alone, 16 people a day killed for their religious beliefs. of these, 78% are in nigeria alone. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that's why we're here tonight, albeit a little stealthily, not to offend anyone. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, europe has christian roots at its foundation, whether you like it or not. it is therefore an obligation, a moral duty for europe to become the bulwark of the defence of christianity in the world. there are 360 million christians in the world who are persecuted just for daring to make the sign of the cross, including in nigeria. we can't turn around. these people expect something from us. it is a political duty, it is an institutional duty, but above all it is a moral duty to defend the christians who are threatened in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the conference on the future of europe was supposed to open a debate on the real causes of the crises affecting the union in order to make it sustainable, instead of proposing mechanisms to circumvent parliament, legitimising initiatives in the interests of some and to the detriment of others, since the most discussed amendment to the treaty is the overcoming of the unanimity vote in favour of qualified majority voting in the council, also in the field of foreign policy, common security, budget and taxation. if the objective is to overcome rapidly a mechanism which impedes the development of a common defence, article 48 offers no way of making this possible in a short time, because the simplified procedure concerns only amendments relating to the internal policies and actions of the union and the procedure laid down in article 48 (7) cannot apply to decisions in the field of defence. the elimination of unanimity would also jeopardize the sovereignty of the member states, because it would allow the creation of block alliances between countries, and this is not in the spirit of the treaties. the amendments will have to cover all economic governance, starting with the so-called monetary statute in the treaty on the functioning of the eu, to articles 123, 124 and 125 on the prohibition of monetisation, bailouts and fiscal solidarity, which have made the eurozone unable to cope with the crises of the last decades. the citizens we represent expect a policy of investment and structural reforms, already partly achieved but driven by pro-cyclical punitive objectives, not dictated solely by the deficit/gdp ratio or by shortsighted obsolete budgetary constraints and conditionality, such as state aid, and by an ecb statute with only inflationary targets and not employment targets. it is the ban on lender of last resort and certainly not the modification of the unanimous vote in the council that would compromise the protection of the interests of individual member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is more than ten years since we amended the european treaties. europe today is very different from europe ten years ago. as the approval of the recovery fund and the reception of millions of people fleeing war and hunger demonstrate, the european union is capable of meeting the challenges it faces. but too many times unanimity and cross-border vetoes have prevented a european and equitable response. it is time for a change, a change of pace and the opening of the road to reform of the treaties. some say it's not the time. on the contrary, it is precisely in difficult times that we are building the europe of tomorrow, guided by the same spirit that enabled us, 70 years ago, to transform europe into a continent where the rule of law prevails and no longer the rule of law of force. let's not waste this opportunity. if there are problems, there must be solutions. today we can and must take another step forward on our journey towards a stronger and fairer europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, our union's market is the most demanded on the planet and we cannot allow goods produced in countries where the barbaric practice of forced labour still exists to enter it. first, we must put life before profit. we must help our companies, which are often penalized by unfair competition based on the exploitation of children. those who exploit children turn off the light of the world, because exploiting children is committing a crime against humanity. i think it is interesting to study in depth the evaluation and control system applied by the us customs for the control of suspected cases of forced labour exploitation, which has already led to the blocking of 912 shipments in the first months of 2022. because when a man tells you that he's become rich through hard work, the first thing you ask is: whose job?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president von der leyen, as nelson mandela said, 'peace is a dream and can be a reality', but to build it we must be able to dream. the atrocities committed by the russian army in ukraine are enormous and we europeans will never forget them, but to prevent new and far worse atrocities, we need peace now. after four months of war, it's time to turn the page. the next european council should promote a diplomatic escalation leading first to a ceasefire and finally to peace negotiations. we make dreams come true. president, for those who are distracted and in bad faith, i repeat once again that the five star movement is pro-european and pro-atlantic and says yes to the accession process of ukraine, moldova and georgia, but let us not forget the legitimate aspirations of the many citizens of albania and the balkans who have been waiting for years for an answer. the european union is today the hope of peace for millions of citizens in the world and the beacon of prosperity, solidarity and rights, let us never forget that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a perfect storm. the european intervention in the war in ukraine and the drought affecting italy and parts of central europe have produced a devastating situation for our economy. it was also foreseeable that raw materials would become a battleground with russia, just as it was known that our dependence on russian gas cannot be reduced to zero in a few months. famine and drought now have to be addressed at the level of the real economy, while monitoring the reactions of markets to rising inflation and the resulting monetary policy choices. the escalation in commodity and energy prices is hitting households and eroding the margins of the industrial system, just when more investment in renewables is needed. the proposal for a gas price ceiling to be discussed at the european council tomorrow is necessary to curb speculation on the price of electricity. i hope that common sense and solidarity will prevail on this issue among the member states, and that we will avoid rationing which would affect our productive sector, slow down italy's economic growth and jeopardize the sustainability of the huge public debt which has been accumulated so far.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, we jointly created the rrf to face the economic and social impacts of the pandemic. today we face a new crisis provoked by russia. inflation has reached a record high, hitting both consumers and businesses across europe. and we see a major increase in prices, especially in energy and raw materials. so we have to monitor closely the impact of these developments on rrf implementation. but let me say very clearly that the situation confirms the importance and the timeliness of the facility. the rrf ensures that the union acts as one in such difficult times, creating effective and aligned measures to boost investments and reforms across all member states. and this is especially important with the low level of growth that we have in these months. of course, it is not easy to deliver under such a short time frame. as your report highlights, the commission must and will closely monitor member states’ progress in implementing the plans. and we will only disburse funds when member states fulfil the milestones and targets they have committed to. overall, the rrf is supporting the green transition by allocating almost 40% of national plans to the climate and financing only measures that do no significant harm to the environment. digitalisation is also crucial, with over well over 20% of the funds. the plans also contribute to social objectives and the implementation of the pillar of social rights. around 30% of funds contribute to social expenditure for education, labour market, health and skills. so a swift implementation of measures across the six pillars of the regulation is key, and member states are acting on all six pillars. when looking back at the progress made so far, we have almost eur 100 billion in rrf funds disbursed and eur 114 billion issued in just one year. we can proudly say that implementation is well on track and i am happy that your implementation report expresses the same view. it acknowledges the work done by member states and the eu institutions to bring the rrf to life, and i am glad that the parliament has found our recovery and resilience scoreboard and the first rrf annual report useful. we take note of the parliament’s call for better communication in the member states. we will take up this call with our interlocutors in the member states and discuss how each can be more transparent and proactive in communicating the implementation and the content of their plans with the stakeholders. i would like to reaffirm that we will make no compromise when it comes to the protection of the union’s financial interests. this is why we must also protect the union’s budget against breaches of the rule of law. as you know, a few weeks ago we published our assessment of the polish plan. the commission has worked closely with the polish authorities for more than one year since the submission of the plan and scrutinised each measure. poland has committed to strengthen important aspects of the independence of the judiciary. to leave no ambiguity on the matter, when the council adopts a plan the real work begins. poland needs to deliver on its commitments on the rule of law before any payment can be made. the positive assessment and adoption of the plan does not lead in itself to any disbursement. we will also continue to address rule of law issues through other instruments specifically designed for this purpose. let me end now with a glimpse to repowereu. you have seen the proposal for which we want to use the power and the available loan capacity of the rrf, as well as additional funds, to swiftly and effectively strengthen europe’s open strategic autonomy, wean ourselves off russian fossil fuels, support renewables, and reduce energy consumption overall. so i look forward to hearing your views also on repowereu during this debate, and to work with you in the coming months to bring this important proposal to life.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the recovery and resilience plans in terms of grants amount to eur 338 billion, which is the result of a debt that the european commission has taken on. this means that our rulers must act responsibly. it's got to be worth it. this is an effort of solidarity which, if necessary, should be repeated in the future. for that, this action and the results have to happen and they have to be positive. so more execution is needed. in my member state, portugal, in 2021, we received eur 2100 million and implemented eur 90 million and there are member states that have an even worse implementation than this. in addition, it is necessary to ensure that there is no substitution of expenditure, that prrs do not replace the state budget. prrs must be additional and also cannot promote centralisation or concentration, either in terms of investments in the territory or in terms of investments in the same company. there must be territorial cohesion and these amounts must also be well distributed. i'll end with a question: there are member states that are going to get more than what was planned because they reacted worse, let us say, and responded worse to the crisis. my country, for example, will receive some eur 1 600 million in additional aid, which will be added to the eur 13 900 million in grants. it means that recovery and resilience programs are going to be changed. will the commission be involved in these amendments in the face of war and new demands? you'll direct them? it is a question to which we also need an answer, because the european commission has to enforce the regulation and has to take account of the new reality of the situation we are living in.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the commissioner will need his headphones. κύριε πρόεδρε, ο μηχανισμός ανάκαμψης δημιουργήθηκε για αντιμετώπιση των επιπτώσεων της πανδημίας. είχε πρωτόγνωρα χαρακτηριστικά και αντικατοπτρίζει ουσιαστικά την αλληλεγγύη και τη δυνατότητα της ευρωπαϊκής ένωσης. και στο σημερινό ψήφισμα επισημαίνουμε τη σημαντική θετική επιρροή του, αλλά παραθέτουμε και στοιχεία για σωστή βελτίωση της επιτυχίας του, όπως είναι ο κοινωνικός πυλώνας με ποσοτικά κριτήρια, η αναθεώρηση των κριτηρίων για τα δάνεια και η συμμετοχή των κοινωνικών εταίρων με αποτελεσματικό τρόπο. τέλος, τα κράτη μέλη μπορούν να διασφαλίσουν ότι η χρηματοδότηση θα φτάνει με ισότιμο τρόπο σε όλους, και ιδιαίτερα τους μικρούς και αδυνάτους. ακούγοντάς σας προηγουμένως διαπίστωσα ότι σωστά έχετε επισημάνει τις επιπτώσεις από τις κυρώσεις και την εισβολή της ρωσίας στην ουκρανία. ο μηχανισμός αυτός μπορεί να βοηθήσει μερικώς, για παράδειγμα με επενδύσεις στις εγχώριες πηγές ενέργειας, αλλά δεν αρκεί αυτό. ο μηχανισμός σχεδιάστηκε για τις επιπτώσεις της πανδημίας και οι ευρωπαίοι πολίτες αναμένουν παρόμοια αποφασιστική παρέμβαση βασισμένη στην αλληλεγγύη. διαφορετικά, και τελειώνω, το οικονομικό και κοινωνικό κόστος θα διογκώνεται και η οργή των πολιτών θα διογκώνεται εναντίον μας για την απάθεια μας.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner gentiloni, i believe that the recovery and resilience facility has these vulnerabilities at this point. first of all: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the programme. secondly: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. thirdly: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's energy policy is based on the principle of the european union's energy policy, which is based on the principle of the european union's energy policy. i therefore hope that the rrf will be further implemented by repowereu, together with the redefinition of sustainable objectives and a streamlining of implementation procedures, so as to allow countries to reformulate their pnrrs to make them effectively achievable.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). one crisis follows another and no one knows what the future holds. and in such cases man does what he or she does best, namely, adapt. at european level, we have added a recovery plan to the multiannual investment framework. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy efficiency and climate change objectives. you yourself, commissioner, indicated that this should be actively involved in this debate. the resources we have are limited, and so we have to spend them where we as a collective have the greatest return. the eu must therefore focus on these areas and there are many where it can make a difference. in that respect, the emphasis on energy independence is a very good thing. the commission will also be able to use the newly developed technology to develop the new generation of electricity. and here we have to consider something that is important today. the current inflation is not only driven by the rising price of fossil fuels and the disruption of global supply chains due to the pandemic. we also have green inflation, which is the upward pressure on the price level, precisely because of that transition. the problem is not least the ever-rising prices of raw materials, especially of much-needed rare metals and minerals. the international energy agency, the imf and the world bank are unanimous in their conclusions: these price increases will continue for some time. in my view, the blind increases in climate targets are counterproductive. i find it a little worrying that certain groups in this parliament continue to lose themselves in a range of climate objectives. the citizens will soon be confronted with this towering ambition in the form of increased burdens. and that at a time when purchasing power is already, to use a euphemism, under severe pressure. i would therefore ask the commission to continue to emphasize energy independence and not to use the crisis to accelerate the green transition, with the result that prices will continue to rise.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the recovery and resilience fund is an important positive step in the history of the european union, mr gentiloni, and that is why it must succeed. and to succeed, all governments must understand that this money belongs to the people and not to the parties that govern. and they have to go for the purposes that they're intended for, which means planning, controls, accountability, transparency, away from client networks and corruption. this money should not go to oligarchs, but to the green and digital transition, to strengthening the welfare state, public health, reducing inequalities, supporting employment and especially the young, for small and medium-sized enterprises, which must be able to cope. and to know that this money is scarce in a period of inflation, war, risk of recession and stagflation. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to help the regions affected by the crisis, such as the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european regional development fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the creation of a european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european social fund, the european union, the european union, the european union, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, etc. as with the pandemic, we have the recovery and resilience fund to deal with inflation and the negative consequences of war. we need new tools, not stealing money from the recovery fund to fund repower eu.
madam president, the reality around us, from the russian aggression to the turbulence on the energy market, confirmed the genuine need for the recovery fund. many of the decisions that we took during the negotiations, from the inception of the european instrument to avoid internal market fragmentation to fostering the renewables in the energy mix, were forward-looking, and the parliament largely contributed to it. so i think this is something we need to learn from what we’ve done and be happy about it, but we also believe that further action is needed. fiscal capacity at the european level is currently missing. that’s something that would allow us to cope with external shocks like the russian aggression, for example. repowereu represents a very good opportunity, absolutely. it’s an opportunity to drastically accelerate our energy transition and increase europe’s energy independence. but its swift deployment is possible thanks to previous decisions taken in terms of budget and own resources. what would happen if we had new crises coming up? we wouldn’t have new tools. we wouldn’t have resources. that’s why i think we need to move forward. we need to complete our economic and monetary union, because when we are united and look forward, we are capable of great things. but we just need the tools.
madam president ! erasmus+ is one of the european union's most successful mobility programmes, having made a huge impact on the lives of more than a million young people in its 30 years of existence, by helping them to gain access to the labour market, gain international experience and learn languages. hungary and hungarian young people have always been very active participants in the programme, and i particularly welcome the fact that the erasmus programme is increasingly providing opportunities for students with disabilities, health or educational difficulties. it is good that the programme pays particular attention to the eastern partnership, including helping ukrainian students. i acknowledge that progress has been made in simplifying erasmus, but there are still many obstacles, for example for young people from national or linguistic minorities and projects. erasmus+ should also not become a tool for political and ideological propaganda. the inclusive nature of the program should not be used as a tool of the lgbt lobby to brainwash people. the sexual education of children and youth is the responsibility of parents, let them do that. erasmus should be about european mobility in education, training and sport.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner gabriel, erasmus+ is the longest-running european programme, the one that best represents the core values of europe, the one that enhances cultural exchange between young people and their growth. to be a 360-degree success, erasmus+ must fully reflect progressive values, starting with inclusion and diversity. it must be a programme open to all, irrespective of physical, economic, social, geographical or other barriers. this implementation report has enabled us to assess the effects of the inclusion measures in the previous programme. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the amounts for mobility grants are often insufficient and this is a reason for social exclusion for some students. we therefore call for an increase in the 2023 budget and for member states to devote more of their resources to the full implementation of inclusion and equality measures. thank you, laurence, for your work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tens of thousands of hectares of sardinia are being invaded by locusts which are eating 200 to 250 tonnes of vegetables a day. this is one of the most serious infestations of recent decades and the causes are mainly to be found in desertification linked to land abandonment and climate change. i have also said on other occasions that we must rethink the system of incentives and compensation for farmers and reward those who work the land, rather than giving funds on the basis of mere ownership, because it is precisely on uncultivated land that the invasion of celery grows. in sardinia, a voluntary committee of farmers has already been set up, who now see their year compromised. i was contacted personally and i immediately got involved with the commission and the paff committee to demand the immediate application of the measures provided for in the regulations in force. pending decisive action to combat the pest, we ask that sardinia be given the possibility of making extraordinary changes to its rural development programme, to include effective emergency measures already provided for in the cap and in european legislation to compensate producers for losses, and to finance research projects on strategies to combat and coexist with the pest. we need to move now. the sardinian farmers cannot wait or the damage will be irreparable.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the rapporteur and a special thanks to president buzek, who has been a patient weaver of a final agreement which includes the diversity and the different sensitivities expressed by the political groups. this is an anomalous phase in the history of the energy market and it brings out clearly all the limits of the crusade against gas which we have seen in this house for too long. a crusade promoted by those who refused, perhaps still refuse to accept that gas is an indispensable source of transition. beyond that, i think the biggest risk of his approach to mandatory storage levels is that it will create tension on the issue of gas prices. however, the council's acceptance of my group's proposal to maintain a lower threshold is likely to lead to savings on the price side. no solution has been adopted to curb speculation on gas prices and this will be the next urgent matter to be worked on.
mr president, at the end, we reached a good compromise in the storage regulation in case of emergency as the scope to protect our citizens and households. however, we could do more with the ban on russian gas, which should not be used to fill up our storage facilities. i welcome the fact that energy efficiency has become part of the security of gas supply policy and the filling target mechanism, even if we are still far away from a real policy that would prioritise energy efficiency, savings and renewables. we should clearly understand that the disagreement is temporary because of the war and a geopolitical moment. i would like to remind the commission that the real goal is the phasing out of gas and not its promotion. that’s why i say that this regulation and the next gas package are not completely aligned with the targets of the paris agreement or the green deal because there is still no decommissioning of gas infrastructures, and targets on energy efficiency and renewables are insufficient.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall come straight to the point. it is right that the member states of the european union should make efforts to ensure that the minimum and compulsory gas storage required to survive the coming winter is maintained, but it is also right that a ceiling on gas prices should be introduced, because it is not sensible to reduce our dependence on russian gas by paying more and more for it every day. and it would be appropriate, for once, to admit here that it was certainly not orban who has so far prevented the gas price ceiling, but other european governments, the greener and more hypocritical ones. the good news is that this hypocrisy has an expiry date, which is the next plenary session in strasbourg when the opinion on the inclusion of gas in the source taxonomy for the energy transition will be voted. and so i want to see how the european left will explain a vote against natural gas. a vote against reality, a vote against energy security and our freedom.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the failure of france to extradite to italy ten red brigades for acts of terrorism committed during the years of lead is a controversial page in european history. the ten terrorists are european citizens who have used violence to kill innocent people and servants of the state, who have endangered democracy and the rule of law, who have denied pluralism, tolerance, justice, solidarity and human dignity. these ten european terrorists are anti-european at heart and undermine the friendship between italy and france. france should put an end to this sad history of friction with italy, characterized by the bitter taste of injustice and impunity. the italians have all appreciated the respectful words of president macron, and i therefore ask for the support of our colleagues for our proposal to add tomorrow the debate on judicial cooperation in europe, in the light of the french court's decision to refuse the extradition of convicted italian terrorists.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we propose that a commission statement with debate on the subject of aviation malfunctions affecting european citizens be added to the agenda. this is an urgent situation which is becoming truly unsustainable and is affecting millions of travellers on the continent, impacting our economy, especially in the tourism sector. we therefore ask that the debate on the brexit measures be postponed in view of the increased urgency affecting the aviation sector. i hope that the other groups will support our proposal.
in the name of the id group. yes, mr president, thank you, we are in favour.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are again discussing death and violence at europe's borders, today with reference to the events in melilla and the violent and threatening stampede that tried not to enter, commissioner, but to break through the border between morocco and spain. pedro sánchez, the spanish socialist prime minister, called the tragedy 'an attack on the territorial integrity of our country', 'a violent and organised assault by the mafia of human trafficking', but he, a member of the same party which has been denying the existence of human trafficking and its accomplices in the mediterranean for years and boycotting effective solutions, can say that if we say that we are sovereignists, even bad people and racists and, like matteo salvini, we are on trial for defending our borders. you see, we can't talk about violence and death without looking at the real responsibility: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the responsibility is not, as you would have us believe, that of states like morocco, which are trying with great difficulty to support and contain an epochal phenomenon without real and concrete cooperation, but it is yours and your hypocrisy. only by defending the borders can we attempt to write the word "end" on a criminal business that generates millions of euros on the backs of desperate people, giving the opportunity to terrorists and criminals to infiltrate our territories. europe cannot accommodate all of africa and africans have the right to live in their own countries in a civilised manner.
mr president, commissioners, colleagues, we have reached the culmination of a complicated work on the dsa, for us it was a missed opportunity to contribute to online safety and the protection of fundamental rights. i regret to say two things: one, the presence of trusted flaggers, professional whistleblowers, whose reports will take precedence over those of any citizen; secondly, the introduction, almost on the fly, by the commission of the crisis response mechanism, a proposal introduced without a real democratic process, considering that, already in 2020, we were in the midst of the covid crisis. the commission would have wanted almost unlimited power to declare a state of emergency and require platforms to take mitigation measures to control freedom of expression. we have just taken off our masks and the commission wanted to give us a new baggage, this time our ideas. despite the short time, we have managed to contain this power.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president von der leyen has strongly praised superbonus 110, an italian measure defined by revolutionary europe as an ecological transition that creates development and jobs while protecting the environment. unfortunately, since november 2021, this measure has come under a frontal attack from the draghi government. changing the rules on the fly has blocked the flow of credit, penalizing companies and depriving them of the liquidity to work. an unprecedented economic and social catastrophe is at stake. the sanpaolo agreement denounces 16 billion in loans committed and four in disbursed. the loans frozen would amount to tens of billions, that is, tens of thousands of firms destroyed, hundreds of thousands of jobs wiped out. i call on europe to use every means of deterrence permitted by the treaties against the italian government, whose sense of responsibility i appeal to: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the channels of state-owned enterprises, the italian post office and the cassa depositi e prestiti are immediately reactivated, and that the agreement with the enterprises, which are giving an unprecedented boost to gdp, is respected. italy signed agreements on the ecological transition at the g20 in december 2020 and this measure goes in that direction. we had the first entrepreneurial suicides destroyed by these poor choices. before the whole of italy commits suicide, unblock the circulation of credit, thus avoiding the ruin of hundreds of thousands of italians.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about assistance and providers of assistance, the figures are very clear: there are 6 million professional carers in the european union and 50 million 'informal' carers who are not recognised by an employment contract. nearly 80 percent are women who, in addition to providing care, must also work. unfortunately, there are still huge disparities between member states in the protection of these figures. i think of the women who have to care for a disabled child or an elderly, sick parent. the law does not recognize any kind of assistance for these people, except for small or short periods. many women are thus forced to choose between working and caring for a sick family member. i believe these are choices that no one in life should ever make. very often families are left alone, and more constructive discussions are needed on care, because it is the family that first takes care of these situations. this will serve to protect both the person receiving the care and the person providing it.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs maria walsh, for her draft report and also her office for the work they have done together. as the report argues, the time has come to seriously address the question of political recognition of the crisis in the mental health of citizens in the member states of the european union and to consider what action can be taken at european and member state level. if we ignore the call to action, we will put at risk especially the younger generations, who represent the workers of the future and the future society. the pandemic has had a dramatic impact on the lives of millions of citizens, exacerbating the effects of mental health, resulting in worsening rates of stress, anxiety and depression. the text addresses issues such as the right to disconnect, teleworking and automation, with sufficient emphasis on national competence in the field, i.e. clarifying the parties, as well as the need for appropriate mental health education and awareness initiatives, employer training and also better research and data collection activities at european level. although not all the passages are written as we would have liked them to be, the rapporteur has been very open to listening, and we thank her for this and for showing that common sense has no political colour.
in writing. the social economy consists of the economic sector made up of associations, foundations and social enterprises; it involves 2.8 million organisations across europe and employs over 13 million people. these organisations play a fundamental role in our societies, since they operate in a number of areas: social assistance, aid for the disabled, health care, housing, trade and tourism. it is worth noting that these entities are purely territorial: operate in a regional or local context, making a decisive contribution to the economic growth of a territory and implementing the principle of subsidiarity. the commission's action plan for the social economy raises concerns about the guidelines for obtaining resources and funding: there is a serious risk that only certain social entities aligned with certain ideological and political dictates will be able to access the financial aid provided. we therefore take note of the commission's proposal on the action plan; however, this plan must take account of the particular geographical situation of the associations or foundations and must be as inclusive as possible in order to include all the entities operating in our societies.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, removing clean gas and nuclear from the taxonomy means raising the cost of bills for households and businesses. the equation is very simple: in a time of energy crisis and economic recession, we cannot afford to continue to pursue the green ideology at all costs. we have been saying this for a long time, but the european commission has finally taken notice. the green transition must be managed with social and economic sustainability. we must help our companies, which face global competitors without the same energy constraints, we must prevent the social cost of the transition from being at the expense of workers and families. the environmental objectives are shared, of course, but they must be achieved by ensuring stable energy sources for the member states. ladies and gentlemen, faced with these strategic choices, we carefully consider which direction we want to take. protecting the environment also means listening to and preserving households and businesses, helping them to make the right transition to renewable energy. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' speech)
the answer is "blue card". we must keep nuclear power, otherwise it will be impossible for the cost of energy to go up. what other options do we have? if we run out of nuclear and gas, what other solutions do we have? what do you propose? what do you propose to do? for a period, for a transition, this is necessary, because citizens and businesses will not go on, citizens have the most expensive bills. can you answer differently? it is necessary.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is good to be ambitious in life, but you must always look at reality. the european commission says that in 2030, 30% of the energy needed in the european union will be produced by gas and nuclear, plus 4% by solid fuels. the energy will increase in the commission's image by 10%. i think it will increase the energy demand, it will increase much more. without nuclear energy and without gas, this cannot be achieved. even a 55 percent reduction in emissions cannot be achieved without using gas and nuclear energy. in my view, the use of the war in ukraine and the alleged absence of lng in this delegated act are false arguments. you can't use statements of russian officials during the war. you can't use the war in ukraine to create emotion and to bring arguments in favor of the objection. they're two completely different things. lng is of course there, because it's gas. so, folks, we've already voted on one taxonomy, we need to vote on this one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote we are about to take is the clearest proof of the hypocrisy, the ideological extremism and the technological ignorance which are fuelling the environmentalism of the left. the exclusion of nuclear energy investments from the european taxonomy is a climate-warming choice, since nuclear does not emit co2 into the air. it is also hypocritical to exclude investment in extracting gas from european fields, because it forces us to buy it from the united states, algeria, qatar and russia, thus keeping the balance of global emissions unchanged, or even increasing them, since gas-fired power stations would replace coal-fired power stations, which emit three times as much co2 into the air. and i 'll tell you something . i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we take a map in hand, we see that enlargement to the balkans seems inevitable from a geopolitical point of view, and yet the summit on the balkans on 23 june was a failure. none of the countries waiting today has seen substantial progress, and to the great disappointment of all the leaders the european union has failed to deliver on its promises to the western balkans. the question naturally arises: what is the direction of european foreign policy? we are opening up the enlargement of two countries like ukraine and moldova on the eastern side, but we have not paid enough attention to what is happening in our centre. leaving a vacuum at the borders of our space, if not even within ourselves, inevitably leaves a free field for other actors. in order to respond to the enlargement process in the balkans, we must first ask ourselves who we are and what we want to do tomorrow. to give a serious, clear, decisive answer, but without deceiving anyone.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european council of 23 and 24 june took a number of important decisions, as the enlargement process, which had been stalled for years, finally got off the ground. the fact that the heads of state or government have granted candidate status to ukraine and moldova is an important symbolic political message which i hope will play a role in promoting peace and security as soon as possible. only peace can bring the solution to the need to stop more innocent people dying, to stop more destruction and victims, to stop millions of women and children having to flee. however, nomination does not yet constitute membership. there is a lot of work to be done in the meantime, as the commission has made it clear that the accession process will be based on the same criteria for everyone. one of the conditions for ukraine's candidacy is that national minorities living in the country are guaranteed minority rights, language rights, education rights, and a new minority law. transcarpathian hungarians have always been loyal citizens of ukraine, they have supported eu integration, so i am confident that ukraine's eu membership will also promote the rights of transcarpathian hungarians.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the last european council ended with lights and shadows. the decision to continue supporting ukraine alongside moldova on its path to eu membership is a good one, but more courage is needed. our economy is at war, households are struggling to pay bills and food, businesses are also struggling to cope with the rise in the price of raw materials. i mean, we need new and urgent measures. we have been proposing for months a ceiling on the price of gas, an indispensable tool to protect us against runaway inflation, as the g7 also said a few days ago. we could also consider using a copy of the sure programme to support those countries which help citizens and businesses pay less expensive bills. however, europe must emerge stronger from this situation. a great european, václav havel, wrote that what is needed in politics is the sensitivity to know when, where, how and to whom to say things. i hope that the new czech presidency will be able to take up its legacy and build a new and cohesive europe.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, as is often the case, we are not entirely satisfied with the council's conclusions. the recognition of the status of candidate countries for ukraine and moldova is certainly an important message of unity and closeness, but the same cannot be said for two countries which have been candidates for a long time, such as albania and north macedonia, which once again see their rightful ambitions ignored. the european union must be a symbol of reliability, security and stability, and this is more important than ever at this moment in history. and that applies not only to these countries, but also to our citizens. we must therefore take exceptional and urgent measures to tackle the energy price problem which is destabilising our economy. the stubborn opposition of some member states to the proposal put forward by italy and other countries to set a ceiling on the price of gas does not meet the expectations of european households and businesses. we need a breakthrough to counter speculation, so let us continue on the path set by repowereu and create the conditions to become truly independent from russia's fossil fuels.
(the president cut off the speaker's ear) ... its conclusions as hypocritical and hostile to the citizens of the european union. germany's economic engine is being shut down by the far-reaching sanctions imposed on russia. the whole eu is plunging into a deep recession. the eu sanctions do not harm russia, but the member states do. gasoline and gas become unaffordable for citizens and businesses. there are more and more food shortages. ukraine is now receiving 9 billion euros and full military support, but our citizens are suffering from hunger and cold. and it's all because of a war that's not ours, no matter how bad it is over there. so de-escalate, stop the sanctions, stop the military and financial support to ukraine, stop the admission to nato and the eu. start de-escalating, start working with russia to find a solution. that's what the citizens want.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council has had a contradictory outcome. on the one hand, he condemned the violence of the russian army and the use of gas to finance putin's war, on the other hand, he postponed until next autumn the possibility of introducing a ceiling on the price of gas, thus allowing putin to sell less but to earn more. a year ago the price of gas was 18 euros, yesterday it was 170 euros per megawatt hour. this is a dramatic situation for businesses and households, but one which is obviously convenient for some european governments, and which is the same contradiction that makes ukraine's application for membership of the european union official, but betrays the ukrainian government's request not to exclude gas and nuclear energy from the taxonomy of energy sources in the vote we are about to vote on. never before has common sense been so necessary in geopolitical choices, never before has, on the contrary, irrationality and hypocrisy seemed to prevail.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european investment bank certainly deserves credit for being at the forefront of the response to the covid crisis. the eib, through a support programme focused on the sectors most affected by the pandemic, has provided key support to businesses that have been particularly hard hit by the effects of the crisis. the call for measures to introduce new financial instruments to promote accessibility for the agricultural sector and young farmers is also to be welcomed. on the other hand, i think that some criticisms should be made. the report calls on the eib to give priority, through its lending activities, to social, green and sustainable projects. the text also calls on the eib to support the achievement of climate neutrality by 2050 in order to align its actions with the european green deal. the emphasis on the eib's role as the eu's climate bank at a time when we are faced with skyrocketing energy costs and high energy bills seems almost out of place, considering that the eib's objectives should include fighting youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, which paradoxically seem to be left behind in favour of the energy transition.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank you all for this very fruitful debate. as we can see, the war in ukraine, this tragedy is dominating our life and also our debates. as president hoyer put it, what we are doing today is our testament for the future, and of course, it is our duty to do our part as a member of the european parliament, as a member of the commission or as members of the eib, as the main investment arm of european union. i very much appreciated the emphasis in the report, madam commissioner, on the word ‘coordination’, and i think it is very crucial for our success in the future. and also thank you for defending cohesion policy, because now everybody is taking from that. i would like to thank you all for the contribution. i know that despite all the challenges you took this duty to be an important pillar for the reconstruction in ukraine. and i really think that it will be a very hard and important task. i wish you success on focusing on the main priorities such as climate change, environment and innovation, skills, infrastructure, small and medium—sized enterprises, cohesion, of course, and development.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, members of the european parliament, our values and democratic processes are constantly under threat from those who fear democracy, transparency and responsibility. the recent russian aggression against ukraine has confirmed just how far that fear can go. this is, therefore, a very timely debate, and i would like to thank you for inviting the council to take part. fundamental rights and freedoms, political and media pluralism, the rule of law and free, fair and transparent elections are key elements of democracies, and we must scrupulously protect them from any hostile foreign interference. that is why the czech presidency decided to make the resilience of democratic institutions one of its key priorities. any interference in our political processes is unacceptable, particularly in the current geopolitical climate, and also in the run-up to the 2024 european parliament elections. the tactics used to exert foreign influence are multifaceted and include covert donations and loans to political parties, coordinated disinformation actions, spreading false narratives, and elite capture or co—optation. at present, russia is trying in particular to influence our political decision-making and to interfere with the information space in europe and beyond. in short, foreign interference can be overcome only by decisive action by all relevant stakeholders. the council takes these varying trends very seriously and is actively seeking to implement an operational, legal and political framework to make our democratic systems more resilient. i would like to focus on two areas of work: first, the financing of political parties, and secondly, a coordinated response to hybrid campaigns. the proposal for a recast of the regulation on the statute and the funding of the european political parties and european political foundations remains one of the priorities of the czech presidency. the regulation intends to increase the transparency of the main financial flows. citizens are entitled to know where financing received by the parties, who are supposed to represent them, comes from. the proposal also states that participation in the governance and financing of european political parties should be limited to members from european union countries in order to minimise the risk of foreign interference. the current context justifies such precautions. of course, this does not prevent the european political parties from continuing to cooperate with their political partners beyond eu borders. the council is ready to start negotiations with parliament on the basis of the partial general approach we adopted in march. i am sure we will find common ground so that the new legislation can enter into force in time for the next european parliament elections. as regards hybrid threats, the council has just approved conclusions which, from june onwards, establish a policy framework for a coordinated eu response. it is a significant achievement that shows that we are well aware of the significance of the challenges in front of us. the council also started to work on conclusions on foreign information, manipulation and interference which, when approved, will clearly signal our will to cooperate with our partners both in our neighbourhood and beyond to counter this threat. as a next step, the council will develop the eu hybrid toolbox to maximise the tools already available at european level, and also to open the door to tools that could make us stronger, safer and better prepared. possible restrictive measures are not excluded here. the toolbox will also allow us to systematically work on enhancing resilience of the eu and our partners. the czech presidency will work very intensively on this toolbox from the very beginning. it is an important step that will enable the eu to tackle the issue of foreign interference more broadly and with a level of ambition that matches the challenge.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, minister bek, honourable members, thank you very much for organising this debate. democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are the foundations on which the european union is built. democracy is a core european value which needs to be nurtured and protected. the russian unjustified invasion of ukraine is a war against democracy. russia has tried for years to destabilise ukraine and take away from its people the aspiration for democracy. they failed and have now moved to the next stage with such brutal invasion. this highlights once more the need for prompt actions to strengthen the resilience of our democracies and address vulnerabilities. russian right—wing extremist groups have been known to have links to european groups, and there have been reports of russia funding and training right—wing extremists, individuals and groups in eu member states. the russian invasion of ukraine offered violent right—wing extremist movements an opportunity to create new rhetorical connections with pre—existing divisive narratives and to exploit them with the aim of boosting anti—european sentiments. the war has also had an impact on the extreme left and anarchist—wing infosphere. its narratives attract the attention of militants and focus on crucial issues related to the nature and logic of the war. the commission is working with the member states who have the key competences in these measures, to tackle the threat of violent extremism in the eu. we are doing this, for instance, via europol, which is in close contact with authorities and partner agencies in the member states, to continuously exchange information and gather intelligence to assess terrorist and right—wing extremist threats. while the funding and governance of the national parties remains a competence of the eu member states, the eu has the competence to regulate european political parties. one way of exercising influence on the european parties is via funding. as you recall, the commission has recently put forward a recast proposal of the regulation on european political parties and foundations. our proposal contains strong safeguards against foreign interference – for example, very strict rules on donations, which would be totally forbidden if coming from outside the eu. this being said, in the current political context, the commission considers that it is important to send a strong political message of support and encouragement to those political parties outside the eu, which are often in the opposition to tough regimes and fight for democracy and human rights under very difficult circumstances. for them, belonging to a european political party and receiving its support internationally is important. finally, defending our democracies includes defending the foundations on which it stands, such as media freedom, open discourse and informed decisions by voters. and we are acting on all fronts. foreign information, manipulation and interference, including disinformation, takes many shapes, shades and dimensions. it is much more than the battle of narratives. as we speak, russia is engaged in systematic and coordinated global information, manipulation and disinformation campaigns that, for example, blame the western sanctions for the worsening global food security situation. we cannot stand still on this. we need to continue our strong cooperation with all our multilateral and bilateral partners to ensure that the following message reaches global audiences: the sole responsibility lies with putin’s regime. the high representative with his service, the european external action service, in close cooperation with the commission and the member states, is also developing the eu’s toolbox to tackle foreign information, manipulation and interference, including to impose costs on the perpetrators. this covers the entire spectrum, from situational awareness to resilience—building, regulation and diplomatic responses, as well as responses from the common foreign and security policy. in addition, as part of the latest eu sanctions package, we are suspending the broadcasting activities in the eu of additional three russian state—owned outlets. the russian government continues to use such outlets to manipulate information and promote disinformation about the invasion of ukraine with the aim of destabilising russia’s neighbouring countries, the eu and its member states. let me make a point here. russia does not pick one or another side of the opinion spectrum to support; it stands on both sides, as it is division, and chaos and instability it seeks to nurture in our societies and in the world. we shouldn’t allow ourselves to agree to that aim and actively seek a civilised dialogue without giving into extremist rhetoric and tactics. thank you for your attention, and i look forward to the debate.
the s&d group has been very active in the debate on the future of the european union, and we are very much aware of the fact that the european union is not only a political group, but also a political group. a trip, however, as stated by the embassy itself, paid for by the russians to allow the sanctions to be circumvented. matteo salvini has therefore tried to build a channel of dialogue with the regime of vladimir putin, in the shadow of the italian government led by mario draghi. this is what emerged a few weeks ago and follows events which have yet to be clarified, even in the courts, which saw, a few years ago, the league and other political parties, in the case of the league through mr savoini, entertain relations on several occasions with the entourage of vladimir putin. it is important to speak about this here and to denounce the seriousness of this because these are very clear cases of interference, interference in our democracies. in fact, in the weeks since the aggression against ukraine, russia has been building a channel of communication, a parallel diplomacy, which is infiltrating our institutions through the stupid and grave complicity of sectors of the right. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must condemn all this and parliament must condemn it, because interference, meddling and misinformation are enemies of democracy and no one can afford ambiguity in these matters. clear action is needed, for example on the flow of money to politics, as we have repeatedly said in the special committee on foreign interference. we must be very careful to identify those among us who, through lobbying, are pursuing opaque interests, interests which have nothing to do with the indispensable value of dialogue between peoples, but which instead help dictators.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would not like this debate to be triggered by the obsession that some members of the italian democratic party have with my party, the lega, and its leader, matteo salvini. so, not words, but irrefutable data. according to votewatch, an analysis of votes in the european parliament shows that the democratic party and the five star movement have the most pro-russian positions among italians. whereas, according to this research, as a league delegation we voted in 83% of cases for positions condemning russia. facts, these are facts, not words. i would also like to remind this house that it was the current secretary of the democratic party, enrico letta, who was then president of the council, who signed all the major energy agreements between italy and russia, effectively linking our country to moscow for the supply of gas. i was personally with a delegation from this house in washington, at the white house, on 24 february, when russian troops attacked ukraine. the world has changed since that damned day and both in italy and in europe the league has voted for all, i say all measures and supported the ukrainian people in favour of unity also of the west. are you accusing us of something? i am sure that your accusations are intended to forget that you are the heirs of the italian communist party which glorified the kremlin, and when stalin was in the kremlin. and even today some of you appear in the squares with the soviet red star. because you don't want to talk to us about the real problems that we have today, about the bills, about inflation and the price of gasoline, about how to lower taxes. so, colleagues, friends of the pd, get out of your head your obsession with salvini and the league and say something leftist, your voters will thank you for it.
madam president, i am literally shocked by what i’ve heard here today. are you really proposing to restrict the political activity of parties which democratically represent european citizens in their national dimension? since when has the eu taken over, by totalitarian control, the political line of member states’ national parties? what we are discussing today is a dangerous and disturbing drift towards a deeply antidemocratic scenario with the false claim of protecting democracy. but doing this, we not only repress freedom of expression and freedom of opinion, but we deny the fundamental principle of democratic representation. if national governments don’t formally declare a state of war with russia, there is no reason and no legal basis to forbid or restrict any political diplomatic relationship at the national level with russian interlocutors. the majority of italian people do not support the ban to commercial, energetic and political relationship with russia, and they definitely have the right to be represented in any field of political action. that’s it.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when the wise man points to the moon, the fool looks at his finger. if we adopt demagogic solutions, we risk making a critical situation worse. on the other hand, good policy, good policy, not ideological policy, does not pursue public opinion but, on the contrary, manages to act on structural problems and to criticize itself, particularly on years of energy policies that have been proven wrong. we cannot deny that the european rules on the functioning of the energy and gas markets have turned the price factor into a madhouse, forcing governments to go into debt to prevent companies from closing down, and all this without having any certainty about what will happen to the stability pact. and above all, it must be clear that the objectives must be greater energy independence on the one hand and the rejection of austerity policies on the other. i have listened carefully to your speech, commissioner, but i wonder: if we tax the extra profits, what do we do with the losses? do we tax them? as far as the green deal is concerned, i think that the plant should be reviewed, also in the light of what has been happening to prices in recent months. finally, i think that price caps are a good idea, but the bargaining power for now is in the hands of the seller and not the buyer. so, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the union must be attractive for investment and not become the object of new taxes.
mr president, commissioner, minister, the decision taken by the council to postpone the signing of the agreement is really difficult to accept and i can only regret that my country, france, was not able to sign it during its presidency. i wish the new presidency great courage and self-sacrifice in doing so. at a time when the world is going through a meta-crisis and health, food, environmental and geopolitical crises are colliding, with all that this implies about the vulnerability of many populations, it is time to give all these countries and all these populations the means of food autonomy. we must also consider the suspension of debt servicing or the common framework for the restructuring of the debt of the poor countries. as regards the environment, the post-cotonou agreement must be seen in the context of the fight against global warming so that their territories do not become uninhabitable. we need to rethink our relationship with developing countries and we need to rethink our partnership models and be more listening and more supportive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament has repeatedly stressed the need to consider relations with the african continent as strategic, relations which also require a change of course, from development aid to a genuine partnership, free from any form of neo-colonial exploitation. the new partnership agreement signed with the organisation of african, caribbean and pacific states puts trade and political relations with 79 countries in the area in a new context, reinforcing important elements such as the fight against inequalities, respect for human rights, and greater involvement of parliaments and civil society. a very advanced agreement, which has been the subject of a disgraceful rearguard battle by the hungarian government for more than a year, bothered by the prospect of illegal migration channels, an absolutely instrumental argument. once again, this is blackmail based on the obsession with migration, on fear, on the idea of a closed europe, of a fortress europe, blackmail that is unacceptable and must be returned to the sender, particularly in the context of the health and food crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, water scarcity is bringing all our territories to their knees, causing enormous damage to an already struggling economy. in lombardy alone, losses of €500 million are already being reported and, also because of the energy surges, companies in the sector will have greater burdens in managing harvests and producing fruit, which will inevitably be passed on to consumers. however, this dramatic situation was largely foreseeable, but europe did not run for cover in time. instead of listening to the alarms raised for years by the agricultural world, the european commission has chosen to consult with greta thunberg, welcoming her to this very house with all the honours of a head of state. when it was necessary to finance water-saving infrastructure and technologies, this house was busy debating roma rights and the measurement of the seaweed. finally, when europe finally decided to take action on climate, it set itself ideological and unrealistic objectives, which were finally called into question yesterday in this house, thanks also to the vote of the league. it is time for europe to change course. we need exceptional support measures to combat drought in the worst affected areas, but above all we need to open up more to sustainable energy sources such as hydrogen and nuclear energy, in order to safeguard our strategic autonomy and not to contribute to the economic expansion of china, which is already the largest producer of greenhouse gases in the world.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that the drought does not also dry up the budgets and competitiveness of our farms, a vital sector for the economy, not only in italy. this can only happen if europe plays a decisive role in finding structural solutions to ensure food self-sufficiency at community level. climate change and the resulting drought of recent years is not just an italian problem, but involves other european countries and therefore needs to be solved by joint action by the union. we therefore ask ourselves what measures are being taken in europe to deal with the serious problem of drought, both from an economic and structural point of view.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report on better lawmaking, which is before us today for our approval in plenary, is of fundamental importance in order to increase the transparency, clarity and also the adequacy of european legislation, for the benefit of citizens and businesses. in its role as co-legislator, this parliament has a duty to rationalize and simplify the legislation it helps to adopt. high-quality legislation ensures legal certainty and has a direct impact on the competitiveness of the european union, its territories and its businesses. we need a more ambitious approach to remove obstacles and red tape, to the benefit of the public interest and to the faster implementation of legislation that affects national economic and social realities. with our vote today, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling on the commission and the member states to make the legislative process and the system for transposing laws more accessible, more proportionate and more transparent. we face many challenges but also opportunities on our way to a stronger and more united europe. the effective application and enforcement of the law in the union can and must be our priority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are the only continent on which the forest area has increased. unfortunately, this is mainly due to the abandonment of agricultural land and depopulation, leaving the way for a forest that produces more co2 than it can absorb. we don't need this. we need healthy forests that improve our well-being and help us achieve climate neutrality goals. if we want healthy forests, we cannot forget the people who live and work in these areas. we must take account of the economic side of forests, which must act as a steering wheel for rural development. we must focus on the sustainable production of wood, including for construction. complementary activities, such as certain types of farming or breeding, must be developed. but to do that, we need real investment, not the crumbs that have come so far. and let's not make the mistake of keeping gas and nuclear in the taxonomy, and excluding biomass, which is a primary source of renewable energy if produced sustainably.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every year some 8.8 million hectares of forest land are lost worldwide. good forest management and protection policies must be adopted which are shared and recognised by non-eu countries, so as to reduce deforestation and forest degradation. it is equally important that the objectives of this regulation are pursued by minimising the impacts on businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and on local communities. we would therefore have preferred a transitional period of 24 months to comply with the new rules. we cannot accept the demonization of certain sectors either. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's forestry sector is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. we must remember that any ban imposed will lead to the diversion of the same products to other markets, such as china and india, creating disparities between producers. instead, we focus on building partnerships, sustainable development of local communities and farming methods.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy efficiency is crucial to reducing europe's dependence on unreliable suppliers such as russia. however, to be effective, energy savings in homes, industry and energy production must be accompanied by realistic targets, especially when it comes to the upgrading and decarbonisation of public and private buildings. if we really want to ensure that no one is left behind, we must look beyond the mere energy saving and turn to the pragmatic solutions that have been demonized for years by the green ideology of this house. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that this debate will help to revive, without ideology, quick and workable solutions to protect businesses and families in preparation for this winter. our citizens can't wait any longer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching 25 september, the day of the italian elections. the subject of rising energy costs, high energy bills is the most frequently heard topic among citizens. we at the league are clear on this point: we expect europe to protect, just as it did during covid, with a shield, with real money, the italians who can't turn off the gas, the heating or the light or block the companies. at the same time, the attitude of the italian left, with letta's party and all its allies, who voted against italy by saying no to clean nuclear and no to gas in the european taxonomy, is scandalous. there are 400 reactors in operation worldwide and 55 under construction, from japan to the united states and france. in italy the situation is clear: on the one hand, there are those who say no to everything, which endangers italy's energy security, and on the other hand, there are those of us in the league who want to take our country into the future and into efficiency, with new nuclear plants that are safe and with zero emissions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, extreme weather events and natural disasters are becoming more frequent. in italy we have been witnessing waves of bad weather for some years now, which cause enormous damage: environmental damage with damaged trees, rivers and landscapes; economic damage, with entire crops destroyed and crops compromised, with businesses to be cleaned up, sometimes rebuilt in case of fires, and damage to citizens and families who have to bear the costs of these disasters. i still remember the vaia storm that hit my region, veneto, in 2018, destroying forests, biodiversity and entire communities that, with difficulty but dignity, managed to rise up and rebuild. not to mention the recent storm surges that have hit the coastline, causing great damage to coastal and beach areas. and this summer too, the drought contributed to the fires in friuli venezia giulia, damaging as much as 4 000 hectares of forest in the carso. in the face of this unpleasant new normal, the member states must be ready to intervene and europe must provide the appropriate instruments: prevention and landscape protection plans are needed, but also rapid response tools to ensure that civil protection and firefighters can handle these emergencies. climate change requires that mitigation and adaptation be the guiding principle of the european union's future policies, policies that must be tailored to nature and man, because it is not with fanatical environmental ideology that problems are tackled and solved.
mr president, commissioner schmit, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's vote on the minimum wage directive is historic, because it closes the legislative process of the first truly decisive european law on social europe, the labour law, in my view, most important in the last 70 years of our european history. i am deeply attached to this directive both because of my political history and because it represents the meaning of my mandate as a member of the european parliament. to see most of my amendments as part of this bill is indeed a source of pride and satisfaction. but the real challenge now is to implement it immediately and without hesitation in all the member states. we must put an end to labour poverty and unfair competition in the internal market linked to wage dumping. but not only: i believe that for countries like my own, italy, the minimum wage directive is fundamental not only to guarantee a living wage for everyone but also to ensure a fair wage, which must reflect the skills and professionalism acquired by each individual person who works. this is a subject which is very much on the minds of millions of young people who, because of their low wages, are often forced to emigrate because they are denied the right to economic independence.
mr president, commissioner schmit, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on adequate minimum wages is an important step towards improving the conditions of workers and combating poverty at work, and the league will support it. first, because it does not impose a statutory minimum wage on all member states; second, it does not oblige member states with a collective bargaining system which already meets the criteria laid down by the directive itself, such as italy. we are also confident that it will encourage relations between economic operators, trade unions or the social partners in general for collective bargaining and the elimination of pirate wage dumping contracts. it will also help to introduce objective criteria in the member states, where a legal minimum wage is already in place, to enable wages to be raised and to act as a deterrent to relocations, which leave behind jobs and economic and social ruin.
the president! - what? you guys! i welcome the adoption of minimum wage directives, but we must recognise that this is only a small first step towards social justice in all member states. this directive will not, on its own, help to bridge the huge gap between rich and poor and the unequal levels of pay in rich and poor european countries. for example, in my country, latvia, almost a quarter of all working families will not be able to pay all their bills this winter and will be at risk of bankruptcy. but we must not forget that the pensioners, the disabled, the unemployed are in a worse situation. we must therefore continue to work and consider, commissioner, that the next step is the adoption of the minimum income directive, as envisaged in the guidelines on employment and social affairs in the european union that we are currently working on.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with this directive the european parliament is definitely taking another step towards a more social, fairer and more united europe. while respecting the legal traditions of each member state, this text which we shall adopt tomorrow will establish a common framework for bringing social convergence upwards. at a time when workers are being hit hard by inflation and rising prices, we must ensure that everyone can make a decent living from their work. and that is really the aim of this text: that all workers in europe have a minimum wage that is commensurate with the cost of living in their country and that allows them to live with dignity. so voting for this text means also saying no to the phenomenon of the working poor in europe.
mr president, dear commissioner, what we are voting on tomorrow, dear friends, is simply a revolution – a revolution in the name of social justice, dignity and decency for workers. today, inflation is skyrocketing. the purchasing power of families is falling down and social tensions are exploding. a directive on minimum wages is precisely what we need. europe has come first, and now in each country, salaries must be adequate to the costs of living. we recognise the importance of the most representative of trade unions, and we encourage member states to increase the coverage of collective bargaining. this is a historic moment. we believe that social rights are more important than the ups and downs of the economy. we believe that the living conditions of millions of workers are more important than partisan interests. and we believe that the younger workers, the most precarious ones, their hopes have to be at the centre of our political action. this is not high politics. this is practical problem solving. it is our concrete step toward a fairer and social europe.
in writing. the introduction of a european minimum wage directive is an important first step towards reducing unfair competition and wage dumping by eastern european countries in relation to our industries. it is also worth recalling that this directive will not impose a minimum wage at european level or a minimum wage in the member states, which is prohibited by the treaties, but on the contrary it does not impose any obligation on italy. in fact, our country has a collective bargaining system which already meets the requirements of the directive, and is well above the 80% required by the text. consequently, this proposal will not involve any imposition by europe on italy, which will instead have to focus on fighting wage inequality and cutting the tax wedge and guaranteeing fair wages and a decent life, also in the light of the heavy inflationary wave under way.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur, but we are not here. i cannot hide my concern because i do not see in this text the sense of urgency that is bringing families and businesses to their knees and, despite the efforts of the rapporteur, the final text is reduced to a series of figures that do not take into account the post-pandemic context and the conflict in ukraine. my group has been denouncing the wrong direction for years: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but does this parliament not want to make a change? we are in favour of working towards a steady but gradual increase in renewable sources, but we must admit that these are intermittent and non-programmable sources and that the capacity for investment in europe has been brought to its knees by what has happened over the last two and a half years. and if europe doesn't understand that, we're not going anywhere.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the review of the renewable energy directive puts us in a very different geopolitical context from that of a year ago. we can today be consistent with what they said then: not many others in here can say the same. the increase in energy from renewable sources is an objective to be achieved as soon as possible, provided that it is combined with the objective of energy independence; provided that we do not trade dependence on russia for dependence on china; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is why i am not going to be voting for the report. we really want to do all this. but you?
in writing. at a time of ongoing conflict in ukraine, josep borrel reminds us of the importance of peace for the world. the situation in the taiwan strait, coupled with international and regional instability, is worrying, and china's behaviour is further escalating these tensions. therefore, in the context of this conflict, maintaining peace, stability and the status quo is crucial not only for the security of the taiwan strait, but also for the security of the world. the eu considers it extremely important to further deepen relations with taiwan. but there is no need to turn a blind eye to china's behavior. the constant military exercises, the violation of taiwan's airspace, or even the use of live ammunition that hit japan's exclusive economic zone is inexcusable and reprehensible. last but not least, it is important to remember that taiwan is a democratic island, and therefore it is up to the taiwanese people to decide how they want to live.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the eu's response to rising energy prices in europe (2022/2830 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for inviting me to speak on this crucial topic. the dramatic rise in energy prices is directly affecting both european households and companies, and is threatening the whole eu economy. this current energy market situation is very tense and has further deteriorated after the indefinite suspension of nord stream 1. gas prices are now out of control. to illustrate, in august, natural gas prices reached new records at eur 340 per megawatt hour, compared to eur 40 per megawatt hour a year ago. because of the rising cost of input fuels, benchmark electricity prices in europe have also surged by almost 300% in 2022. the current level of energy prices has pushed the inflation in the eurozone to 9.1% in august. it is the ninth consecutive month to set the record rate for inflation in europe, with consumer prices rising steadily since november 2021. moreover, recent heatwaves and droughts across europe – the issue i had the opportunity to discuss with you this morning – have hampered the eu’s ability to make full use of our hydroelectric facilities. at the same time, the capacity of some nuclear facilities has been temporarily reduced. also, the use of coal is facing problems due to logistical issues. under those circumstances, the gas price crisis has become an electricity price crisis. furthermore, due to high energy prices, companies across europe, from big industrial groups to medium-sized enterprises, are struggling to cope with the situation, and some are already halting their productions. this alarming trend can have potentially disruptive consequences for our economy. over the last couple of months, several solutions have been proposed and some have even been implemented, both at european and national level. these include, among others, the emergency plan for filling gas reserves at 80% by 1 november 2022, and the eu-wide gas consumption reduction measures adopted by the council on 5 august 2022 as a matter of urgency. since these have not been sufficient to mitigate the current crisis, further immediate, implementable solutions are needed to protect our consumers, our market operators, but also our own internal market from this excessive volatility of gas and electricity prices. last friday, the extraordinary energy council discussed concrete, tangible and immediate emergency solutions. there was a novel agreement that urgent eu-wide measures are needed, but at the same time national specificities, specificities must be respected. member states mandated the commission to propose specific short-term emergency measures, including capping the revenues of companies that are producing electricity with low costs, decoupling gas and electricity prices, or even putting a price cap on gas imports, increasing liquidity on the electricity market and coordinated demand reduction measures for electricity. i appreciate that the commission’s services followed up quickly on some of the elements of last week’s ministerial debate, with proposals on electricity savings and on capping of revenues from marginal companies to be presented tomorrow. we will be expecting further proposals from the commission on other measures i mentioned as soon as possible. the emergency interventions should remain temporary, preserve the fundamentals of the internal energy market and cross-border trade, ensure the eu’s security of supply, alleviate pressure on customers, and be consistent with the current efforts to reduce gas demand and the objectives of the european green deal whilst taking into account national specificities. in this spirit, we are looking forward to looking into the details of the proposals the commission will present tomorrow. let me assure you that the council will examine this swiftly. our ambition is to find agreement on the first emergency measures among the member states already before the cold season starts. that is why the presidency decided to convene another extraordinary energy council meeting with the aim of adopting the necessary emergency measures at the end of september. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, good evening everybody. today’s discussion is a vital one. tensions are high across all energy markets, and the russian war against ukraine has a big role in it. we have a security of supply challenge for gas. gazprom just two weeks ago announced that supplies through nordstrom 1 would not resume until the sanctions are lifted. and in this way, russia has dropped the act and has made it absolutely clear: they are using energy as a weapon. at the same time, much has been done this year to untie europe from russia by diversifying, reducing and investing, we have diversified away from russian fossil fuel sources. we adopted in july a coordinated gas—demand reduction plan, and our joint storage policy is working: storage is today 84% full. we are investing at a fast pace in home—grown renewable energies. yet, as russia is fuelling tensions on the gas market, we are seeing ripple effects on the electricity market. climate change also plays a part here. the summer has resulted in less hydro and cold—transport issues, combined with high temperatures and maintenance. this has also led to lower than usual nuclear power generation. the perfect conditions have been created for the spike in electricity prices that we are witnessing. i do not need to tell you that this is hitting our citizens hard. households, especially the most vulnerable, small and medium companies, industry, are struggling to make ends meet. our competitiveness is hampered and volatility is reaching financial markets. more and more energy companies are looking at increased margin goals or are required to post higher collaterals in cash to underpin their operations. the end result is a liquidity problem. this is not sustainable. last week, president von der leyen set out elements for a coordinated emergency intervention at eu level. and tomorrow we will be bringing forward a proposal that tackles these issues. let me briefly tell you what are the areas for action there. first we need to take a serious look at our electricity demand in a smart way. we will propose to reduce electricity demand to bring more balance to the market. in particular, we will propose a mandatory target for member states to reduce consumption in peak price hours, to relieve stress on electricity generation, to reduce gas consumption and to have a positive effect on prices. we will give member states the flexibility to design their measures as they see fit. this leads me to the second measure. today, high cost—margin producers, normally gas companies, often set the final price for wholesale electricity. a company that produces electricity with lower costs would benefit massively from the high prices on the market, resulting in enormous revenues. final consumers do not get the benefits in their bills of the growing share of lower—cost technologies like renewables. we want to introduce a correction to the market rules that will address this issue. we are proposing an eu—wide limit to the remuneration for low—carbon technologies. in this way they would receive only the difference between the cost of production and the cap. the rest would generate revenues for member states to support vulnerable consumers. and in this way, without altering the market functioning, we can correct it and make it work better for consumers and business. the framework will allow national schemes that are designed in the same spirit to continue. these are exceptional circumstances and we believe all energy sectors should contribute. oil, gas and coal companies are also making huge, unexpected profits. so we are considering a solidarity contribution on these companies. the revenues should be put to good use, helping the vulnerable industry or reinvested in cleaner technologies. finally, there is need to address the liquidity problem arising in the financial markets for energy products. these are not challenges where we can intervene through regulation. what we can do is to work together with esma and securities market regulators on technical standards related to the eligibility of collateral and margins and on possible ways to limit excessive volatility. we will also launch a survey on the temporary state—aid crisis framework to see how we can streamline procedures or expand the scope for state guarantees. honourable members, these are the main ideas we are working on. there is no magic wand to bring prices back to the pre-war levels, but with a targeted emergency package, we can ease the pressure on prices and help citizens. i am looking forward to continuing to assess whether other more intrusive measures could lower prices while guaranteeing supply, or not. while a gas price cap on russian pipeline imports would further address the current manipulation of supplies and prices, more work is needed to assess the possible adverse impacts on some member states. and we are also deepening our analysis on how a horizontal cap on all gas imported into europe could work, and its implications. the commission is also ready to kick off work on a complementary eu price index for lng. the current pricing benchmark for gas, the ttf, is a pipeline index and no longer properly reflects the real supply and demand of the market. in parallel, the longer—term view hasn’t gone away. we are working intensely on our repowereu goals and on bringing the energy platform to the next stage. we kick—started the preparation of the reform of the electricity market for early next year, and tomorrow this parliament will have important votes on the renewable energy directive and the energy efficiency directive. more renewables and efficiency is the way to go: let’s work together, and with the council, to get these two pieces of legislation adopted as soon as possible. let’s fast-track our clean energy transformation. in this tough moment, we must be confident that we came a long way on the road to repowereu, and with this determination and unity we will prevail. i am looking forward to hearing your views and suggestions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would say to the commissioner that when the commission took office three years ago, it promised europeans a market that works for people. although not perfect, the european energy market in normal times has provided europeans with accessible and affordable electricity and gas. but let’s be clear, a tyrant does not play by the rules of the market. a tyrant uses gas as a weapon. putin uses gas as a weapon, trying to divide us by hurting our citizens. so now is the time to step up to protect vulnerable consumers, smes and industries who are suffering. therefore, the epp welcomes the speedy presentation of the commission’s legislative proposals – about which more tomorrow, i understand – less than a week after the energy ministers mandated it to do so. because let’s not beat around the bush, this winter will be very hard. if we are to stay the course, we need to ensure a winter of solidarity in europe, asking those who profit excessively to help support those who suffer most and to help member states, as provided for in the security of gas supply regulation. but solidarity and responsibility need to go hand-in-hand. you cannot keep blocking the needed interconnection between france and the iberian peninsula. you cannot ask your neighbours for gas while closing down perfectly safe nuclear power plants. such national decisions have a major impact on all member states. this is why for the euro we have the stability and growth pact. we clearly need a similar stability pact when it comes to energy. let president macron show spain and portugal that he is the true european that he claims to be. let germany do whatever it takes to keep open all its domestic energy production, including nuclear. the answer to this crisis should be european, or it will not work.
i am pleased to be able to say that the commission has taken the initiative in this area. i want to say that i welcome the way in which certain provisions of this package have been adopted, and that you have announced some of them to us this evening, and that you have touched on subjects which until now have been considered blasphemous. the fact that you talk about a principle of solidarity, that you talk about the fact that those who produce at much lower costs than market costs have to pay a fair share of the price are things that i welcome. i cannot, however, welcome the fact that, with regard to gas, there are very few things that you have said and there are even fewer things that i think we will have an answer to in the next period. commissioner, in order to tell people that they have to tighten their belts and consume 15% less electricity, consume less gas, we cannot tell them at the same time that at the gas hub in amsterdam the transactions are secret. we cannot tell companies that they have to reduce their activity, that this is the situation, energy is even less and more difficult to access, but at the same time, the profits of those who operate on the gas market from the ttf hub in amsterdam are secret. if we keep this issue and do not understand that being solidarity when times are tough - this war has put us in a difficult situation - it cannot be difficult only for the one who is at home and pays the bill with great difficulty, as long as we promised that no one will ever be forced to choose between paying the bill or buying medicine or food and that we will not put the industry of the european union to the ground, we never said this, that people - we said the opposite - that they will have guaranteed jobs and that we will support them so that these jobs are well paid. today, which eu firm makes it through this period is considered lucky and coincidental. for this reason, i ask that these measures you take take with these things in mind and end this speculation at the amsterdam gas hub. uncoupling gas from the electricity market and you will have support in the european parliament and especially from the people of the european union.
in the name of the id group. madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, italy is about to go to the polls and just a few days ago i was a guest on a television programme: in connection with this, merchants in the historic centre of vicenza threatened to put the ballot papers in the ballot boxes instead of the ballot papers. we are talking about the heart of the italian north-east, one of the traditional economic engines of europe. this is a sign of the energy crisis and a strong signal of distrust in politics. so what are we doing to solve what is becoming effectively the lehman brothers of energy? it is not helped by the fact that the energy council on friday was a non-issue. it does not help the absurd war on gas that was fought until yesterday, because it has curbed investment; it doesn't help that the answer coming is called austerity. the most worrying aspect is the total underestimation of the social emergency that will unfold in europe in the coming weeks. the failure to implement the technically very complicated gas price ceiling is continuing the hunt for the next villain, while the leaders of the unsuspecting parties which make up the majority of this parliament are looking to the profits of their country's gas suppliers. so we need more energy, we need more gas, we need to slow down on the ecological transition and, above all, we need the humility to admit that europe has been so wrong about energy policies.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. let's be honest, fellas, the war in europe has exposed many of the weaknesses in our energy policy. and it's not just our dependence on russian raw materials, it's the weakness of our legislative solutions. the commission notes that the market for electricity is not a market for electricity, but for electricity. the annual control report (acr) tells us that the model is perfect, but unfortunately only on paper. it only works well in a lab, in artificial conditions, but in the real, imperfect world, these mechanisms are completely unadapted to the situation of shortages and galloping prices, causing an energy crisis. that's just one example. another example is the ets, and that's why we should change it, instead of artificially driving the market by setting a price cap on gas. but when it comes to russian gas, we should fight here, in this parliament, for a total embargo on that gas. and one last note about norway, our partner, who so often teaches us about european values in poland. you have a great opportunity in norway to show european solidarity and give up your income.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the (introduction to speech with microphone off) ... the truth. the question is: will the commission and the council ensure that no pensioner has to freeze at home in winter? that my baker next door won't go bankrupt because of the high electricity and gas prices, nor the small craftsman or the thuringian glass manufacture? if you are in favour of this, if you are in favour of this, then please do not come to us with a revenue ceiling of 200 euros per megawatt hour, because that will not solve the problems. that's the point. we need to rethink the electricity and energy market. we need a rabid tax on excess profits, effective price caps for gas and electricity in general, an eu-wide ban on power cuts and compensation, yes full compensation for people for their extra costs due to the price explosion for which they are not responsible, which they did not cause. energy is a public good, a fundamental right, which does not belong on the trading table of the stock exchange. we need a shield for citizens, not for greedy multinationals.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the cost of energy for europeans has almost tripled in the last year. but the most absurd thing is that such figures depend not only on war and scarcity but also and above all on speculation in the international market. then we should intervene by taxing the extra profits of fossil fuel corporations: but we need to use the proceeds for a new emergency fund, an energy recovery fund to benefit struggling households and small and medium-sized businesses. above all, as the five star movement has been calling for for months now, we must find the courage to impose, without delay, a ceiling on the price of gas, to implement joint purchases and, once this crisis is over, we must consider the usefulness of an energy market such as that of amsterdam, which creates enormous profits for a few large multinationals and makes raw materials cost 10 or 20 times more than the ten-year contracts it should replace.
i have to say, madam president, the epp is concerned with three things. firstly, only a real and firm reduction in consumption would enable us to get through the winter and reduce our dependence on russia. secondly - and this is very realistic - any intervention must be assessed in terms of its advantages and disadvantages and its possible consequences. interventions in the price formation mechanism must never lead to higher gas consumption, as is the case in spain or in our great competitor in asia, where large economies have made these interventions which now lead to increased demand for gas in the markets. thirdly, we need to deepen the european internal market. it can't be that the infrastructure is priced into the high gas prices. we have the problem of lack of infrastructure between the iberian peninsula and france in europe. we have a decoupling of energy prices in eastern europe because the infrastructure is not connected to western europe. and i think before we can operate on prices, we need to put the signals we can put: infrastructure investment. the investeu programme must be much more geared to large investments. if we were to use investeu to show that we are willing to build interconnectors, to push forward gas and hydrogen infrastructure, then we would be setting price signals. and we have to be very careful that if we intervene too quickly, we don't actually increase consumption and then we compete internationally with asia and with countries that are signing longer-term gas contracts, 20 years. and if this cycle continues, that we create more demand through price intervention, then europe will not be the winner with a short-term gas perspective. so be careful and take a good look at what we want.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, europeans, our businesses and our citizens are being hit hard by an unprecedented rise in energy prices. you said emergency, you hammered emergency, minister. and of course, there is an urgent need to respond. the suggestions made by the commission last week are certainly in the right direction. the ambition of the concrete measures which the president will decide on will be discussed tomorrow. of course, smooth out the spikes in demand, mr. bek, of course. yes also to the fixing of a price ceiling for producers of low-cost energy, nuclear energy and renewable energy. yes, of course, to a solidarity contribution paid by the oil and gas companies which have been making huge profits for months now, billions of euros in profits with, of course, a reallocation to small and mediumsized enterprises, to the most precarious households, to the self-employed. we also expect the commission to come forward quickly with a sustainable solution, namely the decoupling of gas and electricity prices and charges. i conclude, madam president, because the second immediate step is to turn this crisis into an opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past in order to guarantee europeans, consumers and businesses energy at fair prices.
madam president, the first thing to recognize is that we have a social bomb on our hands, with wages falling massively when adjusted for inflation and with a power bill that many citizens will not be able to pay. intervention in the energy market and the extraordinary profits was something urgent for many months. we're late with it. nevertheless, the music that we are hearing from the commission's presentation tomorrow, i must say, is sounding good to us. if we are really going to force companies to put a cap on their revenue, to reinvest the excess of that revenue back into consumers to lower their electricity bill, and, if we are finally going to tax the windfall, that is certainly going in the right direction. and also, if you are going to use article 122 - as it seems you are going to use it - to put that tax in place, that is good news. now, we're going to want to discuss how that money is spent. that money has to be reversed into the citizens. and we have to go much further, because there are other sectors that are also making extraordinary, massive profits, particularly banking, which, with the decisions of the european central bank, is going to have extraordinary profits, which we will also have to start discussing. because at the end of the day, it's all about fairly sharing the costs of inflation.
i have to say, madam president, the measures which you can read about in this paper are at least very reminiscent of the crisis of the 1970s. if, 50 years later, these are your proposals for how to deal with this crisis, then all that can be said is that you should not be warning of a cold winter, but that you should be providing energy for the people of europe. this crisis, these energy prices, are entirely self-inflicted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we see that in vienna, a vienna that has been managed by the socialists for 40 years, will now need five to ten billion euros from the father state to supply two million people - this is one of the largest providers in austria - so that it can continue to exist. and i'm afraid that won't be the last provider to collapse in this crisis. then comes the smart energy saving solution. that's the approach in 2022. for years, energy policy has been on the wrong track: inefficient alternative energy producers, who simply cannot meet the demands we have today. and all over europe, green ministers are turning coal-fired plants back on, but not turning off nuclear plants. that's it for today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the escalation of energy prices in europe has certainly increased because of the russian invasion of ukraine, but it started earlier, in conjunction with the post-covid recovery, because of the financial speculation that the european energy market is chronically subject to. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the cost of living for businesses and households, but these will not be enough unless we have the courage to act on financial speculation. we must act upstream of the problem, not downstream. what are we supposed to do? everybody knows that. but not everyone wants to do it: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the price of gas is capped and that the price of electricity is decoupled. we must produce more energy from renewable sources, but also from fossil fuels, for as long as necessary, because energy independence is the precondition for political independence. it is as much about russia as it is about china. to err is human, to persevere is diabolical.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in italy the people are unable to pay their bills and the companies are closing down and laying off workers, which is worsening the crisis. why is that? because the bills are astronomical, unfair, insane in relation to the standard of living of italians and europeans. what is europe doing to help them? stuttering, he takes time, he loses time. but the crisis is not waiting for europe for long: we need a landmark investment to push clean energy sources, to free us from the violent blackmail of the cost of russian gas and beyond. and in the meantime, for the moment, we need bold choices, the will and the ability to react hard and render powerless those who today have the power to blackmail us. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is time for europe to act and show that it exists and to protect its citizens, its businesses and its environment, by taking concrete action to oppose this filth and to usher in a new era which, if it does not start today, may never start again.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank president von der leyen for the attention she has given to this house, because unlike many of my colleagues, she has been here from the beginning until now and i have to say that we have appreciated this, even as an opposition group and party. the world as it was will never be the same again. we also supported the sanctions. we must also take the time to ask ourselves what our responsibilities are, why we have come to have certain dependencies on russia and why we should avoid, as you said, having others in the future with regard to china, which are already quite relevant today. there are some unresolved issues that we need to address: the stability pact is one of them. we have a serious problem and a serious risk to competitiveness; we have a country, china -- and i'm going to go back to china -- that has impressive stocks of raw materials and rare earths and that's going to reopen 174 coal mines. you mentioned the italian ceramics sector, which pleased me: but that, for example, when we talk about trade, is one of the areas that has never been supported and defended by the union's trade policies. less rhetoric, more transparency and attention: the european union has always been a party to the peace process. let's also remember that emergency.
mr president what's going on here today is the 10th and last decade of the 10th witch hunt. i stood before you in 2013 during the debate on the tavares report, and since then i have been fighting against the unbridled campaign of hatred against our country, which is being built like a house of cards. the unfounded sargentini report has only raised the stakes with the article 7 procedure, and now you are asking for the withdrawal of eu funding. these false texts were all commissioned by the hungarian opposition, i.e. with the active participation of independent ngos and experts, and all are conceptual indictments. it is outrageous that those who have already suffered a devastating electoral defeat at home for a quarter of a century are using their international network of contacts to do everything possible to deprive hungary of the rightful eu financial resources. instead of the interests of the hungarian people, the teachers and the health workers. they're being betrayed. while constructive negotiations are taking place between the commission and the government, here the majority of the european parliament is again denouncing, and the source of the problem is a new dictate in the name of the rule of law. we hungarians thank you, we don't want any.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall not dwell on the long list of alleged violations. the previous speakers have well illustrated the tragic situation of millions of hungarian citizens who are victims of the autocratic regime of orbán, a regime which undermines the institutions in their depths and inevitably ends up by infringing the fundamental rights and freedoms of all european citizens. yes, because these violations go beyond the hungarian borders: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected. four years ago the european parliament had the foresight to initiate the article 7 procedure. and yet nothing has changed since then: in fact, some trends have actually worsened. how long must we wait for the commission and the council to make full use of the instruments available to defend our common values? the commission's inaction and the council's inaction are unjustified, we cannot tolerate further delays and, above all, we do not want to be complicit in the dismantling of the founding values of the european union. because that's what this is about.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament's resolution on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union contains passages which are, frankly, absurd. i read some of them. in the preamble, under (c), write: "the pandemic and the restrictive measures have led to an increase in racist incidents". in point (f) i read: "the health crisis has often been used as a pretext to attack minorities, including migrants and roma". i read in paragraph (e) that the roma continue to be one of the most vulnerable and oppressed groups in the european union, without ever mentioning, of course, that many communities have no intention of integrating. there is a chapter in which you argue that there is structural racism in europe and whole sections on the violations of the fundamental rights of migrants, in which you tell us that we must welcome more immigrants, that we are racists, that ngos that bring illegal aliens to europe are criminalized. basically you're saying that anyone who is against illegal immigration should be ashamed of themselves. this is absurd! you also speak, quite rightly, of the serious phenomenon of violence against women. but nothing - and i say nothing! - about the situation of women in many islamic communities, where they are forced to wear the veil, a symbol of submission, and are often deprived of many freedoms. nor does it say anything about the islamization of many european cities, with the spread of sharia law. in short, there is a lot of left-wing propaganda and a complete lack of a pragmatic, objective view of the various issues mentioned, namely the violation of fundamental rights. it is not surprising that citizens are losing faith in a european union which is so ideological.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i must congratulate mr lópez aguilar on his report, because it is very complete and accurate and it touches on all the problems of violations of fundamental rights in the european union. i agree that it is an inescapable task for european democracy to defend at all costs, in all circumstances and without exclusion, all violations of human rights, and i believe that this must be done with extreme courage, in particular by fighting against incitement to racial hatred, the persecution of linguistic minorities, the violation of freedom of the press and freedom of expression, even when these are put in place by a government that wants to join the european union, such as the ukrainian government, which has drawn up proscription lists on which european parliamentarians, such as the undersigned, and other colleagues are included. if we want to defend human rights, we must have the courage to do so at all times, under all circumstances, without fear and without looking anyone in the face.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the arrest of monsignor álvarez and some seminarians is just the latest in the persecutions carried out by the sandinista regime of daniel ortega. just like cuba, latin america is subject to a so-called left-wing democracy that has become a ruthless dictatorship over time. unfortunately, in the world we are still forced to witness situations with countries where the people are slaves of dictators: in words, defenders and guardians of social, human and economic rights, but in fact people like ortega: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the measures taken by the member states in the field of the common fisheries policy. this is happening today in nicaragua, in 2022, where reports of human rights violations are no longer counted. in recent times, the target has been the catholic church, whose members are arrested or persecuted for their faith. in nicaragua, between april 2018 and may 2022, religious were the victims of as many as 190 attacks; in the past year alone, the ortega regime has banned nearly 400 non-profit organizations, many of them linked to the catholic church, depriving them of their legal status. missionary sisters working with the poor who have been expelled from the country; priests in prison; non-profit organizations linked to the catholic church were suppressed. i imagine that if this had happened in any other country, everyone here would have mobilized in defense of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. do we still want to wait for a new martyr bishop to join the many that the latin american church, unfortunately, has recorded in the last century? i am thinking of monsignor romero in el salvador and i do not want to believe that anyone would want to reject this obvious parallelism just because, instead of a brutal military dictatorship, we are facing a brutal socialist dictatorship. in nicaragua, there are terrorists who have been fleeing justice for years. president ortega is protecting the italian terrorist alessio casimirri, who was implicated in the kidnapping and murder of former prime minister aldo moro and the murder of his bodyguards. the moro murder for us italians is an event that changed the history of the country and for decades italians have been demanding that those responsible pay for their crimes, just as it was for battisti, another red terrorist protected for years by the leftist internationalist network and delivered from brazil to italy only thanks to president bolsonaro. for the repression of that catholic church which is a victim every day, for the families of those killed because of terrorism, we ask for justice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in italy, they account for 92% of all firms and employ 82% of italian workers. i visited some small and medium-sized businesses last week in tuscany in the shoe industry, in santa maria a monte: i think that 70% is for exports. and what do these companies ask for? these companies are clearly asking for help with their bills, which are now so exorbitant that they are burdening their budgets. they ask for help in accessing credit, because banks often don't even finance solid businesses and therefore they don't have the opportunity to invest. but there is no need for ideology here, because two days ago this parliament voted on the strategy on deforestation. that 's right . but among the products which parliament believes are driving deforestation are leather, which is a waste product and therefore helps the circular economy which europe should absolutely help. so let us not be hypocrites and above all, when we vote on the measures, let us vote without ideology, because european businesses and small and mediumsized enterprises cannot die of bureaucracy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ecological disaster that struck the oder this summer must make us realize that we no longer have time to wait for a gradual abandonment of bad practices in terms of pesticides or waste water management. the management of such an important river, which originates in the czech republic and then forms a natural border between germany and poland, must be an example and a warning for the whole of europe. but it is not just the oder river disaster that we have to worry about: all the environmental emergencies, the acceleration in climate change, the now unacceptable use of poisons and the unconscious management of water are a wake-up call that none of us can pretend not to hear anymore. the drought in europe this summer has increased salinity and reduced oxygenation in watercourses, causing enormous hardship to aquatic fauna and flora, with millions of fish dying from these causes. this 12-year setback must push europe to take strong decisions not only on pesticides and the management of industrial waste disposal, in order to avoid new catastrophes that will have repercussions for years on biodiversity and agricultural production, but on the whole management of that immense asset without which life would not be possible, namely water. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission.
that concludes the oral explanations of vote.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next sitting. if there are no objections, i shall forward forthwith the resolutions adopted at today’s sitting to the persons and bodies named in the resolutions.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 15 september 2022.
dear colleagues, first of all, i would like to make an announcement about the situation in iran, which continues to remain of concern. the world heard the chants of ‘women, life, liberty’ – three words that have become a rallying cry for all those standing up for equality, dignity and freedom in iran. the brutal death of 22 year old mahsa amini marked a turning point. colleagues, it is the daughters of iran who, despite coming under increasing pressure, are leading the push for change. it is the women who are the change—makers, supported by so many courageous allies and friends. today we have professor azadeh kian in the chamber with us. (loud, sustained applause) ms kian, to you and to every girl fighting for her rights in iran, let me say: you are not alone. this european parliament stands proudly with everyone demanding change. we are with you. mahsa amini will be remembered, just like hadis, minu, ghazaleh, hanane, hayedeh, machsa, noka and many, many others. for women, for life, for liberty! (loud applause) last saturday, the eu ambassador to nicaragua was forced to leave the country and diplomatic relations with the netherlands were halted. i condemn the latest unilateral measures by the nicaraguan regime, only two weeks after this house called for an inclusive national dialogue to ensure a peaceful and democratic solution to the political, social and human rights crisis. the ortega—murillo regime cannot continue to isolate the country from the international community. the european parliament will always take a firm stand against the chipping—away of democratic structures. together with like—minded partners, we remain committed towards restoring a rules-based order in the interest of the nicaraguan people. finally, today marks nine years since the shipwreck of lampedusa, resulting in the tragic loss – as you will recall – of more than 360 lives. 360 dreams shattered, 360 families forever broken. many of whom where never able to be identified. they are people, not statistics. hopes not numbers. we cannot not become de—sensitised to the tragedy. the cruel truth is that the cemetery of the mediterranean has claimed the lives of thousands more women, children and men since then. we need to find a way forward on migration, that looks at the issue in a holistic, humane, european way. it is not enough to shrug and point fingers. we promised change nine years ago when 360 people drowned, we reiterated that promise when young alan kurdi washed up on our sandy beaches, and yet only a few days ago we saw girls die of dehydration off our coasts. when young girls are dying of thirst in our seas, then it is our failure and a failure of our shared humanity. we can and we must do better on this. we must find a way forward. for all those who lost their lives, for all the victims of traffickers, for all those mothers waiting for news that will never come. we remember them. (applause) i give the floor specifically on this point to colleague pietro bartolo.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, nine years have passed since that terrible night. since then, the cries, the voices, the anguish and the silence of the survivors haunt me, because i was there, in lampedusa, rescuing the living and counting the dead. today we pay tribute not only to the 368 people who lost their lives across from my island that night, swallowed by the sea in their desperate attempt to seek a life in europe, but also to the 22 000 others who have since met the same terrible end. this is an anniversary that concerns all of us. there 's only one way to stop this slaughter: the european union is committed to the development of a european policy on immigration and reception. let us do it together, in the name of humanity, and let 3 october become the european day of all victims of the sea. thank you, mr. president, and thank you all.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 23 september president von der leyen, referring to the forthcoming italian elections, said: "if there is a democratic government that wants to work with us, we will work together. on the contrary, if things should go bad, we have the tools to intervene. president von der leyen, what did you mean by "difficult direction"? perhaps a vote not to the liking of the palace elite of europe? well, italy is a democratic country. the italian people have expressed themselves freely, giving full confidence to the centre-right coalition. the commission must not interfere in areas which are not its responsibility if europe is to have a future. we demand respect for the sovereignty of the people, not only of italy but of all european countries. this interference in italian politics has been serious and shameful. the italian people are certainly not to be blackmailed.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the european parliament we often talk about the single market, equal opportunities and a union that is tailored to all its citizens. often, though, they are empty words. our most vulnerable citizens, those with disabilities, need more protection and need to be at the centre of parliamentary activity. in recent years, several measures have been introduced to set standards for accessibility, but unfortunately not enough has been done. our citizens with disabilities are in a world that not only does not make their lives easier, but often discriminates against them. i therefore welcome the work done by the rapporteur. although our groups are politically distant, on issues like these we have found ourselves in tune. it is time for the european commission to listen not only to parliament but also to those over 80 million citizens who need greater protection in order to be able to really be part of our union without any discrimination. yesterday, while i was waiting for the airport shuttle, i met a dear person, a friend of ours in a wheelchair, who said to me: i have just missed the bus because the driver, sitting in a wheelchair, did not see me, and sometimes i feel invisible. i would like to conclude by reminding the members of this house that each of us has decided to embark on a political career in order to try to improve the lives of the people around us. although it is not always easy, i hope that a new era of europe can begin, in which the welfare of citizens and all citizens is given top priority, overcoming ideological veils. because do you think, in 2022, it's unacceptable to hear people say, "sometimes i feel invisible".
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many fine words in this report on accessibility: rights, respect, sensitivity, and civility. unfortunately, the facts do not always follow the fine words, not even in the european parliament, not even in the building which should be accessible to everyone. i want to tell you about a firsthand experience. i've been trying to hire michela for months. michela is a girl from florence, smart but in a wheelchair, and she should come here as an intern. unfortunately, after a long and exhaustive search, michela was unable to find an affordable apartment in brussels and parliament did not know how to help her. yet michela would only like to do an internship like so many of her peers. i'll get you a copy of this report. the intern can't do that right now, but in the meantime, you can take comfort in these beautiful words. i have written to the president of our parliament, roberta metsola, to denounce this incident. in the meantime, we are really trying to help disabled people and their families who would like to be able to live with dignity thanks to the real support of the institutions.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the integration - sorry, the inclusion - of the roma is one of the sea serpents of the european programmes. the assumptions on which they are based, however, do not stand up to scrutiny. it must be said that dealing with this issue requires a good deal of lucidity, especially with regard to the real desire to assimilate so many roma into the majority populations. in this respect, the persistence of practices which deeply offend our sensibilities, such as early marriage or child labour, justifies certain specificities. this persistence may also partly explain the record of public policies in favour of these populations in recent years. however, this is not due to a lack of generosity, as is shown, for example, in the field of education, by the quotas and other scholarships made available by some member states. furthermore, one cannot speak of school segregation without recognizing that it is too often the result, as i have pointed out in the past, of decisions by parents of pupils who disagree with the school management about their children's prospects. the causes of the present status quo are diverse and require a measured response. as long as the commission is relying on a blanket condemnation of certain member states, any improvement seems out of reach.
madam president, madam commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the slums of the poor, the gypsies, the roma in slovakia are no different from the segregated slums of western europe, unfortunately. it is difficult for those who are not born there to imagine the difficulties and inequalities that people born in such settlements face. however, the generation-long cycle of extreme poverty can be stopped by better use of eu resources. but for all this to happen, the funds must first be called in and then spent without corruption, with the involvement of the local community leaders, both roma and non-roma. today, the post-war and post-covid recession has hit europe's poor, and among them, europe's roma, first and hardest. today, there are starving european roma and non-roma families because of covid and the war. that is why i am recommending to all member states the measures taken by the hungarian government. i speak from experience, and i ask that member states include in their national strategies compulsory kindergarten education from the age of three, preceded by integration into kindergartens, and a family home-building programme, in which, for example, a hungarian citizen receives a huf 10 million discount for the purchase of a home. large families were given a car-buying discount, mothers with many children were given a lifetime tax credit, as were young workers under 25. so these incentives, in addition to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, to be able to hire roma, to develop roma entrepreneurs to be able to start larger companies. we must encourage them, because hunger and unemployment are again threatening this most deprived group.
madam president, i would like to thank you. you can't ban poverty, you know. while the right attacks poor people, we social democrats believe that poverty and inequality should be fought. the current situation should be seen as a direct consequence of our history and the widespread structural oppression and discrimination that roma have suffered and continue to suffer. romans have been tormented and persecuted throughout their history and have been on the run. roma women and children are among the most vulnerable individuals, and here we must do more to protect these groups. at the same time, governments are abusing and inciting minority groups and this is also happening here in the european parliament. rome's situation is alarming and is now worsening further with rising inflation and rising energy prices. when crises like these occur, it is always the weaker groups that are hit the hardest. now all member states must live up to the charter of rights and human rights. the commission has a great responsibility to initiate infringement procedures against member states which violate our common values. we must work together to ensure that no one is denied the right to housing, education, basic health care, basic sickness and unemployment insurance, or the ability to provide for themselves. we need a better strategy to eradicate poverty and combat social exclusion. effective solutions require a full commitment at european, national and local level to find common solutions to solve the situation of roma and to give them equal opportunities to participate. we must recognise the discrimination faced by roma and we must take responsibility together for a more solidarity-based and fairer europe. we know that europe can do better.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, at the heart of the european union are the roma ghettos, which are slums on mountains of waste, without access to clean water, without roads, without fair access to health care, education, the labour market and social assistance. this is the medieval reality we faced during our regi mission in eastern slovakia, and it is the same throughout europe. that is why i ask the question: how is this possible, with the 370 billion of cohesion? this reality, madam commissioner, is institutional racism, and there is complicity at all levels so that nothing changes. i say to you as chairman of the regi committee: the 2021-2027 programming must be made real with regard to marginalised communities. it is the duty and obligation of the european commission to ensure this and to take all measures in the event of non-compliance. madam president, in conclusion i would like to say that we in europe do not accept a caste of untouchables within our union.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of roma in the eu countries is absolutely unacceptable. what we see in a number of countries, such as slovakia, romania, bulgaria, is not up to 21st century standards. the roma are the largest ethnic minority, but they live in conditions that are not european. no clean water, filth, no prospects for future integration into society. how is it that we spend so much money on roma issues and we see no effect? why is there no solution to this pressing issue that would lead to a real solution to the roma problem? why not try some of the projects that we have implemented with petr pollák in slovakia, for example, and we want to solve housing, work and the fact that young roma go to school? education is the foundation, we say it all the time. and why don't we understand that? why do we keep putting money into projects that don't deliver the desired results? ladies and gentlemen, if we solve, and if we manage to solve, the situation of the roma in europe, we will be able to really change the cultural life in the european union countries in a significant way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thousands of people live in roma and sinti settlements in europe in conditions which are not dignified. women, men, boys and children often live in unsafe housing, without drinking water, electricity, sanitation. people who are marginalized from quality educational pathways, which would be the main opportunity for emancipation, and excluded from employment opportunities capable of restoring the dignity due. this leads to a lack of effective access to health care, with a dramatic infant mortality rate. a condition, that is, of explicit social exclusion, marginalization and extreme poverty that we must define for what it is: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this phenomenon. and we must counter all this not with policies of ghettoization, discrimination and segregation, but with different interventions that help the promotion of the person, redemption, full social inclusion. europe needs policies to combat poverty and social exclusion much more clearly, in this case too. if we do not act quickly, however, in such contexts, forms of chronic poverty will certainly increase, as will forms of illegality, which we must not ignore and which are a terrible adversary to the objective of full social inclusion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard many fine words, but i would like to tell you a story. in pisa, in the 2000s - pisa and tuscany have been ruled by the left for many years - with european community funds for about one billion of the old lire, 500 000 eur, villas were built to overcome a roma camp that had hundreds and hundreds of inhabitants. well, what happened? that these villas were built, and very beautiful, completely dismantled to resell the pieces by the same inhabitants, by the same occupants of the villas, and a few years ago in that village they arrested an entire family who had forced a 15-year-old girl into a forced marriage and had practically kept her segregated with violence and unspeakable abuse. that project, which then became an incredibly illegal one, was financed with european community money. but i ask myself and i ask you: you know the old saying that if you want to feed a man, you don't give him a fish, you teach him how to fish?
in writing. once again the european union is out of touch with reality. in the midst of an unprecedented energy crisis, with households and businesses unable to pay their bills, the priority is to discuss roma and their living conditions. instead of thinking about aid and subsidies to cope with expensive energy, we are here to discuss what aid and what tools to make available to the roma population, to better integrate them into our communities. the problem is that they themselves do not want to integrate, preferring very often to live by crime, than by a real job. so it is pointless to continue spending public money on building houses and apartments for the roma, which, in most cases, have not led to the much-awaited integration. we are beginning to concentrate resources on dismantling the criminal networks run by the roma in the major european cities. thank you, sir.
the next item is the debate on two oral questions on key objectives for the cites cop19 meeting in panama (2022/2681(rsp)):– the oral question to the council on key objectives for the cites cop19 by pascal canfin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000038/2022 - b9-0023/2022); and– the oral question to the commission on key objectives for the cites cop19 by pascal canfin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000039/2022 - b9-0024/2022).
author. – madam president, i welcome the commissioner and the minister. in these times of climate and environmental crisis, we need to urgently step up the protection of the most endangered animals and plants. crucially, this means that we need to protect more species via the annexes of the cites convention, and we need to increase enforcement and tackle wildlife crime. i am very glad that my colleagues in the environment committee supported the proposal to write this ambitious resolution. this ambition is much needed because, all too often, the european union made poor choices during the cites negotiations. cites was designed to maintain commercial trade in specimens of wild animals and plants, rather than protect them. however, shouldn't cites regulate the trade, instead of stimulating it? today, i would like to focus on the role that the european union plays. the eu's position is often the key reason for the failure of many cites proposals. one would hope, with this commission's loudly trumpeted commitments to halting biodiversity loss, that there would be greater support for the range states when they are making a desperate bid to protect their native wildlife populations at the upcoming cites cop. why doesn't the commission support the range states’ proposals? for instance, proposals to protect the hippo and the elephant. at the last cop, the commission refused to support the uplisting of the african elephant to appendix i. now, six years later, the situation with some of the african elephant populations is dramatic. at this moment, 10 range states have proposed to transfer the common hippo to cites appendix i. these west african countries are bearing direct witness to the decline of this iconic species, and yet the commission thinks that it knows better and seems determined to not support the hippo uplisting proposal. this parliament, however, noted the african nations’ concerns and is voicing its support for ending the commercial trade in hippo products in this resolution. we recognise that this will throw a lifeline to the species, which is jeopardised not only by habitat loss and climate change, but also by the trade in its tusks and teeth for ivory. i urge the commission and member states to support this hippo proposal. do not make the same mistake as you made with the african elephant. the same can be said for the proposal to list glass frogs on cites appendix ii. these amphibians are becoming increasingly popular in the exotic pet trade. they are protected in many range states, but are collected and traded illegally. also, these species fell victim to the eu's position at the last cop. we know that we can really make a difference when the eu steps up its action. for example, six years ago, the morocco and the european union promoted together the listing of the barbary macaque. this has already borne fruit: we are now seeing the stronghold population in the atlas mountains recovering. staying on the subject of the exotic pet trade, it is good that this resolution reiterates parliament's support for an eu—wide positive list. this would also limit the number of wild species that can be kept by private owners and thereby reduce a huge amount of animal suffering of species that are unsuitable to be kept as pets. i urge my colleagues to support the text as agreed by the environment committee. i am hoping that the commission listens to these and parliament’s other demands and soon delivers a revised action plan against wildlife trafficking, with real teeth and the funding to be able to tackle the overexploitation of other species. we need to increase enforcement and penalties for wildlife crime and decrease the demand for products from endangered species, particularly hunting trophies and traditional medicines. i'm looking forward to hearing the response of the council and the commission to the crucial points i raised and also to hear their answers to envi’s questions, in particular, the need to address the link between wildlife trade and the risk of zoonotic pandemics. i would like to hear from the presidency about what they will do to make sure that this cop, as well as those on climate and biodiversity, will deliver the success that we so desperately need to protect our planet. i would like to thank, lastly, all the envi shadows for the great collaboration on this resolution and look forward to its adoption tomorrow.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for inviting me to this debate. we are witnessing an unprecedented global decline of nature. this is threatening around 1 million animal and plant species with extinction, and it is the direct result of human activity. reversing this trend is a major objective for the european union and its member states. we believe that cites is a key international convention for biodiversity conservation and a valuable instrument for our efforts to fight wildlife trafficking. the council aims to adopt an ambitious position for cites cop19 in line with relevant union policies and international commitments. as you know, the union has submitted 13 of 52 proposals for amending the cites’ appendices that have been tabled for consideration at cop19. our listing proposals are based on scientific criteria, the conservation status of the species concerned and the impact that trade has on the status of that species. we will do our utmost to gather support for these proposals and have them adopted by the cop19 in panama. cites also plays a very important role in the conservation of forests, and we support stronger and more consistent action between cites and other forest-related organisations and processes. we have also proposed to add listing of additional tree species under cites at cop 19. in addition, the eu supports better protection through cites of species which are imported to the eu illegally or at unsustainable levels, including various species of reptiles and amphibians, in particular several species of turtles imported to the eu as pets. as i stated before, strengthening the global response to wildlife trafficking is a major priority for the eu, and we have done much in the context of the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking to address root causes, improve enforcement and strengthen the global partnership of source, consumer and transit countries. this comprehensive approach should be reflected in the mandate for cop19. in particular, addressing elephant poaching and ivory trafficking remains a priority for the eu, and our intention for cop19 is to focus on promoting actions that directly address this problem and on harmonising the conditions for trade in live african elephants. the covid-19 pandemic has drawn considerable public attention to global wildlife trade because of the risk it poses for the emergence and spread of zoonotic diseases. and i know you are very attentive to these aspects. we acknowledge the role of cites’ place in accordance with its mandate in reducing potential risks to the health of animals and people. however, this is a broader issue that requires collaboration of various organisations dealing with animal or public health, trade, food and transport in line with the one health approach. we strongly support the renewed commitment between the world organisation for animal health and the cites to work together on animal health and welfare issues worldwide to safeguard biodiversity and protect animals. let me assure you that the presidency, together with the commission and the member states, is determined to take an active role to ensure that cites continues to be an effective tool in attaining its main objectives: the conservation and sustainable management of our natural resources. we are therefore prepared to conduct the upcoming deliberations in a spirit of cooperation, mutual understanding and joint interests in the protection of species that are threatened by trade in order to maintain a diverse and healthy environment for our future generations.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, 2022 is a key year for reinforcing our commitment towards preserving biodiversity. with the biodiversity cop 15 in december and the cites cop 19 a month before, we have a unique opportunity to shape global efforts to halt and reverse the continued destruction of nature. the international trade in wild animals and plants is estimated to be worth billions of euros annually and includes thousands of different fauna and flora species. this trade plays an important role in many economies. it ranges from live animals and plants to products derived from them, including food, leather goods, timber and medicines. at the same time, however, we must regulate the international wildlife trade effectively to ensure its sustainability, and to ensure it is consistent with the fight against species extinction. the eu has been actively engaged in advocating for strict global rules on wildlife trade and in the implementation of cites through the eu wildlife trade regulations. the commission has also been actively promoting strong eu—wide enforcement of the rules. let me now reply more specifically to your three questions. the eu’s main objective for the upcoming cop 19 in panama in november is to extend the cites scope to additional species threatened by international trade. this would be done by including them in the cites appendices when the relevant criteria are met. for this purpose, the eu has proposed to include a number of animal and plant species in the cites appendices, and namely several timber and marine species, but also reptile and amphibian species. demand for some of these species in the eu is significant. so by making proposals for listing, we take responsibility for ensuring that trade is sustainable. we count on partner countries to support the eu proposals. a second priority is to ensure that the rules in place are transparent and uniformly understood and interpreted. for instance, trade in live elephants can only take place in limited circumstances based on the cites framework and on transparent and robust scientific scrutiny. the eu has proposed to clarify the framework to ensure that it is as rigorous and as effective as possible. the eu will also continue to encourage building capacities of relevant authorities and strengthening cooperation between source, transit and destination countries. as regards your second question, the commission acknowledges that international trade in wildlife may pose a risk for the emergence of zoonotic diseases. at the international level, the eu fully supports the cites secretariat in its partnership with the world organisation for animal health and sees the need for cites to act within its mandate to limit the risks of the transmission of zoonotic diseases in the context of wildlife trade. the commission has been supporting projects aiming to explore the links between the transmission of zoonotic diseases and trade in wildlife and to limit the risk of these transmissions. turning to your last question, we will soon publish the evaluation of the 2016 action plan against wildlife trafficking. this evaluation has found that over the last years wildlife trafficking has clearly risen up the agenda of policymakers, law enforcement agencies and stakeholders in the eu and worldwide. the eu and its member states have scaled up enforcement measures, for instance, to enhanced cross-border investigations, resulting in more seizures and prosecutions. the eu has also led actions against wildlife trafficking in multilateral fora, notably under cites, and the eu and member states’ diplomatic networks have been mobilised, actively engaging in bilateral and regional dialogues. lastly, the eu has provided substantial funding for local communities’ involvement in the management and conservation of wildlife, capacity building of law enforcement agencies and support for cross-border collaboration to combat wildlife trafficking and dismantle organised crime networks. despite these efforts, wildlife trafficking, combined with climate change and environmental degradation, continues to put a serious strain on wildlife, as well as on people’s livelihoods and security. trafficking routes and trafficked species change, while capacities and resources dedicated to fighting wildlife crime remain limited. this results in a relatively low number of prosecutions and convictions, despite an increase in seizures. building on the 2016 action plan and its evaluation, the revised action plan against wildlife trafficking, which we will adopt before the end of this year, will aim to respond to the current challenges in a comprehensive way. it will put more focus on capacity building along the enforcement chain and will encourage coordination and cooperation within and between member states. it will also renew the eu commitment to fight online wildlife trafficking, harnessing the future adoption of the digital services act to give enforcement actors the necessary tools to tackle wildlife crime online. it will also call for more transparency in decision—making, based on a stronger partnership of the eu and its member states, with non-governmental organisations, international organisations and the private sector. we aim to establish a more robust framework for monitoring and evaluation of the action plan. this framework will build on existing reporting mechanisms in order to limit the burden on member states and will take account of the inherent limitations of measuring action against illegal trade.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, we are indeed faced with an important and necessary resolution. it has already been said: we must bear in mind that the illegal trade in wildlife, behind drug trafficking, human trafficking and the trafficking and counterfeiting of products and coins, is the fourth largest illegal trade in the world and generates more than 23 000 million euros. it is also an illegal trade that is devastating to the delicate balance of the ecosystem. the protection of our biodiversity is therefore absolutely necessary and in this area we must be able to defend the implementation of the cites convention in view of the next cop. there are great threats and great failures in this illegal trade, mainly because there is no proper enforcement of the convention, no political priority on the part of the parties involved and no sufficient resources. we therefore think that the european union, in view of the forthcoming cop19 in panama, must promote sufficient financial resources, it must call for the adoption of effective national legislation, it must call for greater coherence and harmonization between the various conventions, it must call for the application of dissuasive sanctions when the convention is not respected. the european union also needs to adopt a new plan - an ambitious plan of action - to combat wildlife trafficking. and in this plan we must also include, as has already been said, improved coordination and police activities to combat new criminal systems, such as wildlife trafficking on the internet. we must improve inspection activities and cooperation between the administrations involved, and we must work hard to raise awareness in society.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i have a very practical question for the commission, and regarding this topic, i will present a separate vote on a paragraph 39, which bans the import of a hunting trophy. as a person that has worked a lot in africa for many years, i know the situation very well, and i work on the side of people defending biodiversity. but, for example, in namibia, trophy hunting, which is legal trophy hunting, is almost 5% of the gross national product and is very important from a biodiversity protection and an economic point of view, because all the meat goes to tribes, part of the money goes to the tribes for schooling, in exchange of not poaching. because we have to remember that a lot of animal killings in africa are done by the tribes to protect their agricultural land, for reason, because they need food, also for money. and so this system works; brings a positive economic effect, brings protection of biodiversity. so i would like to believe this is possible. and by the way, i’m in contact with the ambassadors of namibia, south africa, botswana and mozambique, and i would like to bring them here to explain exactly the numbers in their respective countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner ferreira, the phenomenon of depopulation is leading to remote and mountainous areas attracting and retaining fewer and fewer people. this is because until now these areas have not had the necessary support and the right tools to prevent this escape. it is clear that if the population, and especially the young, do not have access to services, employment and infrastructure, they lose interest in living in rural and mountain areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. for example, the reappearance of wild animals in populated areas, such as the increasing presence of wolves in northern italy, which has negative impacts not only on livestock and farms, but also on local households and the potential population, which is the increasingly discouraged and fearful tourists. in the light of these events and of parliament's resolution on demographic trends, i ask you: are the member states already taking measures under the new cohesion policy to combat depopulation? any progress with the old programming? do you think that the involvement of local authorities is at a satisfactory level at present?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are returning to the plenary with yet another questionable use of article 7, which europeans have come to know as the gun pointed at the heads of governments that are less in line with the wishes of brussels. it is a funny thing, but not so funny, that you say that you are concerned about the rights of minorities when you are the first in this house to disregard the views of those who have a different idea of europe from yours. but it is all dramatically consistent with the vile exit of president von der leyen who, a few days before the italian vote, threatened to have instruments at her disposal if things went "in a difficult direction". then maybe the president can tell us where the hard way is. i propose a reflection to you colleagues: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a step in the right direction. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, democracy may be making progress in hungary, as in many other countries, but the current leaders of the european union are certainly the last to give lessons.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, many of us would have liked the courage of your words today, including from the european union, to boycott the inauguration ceremony in raisi in august 2021, because it is on actions that we come and will be judged. i would therefore like you to be clearer about the scope of these sanctions, so that they are as real and as tough as possible, and also to be clear in recognising all the massacres perpetrated by the iranian regime from 1988 to the present. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in detention, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. more clearly in promoting international investigations into the regime of raisi, the butcher of tehran, to restore justice to the iranian people. more clearly against a regime that provides no contribution to humanity, only death and terror. lighter against that veil that brings blood and death. and those locks of hair, the hair of iranian women, our hair, in which the freedom of women, the freedom of the world and its future, is breathed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, masha amini, hadis najafi, roshana and who knows how many other names have escaped the news these days. but how many more women must die before europe takes a strong stand against the fundamentalist regime in tehran and the process of islamization of europe? it is time for brussels to get out of the ambiguity, if it really wants to be in solidarity with those women who are fighting and dying today to protest against the hijab, it cannot spend millions of euros to propagandize in europe the use of the veil or social models against which these women are today courageously rebelling to the cry of women, life and freedom. brussels cannot betray the confidence of those women who flee and flee to the west, where they believe they can live free from all subjugation like samam. we have a duty now more than ever to defend our european values with all our might, so that what is happening today in a country which seems so far away is not a dramatic foretaste of our future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the death of mahsa amini at the age of 22 from a lock of hair outside the veil is an unacceptable horror. the veil that mortifies and kills, a symbol of submission, but recently promoted by the eu as an emblem of integration. as oriana fallaci said, there are women in the world who still live behind the thick fog of a veil, the fog that envelops the iranian regime, responsible for 76 protesters killed and thousands arrested in the last two weeks alone. among them is an italian woman, alessia piperno. i therefore urge mrs farnesina and commissioner borrell to use every tool to ensure that alessia and the other europeans in prison return home as soon as possible. mahsa amini and all the other mahsa victims of the iranian regime must not be forgotten. i would therefore like to join the initiative of the italian political refugee association and light a candle to the courageous rebellion of iranian women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we stand with the women of iran who are fighting every day for freedom and dignity. their fight is our fight. the vicious repression of recent weeks has primarily affected them, the women. it affects girls, it affects those who claim the right to decide for themselves, as it has already often affected personalities from the world of culture, free voices, citizens who are not aligned with the authoritarian voice of the regime. these days we are witnessing violent persecution, harassment, torture, imprisonment, in an unprecedented repression which, after the killing of mahsa amini, has resulted in dozens and dozens of victims. a climate of terror to which our institutions must respond by tightening diplomatic relations and exerting maximum pressure without being intimidated. the girls and boys of iran, in the streets of their country and around the world, are repeating three words that i want to repeat here: "woman, life, and freedom".
mr president, we hear from the european union's senior officials that they regret that the baltic countries' warnings about russia's plans were not heeded. but what is the point of those words when little has changed so far? the introduction of new sanctions is becoming more and more obvious, and the serious crimes committed by russian soldiers are becoming less and less alarming. in the end, europe is merely reacting to putin's actions, rather than taking action first without waiting for another attack. let us not doubt that the kremlin, which started the war in ukraine in 2014, will continue to pursue its goals. talking to an aggressor is worthless, and calls, appeals to common sense, and diplomacy will not do the trick. we must realize that there is no sanity in the kremlin, and we must act accordingly.
mr president, russia’s war against ukraine has started in 2014 and some woke up to it only this year. while we in central-eastern europe were screaming about the growing danger of russia’s imperial appetite, others in the eu were supporting russia with generous military and energy contracts. it was a fatal mistake, with heavy repercussions and losses. today, many recognise poland, the baltics and other countries, frontline countries, were right but not listened to. today, the same people continue not to listen and not to follow informed advice of central-east european countries. the frontline central european countries were the only besides the us and uk, to give immediately a big part of the effort and budget to support ukraine’s fight and to receive this time ‘true’ refugees. the eu did not help adequately frontline member states. many in the eu, even now, are proposing to send military equipment and disburse already promised money; not to mention increase. it is our urgent imperative and duty to give more heavy weapons and more finance and join the us initiative of monthly 1.5 billion transfers to ukraine’s budget, to put to zero and sanction russia, to enforce payment of reparations to ukraine and finally, to accept ukraine in nato.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the time for playing with words is over. the conflict in eastern europe has entered our homes and threatens to make a cruel winter attack on the quality of life of the people of all europe, and the danger of nuclear war has increased dramatically. at this point, the czech government, the european union and nato are doing nothing but adding fuel to the fire. there is an absurd competition to see who will supply more weapons to the fratricidal war, who will show more courage to fight to the last ukrainian. the recent terrorist attacks on the gas pipeline from russia to germany have not only damaged the interests and property of these two countries, they have directly threatened social peace throughout europe and also demonstrated in practice the disunity of the west, the different attitude of washington and berlin towards ukraine. and you will remember the threatening words of us president joe biden in early february, when he threatened to close the nord stream pipeline in the presence of the german chancellor. i call on all eu institutions to use their influence, take the initiative and start peace and diplomatic negotiations. only they can lead to the end of the conflict. the sooner the better.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, reports from the front are that ukraine is winning the war. but are we really sure that putin will accept to lose without raising the bar? nuclear drift is a possibility that is becoming more likely every day, even general petraeus, the former director of the cia, said, is needed to avoid world war iii. those you call european populists want peace and negotiation. however, zelensky, but also the usa and the european union say no. so what i 'm asking myself is: will the european union survive this war? i don't think you are. because we must also ask ourselves whether, when the bombs fall on our cities, we will do as our colleague mr sikorski did, who after the bombing of the pipelines said: "thank you usa". we will also have to say 'thank you, european union', or at least that is what our citizens will say. we think hard about how many lives and how many businesses we're willing to sacrifice. i ask you: please, let's stop this madness!
mr president, dear colleagues, the first and most important thing is to observe and recognise the reality on the ground. and the reality is that ukraine is winning this war, russia is losing this war and russia knows it. russia is answering with aggressiveness and russia is answering with propaganda. and our first important duty is to tell the truth to the people of europe, to make sure that the people of europe are properly informed. we have to tell to the people that russia is failing militarily. it is failing politically, economically and it is failing morally. what do we do? we have to stay united. we have to help each other within the european union. we have to help our neighbouring countries. we have to help ukraine and we have to continue sanctioning russia. sanctions work, there are no more investments into russia. russia has no more access to our top technologies. and next year it will have no more revenues from gas and fossil fuels from us. we saw last week that russia is trying to also affect our immediate neighbouring countries. it cut by 30% the gas supplies to the republic of moldova, an eu candidate country. we have to help there and, commissioner vice-president, amounts which are too small for us, make a big difference and will help keep the republic of moldova, an eu candidate country, on the european path.
mr president, more than seven months since the start of its aggression, things are not going as planned for russia. what was supposed to be a quick special military operation turned into a long battle, where ukrainian forces showed exceptional bravery and even started to advance. the pipeline that was a significant source of financing for russian aggression is sabotaged. in desperation the kremlin began to mobilise. i believe that, once again, this house will confirm a strong-text resolution and this lead the way for future actions. our demands and suggestions are precise. we want and ask for: another robust package of sanctions targeting anyone involved in these illegal referenda, as we will never recognise their so-called results. coordinated actions on the visa and asylum applications of the russian citizens and concrete proposals for advanced military support. i would also like to reflect on the great sense of unity permanently shown by this house since the start of the russian aggression on ukraine. one of the most critical tasks is maintaining unity among our governments and citizens as well. we have to be clear and say: the origin of all the problems that our citizens are dealing with – high energy prices, food supply problems, and security threats – are caused by the actions of the russian regime. the firmer we are with our sanctions, the sooner they will end. and the change in russia should come from within. therefore, we should increase our support to those in russia who raise their voices against the putin regime and can be the drivers of this change. this war will end putin’s regime. slava ukraini!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of war, international law requires that the aggressor be denounced and the aggressed defended. i therefore strongly condemn the aggression against ukraine and the annexation by russia of four ukrainian regions. this is an unacceptable attack on the territorial integrity of a sovereign state. the rejection of armed conflict resolution is a fundamental principle of international law. from grotius to aristide briand to victor hugo, advocates of a peaceful society of nations have always rejected the use of military force. these demands are, of course, directed primarily at russia and its president, who has unfortunately chosen to call for armed aggression against a sovereign country. but they also concern the president of the european commission, who recently came to tell us that only a military solution could bring an end to this dramatic conflict which is tearing the peoples of europe apart. no, the european union must not give in to blind bellicism. let everyone here be aware of that. this conflict can only be definitively ended by a ceasefire and negotiation. the warmongers in brussels must stop this mad escalation which is being carried out on washington's orders to humiliate russia. i am following the example of general de gaulle and i want a multipolar world in which france and europe play their role as a force for peace rather than accepting to be the footstool of the american all-powerful.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this war unfortunately involves all of us, indirectly on the military level, certainly on the economic level. two mistakes are not to be made. the first is that we must not make isolated choices, especially in the energy field. the ceiling on gas and electricity prices, if it is finally reached in the next few days, will come too late for businesses and households in italy and europe. we have to hurry. the second mistake we must not make is to divide the home front. the political campaign against some conservative governments is a flagrant injustice that is affecting the european states which are bearing the brunt of the current geopolitical crisis. i'm italian and i can't help but wonder what the next government will be in the crosshairs of here. i only hope that the left's hatred of democracy does not surpass vladimir putin's hatred of democracy, but allow me to be a little pessimistic in that regard.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, putin's war is not only fought on the ground. there is also a war being waged in the field of communication and propaganda, which is evidently based on massive disinformation and is fed by more or less obvious political complicity, complicity which we must have the courage to point out and expose. last week - i'm just quoting this as an example - meta announced that it had discovered and blocked a network of 1,600 accounts feeding fake news through 60 sites, copied from some of the most prestigious western newspapers. probably the largest and most complex russian-linked network ever identified since the start of the invasion of ukraine. unfortunately, this is only a fraction of what is actually on the ground today. this parliament has long been aware of the many attempts by foreign powers to interfere and destabilise our democracy. our special committee on foreign interference in the democratic processes of the union has clearly identified the problem and in its report of 9 march last it called for strong measures and instruments to be put in place, in particular on the transparency and control of funds coming from abroad, the role of more or less hidden lobbies, and the use of platforms as a privileged vehicle for disinformation and interference. it was particularly significant that in this house president von der leyen, in her last state of the union address, stressed all this, stressed the importance of the actions that can be taken on the threats and dangers we are facing. it is an important element of political awareness, but it must be followed up by clear, clear measures now, because there is really no more time to lose in the fight against interference. to fight the war on disinformation, we obviously don't need to set up a ministry of truth or hope to suppress dissent, which is part of the normal democratic dialectic thank goodness we are not like the others , but we need tools that guarantee a free, independent and professional information, which is an essential element for our democracy. we must also tell ourselves that those who know must speak out and that the lists emerged from us sources of those european politicians who have taken russian money or have fuelled a complicity of exchanges and favors with putin's entourage should be made public. i too - and mr séjourné has already done so - quote the incredible statements by berlusconi, the salvini case, the cases of the more radical right in france and germany. all things that need truth and straight answers.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express our solidarity and closeness to the people of pakistan, also on behalf of the delegation for relations with the countries of south asia of which i am the chairman. i met the ambassador yesterday and we took stock of the tragedy in pakistan and of the aid that europe has been bringing in these last few weeks. this concrete aid immediately translated into some eur 2.5 million in support of families affected by the floods. it is certainly not much, considering the extent of the damage, but this funding is added to two valuable instruments which represent perhaps the best we can offer as europeans from the humanitarian and technological point of view. i am referring to the activation of our civil protection mechanism and the use of the european copernicus satellite service to obtain useful information on the most affected areas of the country. the immediate response will need to be accompanied by an effective medium and long-term strategy. the climate emergency has shown its cruelest face in pakistan. we know that it is difficult to combat it, but its worst consequences can be contained by a careful policy of countering hydrogeological disruption. let's do it together, as the arab proverb says: "friendship is a treasure that never ends".
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the issue of rules on the management of space traffic is becoming a key issue at a sensitive time for space, with the presence of the chinese space station, in addition to the international space station, and the spread of commercial space stations in the coming years. as early as 2023, the first module of the future private axiom space station will be sent into orbit. the issue of debris is of great importance for the safety of the vehicles, but especially for the safety of the crew, since on average the international space station makes at least four rapid changes of orbit each year to avoid swarms of space debris. these are numbers that should make you think about who will be called upon to legislate. at the same time, the mapping of debris is becoming more and more complicated, more and more complex, because so far the international community has developed good practices, providing engines for re-entry into the atmosphere and minimizing those parts that could then become debris. unfortunately, in recent years, some countries, following the recent launches of the chinese space station, have not followed these good practices, often not even monitoring the re-entry of their carriers into the atmosphere. so we need international agreements that are clear and binding on waste reduction, but above all projects to collect and burn larger waste into the atmosphere. in conclusion, it is therefore essential that the european commission and this parliament find the most appropriate synergy to summarise european rules, also with a view to the colonization of the moon, which with the artemis mission will involve the use of a lunar orbiting station as a support base for the lunar landings and future missions to mars.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the conflict in ukraine is generating a world food war which threatens our food security and the ability to provide food in the poorest countries. fertilizers, whose price has increased by 200%, have become a rare commodity for farmers, while the farms that produce them struggle to stay on the market or close down due to high bills and shortages of raw materials. to lower the price and increase the availability of fertilisers, a cap on the price of gas is needed to curb this speculation at the expense of households and businesses. we must promote natural alternatives such as legumes or organic fertilisers. it is necessary to suspend the anti-dumping duties on imports of fertilisers and to derogate until the end of 2023 from the european regulation on the marketing of fertilisers, because the compliance criteria set in 2019 are currently blocking our manufacturing companies. the european strategy must therefore be ambitious, capable of providing answers to our farmers and also of preventing new famines, wars and poverty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, drought, cost explosion. 2022 in the agricultural sector is going to be a much worse year than last year. in italy, 34% of farms are forced to work in a negative income situation, while over 13% are even at risk of closing. the measures proposed by the commission last july on the reduction of import tariffs for raw materials needed to produce fertilisers are certainly positive, but if on the one hand tariffs are removed to lower the very high production costs, on the other hand a stronger strategy is being used, we are creating the basis for further increasing dependence on imports. we have the illusion that we can overcome the crisis in the agricultural sector with restrictive measures like this, but the risk is to increase dependence on imports which has been recognised as the cause before the cost explosion. so i would not want us to repeat the same mistake, the same misstep that we are already making in terms of energy, relying on rationing plans and the fit for 55 package. so i ask you, commissioner, i propose that we seriously consider a new evaluation which finally takes account of the changed international context and is ready for the farm to fork roadmap.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome an approach to pandemic management that gradually moves from a state of emergency to a more sustainable one, one that can protect public health but at the same time keep society and the economy open and resilient. it is not yet clear how public and private european research will be promoted, nor how eu-funded and independent studies will be taken into account. i therefore believe that the commission should lead the way so that all member states have the financial and organisational capacity and supplies to deal with both the increase in cases of covid-19 and the potential for other diseases that would put a strain on the resilience of national health systems. we must guarantee and ensure the health but at the same time the freedom of citizens by adopting a single, standard protocol, including any restrictions which we hope will never happen again. i asked this in february 2020 with an urgent question. she hasn't arrived yet, and i hope she does, and that she does soon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being here with us, commissioner, in these two and a half years we have been divided and torn apart in our societies, within our parties and within our governments. citizens have been subjected to restrictions, often unfair in my opinion. some mistakes were made, i admit, in good faith, others probably in bad faith. i think the time has come, because if we have a commission that deals with covid that has a full mandate, that can ask and ask what happened in wuhan to make the european commission itself more transparent, because there is no way that we find out that the european commission funded the wuhan center only because of assange's wikileaks. there's no way we can't see the contracts unless there's a lot of deleted parts. it is not that von der leyen has said to us that she has nothing to say about the pfizer ceo's sms, when the european ombudsman and the court of auditors have strongly criticised and censured the european commission. we are a parliament, we are the representatives of the people, we demand answers and transparency.
madam president, i oppose myself to this request because i think that, on the basis of the facts that we have and that we know, labelling the russian federation as a state who supports terrorism is arbitrary. we could do the same thing against ukraine after the us have assessed that the murder of darya dugina has been made by ukrainian secret services, and that is no doubt a terrorist assault. so if we do want to label some states for terrorism, that would be ones that we could label like at least formally.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the eradication of poverty means the fight for human dignity, which is the basis of every fundamental right: of freedom, justice and peace. with this conviction, as the five star movement we have always supported measures such as the introduction of a citizenship income and a minimum wage, in order to protect the most vulnerable and to combat poverty and social exclusion. the socioeconomic impact of the pandemic and the war requires us to raise additional resources than those put in place by the european social fund plus, the european fund for aid to the most deprived and nextgenerationeu. we need an energy recovery fund to deal with rising energy prices and increasing energy poverty. if we can't correct the inequalities that concentrate wealth in the hands of a few and that limit access to employment opportunities, access to key goods and services, we'll never have a just society that can help those who are left behind.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today is the international day against poverty and we cannot say that europe is going to get there with all the cards in the deck. there are more than 100 million poor europeans. this, compounded by the pandemic and the energy crisis, speaks volumes about the need for a breakthrough. we have recently made extraordinary strides, for example on the minimum wage, but is this a breakthrough in vision or is it an exception that confirms the rule? i confess i haven't quite got it yet. we need immediate measures against energy prices, much bolder policies for the right to housing, uniform policies to make the guaranteed minimum income mandatory and stable, and a major european plan to support the homeless, who are often not even guaranteed access to the health system, and of course the right to education and study, so that the right to access to work is safeguarded without discrimination. in other words, the fight against poverty is a political matter and not a favour to be done to anyone.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to talk about justice, justice which should equally be reserved for the states and therefore for the citizens, who need to feel that the european institutions are treating all cases of violation equally. we have put poland and hungary on the stand, and god forbid italy too, because their governments are too right-wing and question the so-called rule of law. we have feared for democracy in these countries, adopted resolutions and expressed severe judgments against those who have shown a legitimate distrust of the european system. but there was no mention of malta. the journalist daphne caruana galizia was brutally killed for exposing the shady trafficking that sees malta as a crossroads of migrants, drugs and oil. the muscat government has allowed money laundering and corruption to enter european soil, all this in the silence of a left-wing european union too busy denigrating right-wing governments. i therefore join matthew caruana galizia in asking whether the death of his mother is the price to be paid for the construction of the mellitah gas pipeline, which is already partly financed by european funds and included in the fifth list of projects of common interest of the european union. we are facing a serious form of injustice for which we expected greater involvement, greater attention from the european upper echelons, with the imposition of perhaps appropriate countermeasures, and instead nothing. because this was and is the case where more media and institutional attention would have been appropriate and necessary. this is where a serious breach of the rule of law occurs, culminating in murder. but as always, there are two kinds of measures in this parliament, and when a state governed by the left is at fault, forgiveness is easily granted and the eye is turned elsewhere, even at the cost of sacrificing justice.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is yet another debate in which the european union is focusing on blaming those who dare to oppose illegal immigration. instead of realizing that there is a huge problem, you continue to criminalize those who oppose the flow of irregular migrants. you have done this for years against minister salvini, guilty of defending italy's borders and of collapsing the landings of those who had no right to stay in europe: he's been indicted in two absurd trials. but these beautiful souls who are outraged are the same ones who in france with macron are pushing back immigrants at the border with italy and in spain with the socialists, using the army as well, are attacking immigrants who try to enter their territory in ceuta and melilla. i mean, you're very accommodating of other people's boundaries. you want to free everyone from turkey and north africa, and the mediterranean countries, and italy in particular, will become even more of a refugee camp in europe. you even call for no distinction to be made between refugees and illegal immigrants, but, incredibly, you do nothing to promote port rotations and relocations of immigrants. i mean, no solidarity at all. your double standard is unacceptable, and it is also one of the reasons why centre-right coalitions from sweden to italy are gaining ground in elections. the citizens are tired of your false goodwill and your inability to deal seriously and pragmatically with the problem of immigration.
mr president, commissioner johansson, corruptio optimi pessima: this latin adage tells us that the corruption of the best is the worst of all, just as the misuse of power by those entrusted with the task of enforcing the law is harmful to the whole of the system of which they are a part. that is the case with frontex, unfortunately. we are not surprised, because we have been on top of it for a good number of years in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. you know that very well. frontex is now the giant agency of the european union constellation. it has a budget of 750, almost 800 million euros and an army of 10 000 uniformed and armed officers, whose job is to enforce european law, including the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. that is why, in addition to the misuse of power, which is linked to harassment at work or abuse of power within the agency, the libe committee of the european parliament is particularly concerned about actions in which there have been violations of fundamental rights, unlawful returns and cooperation with illegal border operations and illegal border returns, as has been reported, unfortunately, time and again. so lessons must be learned and of course we agree that the management board and the director need to inform the consultative forum and the agency's fundamental rights officer to ensure that fundamental rights are an essential part of the diet and agenda of the daily work of the agency and all its staff. but, in addition to that, we are now faced with nothing less than the prospect of a renewal of the agency's management because - let us be clear - the political pressure of this european parliament - and you know this very well, commissioner - has been decisive in the resignation of its previous director. so the message is clear. the next management must be fundamentally committed to fundamental rights. he must have political experience of interinstitutional relations and transparent accountability to the european parliament. but above all, it must have a belligerent commitment, which is reflected in its service record, to respect for fundamental rights, which have been binding since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, your attitude to frontex tonight has the merit of clarity. the sudden change of leadership and the smear campaign against the agency speak for themselves. for a long time we were told that frontex was a european border guard agency. we have always expressed our reservations and your attitude today raises all doubts. schengen, which should be a protected area of free movement, is in fact an area of free movement open to all winds. for you, immigration is not a problem, it is your project. we will be able to inform the people of europe, who are tired of the immigration you are subjecting them to.
mr president, commissioner, perhaps i do not understand this debate very well. at a time when frontex officers are putting their lives on the line at the borders of the european union, when many of them are working an incredible amount of overtime, when we could see that many of them have not seen their families for weeks because they have to be at work and they have to do their job to keep europe safe, are we going to have this debate and pretend that frontex has a problem? frontex had a problem. yes, and we admitted it in the discharge report, which is quite critical, but only the blind don't want to see the way frontex has changed. yes, we can criticize the former director here, but he's not the director anymore. the new director is mrs kalnaja, who is willing to listen to our criticisms and has taken a number of measures at frontex to rectify the situation that existed at frontex. and we're not supposed to be talking about the situation at frontex today. we're here to talk about who's risking people's lives to get them across the border, about smugglers, about states that don't cooperate. this is supposed to be a critique of turkey. and i really wonder about the left and some of the center-right parties playing this dangerous game.
mr president, the management of the external borders is not done without faith and law. i would even say that in these extremely sensitive policies, respect for human rights must be at the heart of the concerns of this agency which is now presented as essential for the implementation of migration policy. however, we know this, and it is not the first time that frontex has come under fire, both for its inefficiency, and i refer you to the report of the court of auditors, and for its serious violations of human rights, as mentioned here in the olaf report, which only confirms what we have been saying for months and months: the systematic lack of respect for human rights within this agency. commissioner, you are responsible for respecting the international treaties and conventions which place respect for human rights at the heart of the european project. the message must be clear. the warrant has to be clear. the organisation of frontex must be transparent. these are laws, these are rights and this is good governance in full transparency. and obviously, we're a long way from that today.
the report lacks a legal basis and does not lead to clear and concrete conclusions. any discussion of immigration must be serious and responsible. let 's speak the truth: the report coincides with the escalation of turkish aggression against greece and the exploitation of desperate people. just the day before yesterday, turks led 92 people to evros, abused them, stripped them naked and forced them to cross the greek border. the commissioner, mrs johansson, has been informed. these people were rescued by the greek authorities. is there any evidence in the report of illegal expulsions? anyway, that's not her job. her job is to check on those responsible for any mistakes, and the mistakes are corrected. do you know that, every day, men and women of the greek coast guard save human lives at sea? are you aware or is anyone unaware that turkey is not fulfilling its obligation, but instead covers up if not supporting traffickers' networks and flouting its obligation under the 2016 eu-turkey joint statement? fellow citizens, mistakes are being corrected. but we are not canceling the role of frontex. when we talk about crimes against human life and human values, we must use evidence, arguments and concrete facts. otherwise, we are not serious about the problem. frontex is necessary. we need a strong guard of the external borders while respecting fundamental rights. the european citizens need this and we owe it to them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, frontex is a completely negative and failed page, it is even a bad example of the management of public money, but, even before that, it is an instrument of blatant violation of european values. it is a shame that the systematic repression of an agency which should help to manage migration phenomena well has instead become a laboratory for institutionalized discrimination, as is also shown by the revelations in the olaf report concerning declassification to conceal cases of clear violations of human rights. i am sorry to see that the european commission is very clumsy and contradictory on the whole issue of migration policies, and certainly not just frontex. the pact on migration and asylum is a glaringly negative example and everything must be changed, with the focus on managing migration flows, reviewing rules, anti-discrimination measures, cooperation between states and european integration and inclusion policies. in this context, we need the opposite of what frontex has been. we need an agency to help and support rescue operations at sea and on land, to cross borders and to manage migration flows in a peaceful manner. if we look at the situation today, there are many examples of situations where we can no longer afford to turn our backs hypocritically, from what is happening in the mediterranean, with the libyan camps scandal, to what is happening in the balkans or, just to give another example, between belarus and poland.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the good food good farming initiative tells us that almost one in three european citizens has hair contaminated by pesticides: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of pesticides. the farm to fork and biodiversity strategies for 2030 indicate a 50% reduction by 2030, but many states are lagging behind in welcoming the proposed regulation that sets constraints for member states. italy has a national plan that expired in february 2019 and the draghi government seems not to have grasped the importance of the ecological transition, which also goes through a cultural revolution regarding crops and livestock. we have a duty to explain to the citizens how important it is to clean up our agriculture and therefore our waters, our blood, our hair from pesticides and all kinds of poisons. it is a transition that will benefit everyone and that can also be a business and boost agriculture instead of sinking it, as those who do not want to change anything say. but it takes courage, vision and resources. does europe have them? you want to spend it?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, article 3 of the treaty on european union states that the european union 'shall promote economic, social and territorial cohesion and solidarity among its member states'. the principle is commendable and acceptable, but it only works on paper. we have seen little solidarity between member states lately. it is enough to think of the failure of the management of migration flows and the obstructionism of the frugal countries in adopting the recovery fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the principle of solidarity is invoked only when it is in the interests of the european elite and not when it is necessary for the real needs of our families and our businesses, for which adequate and immediate economic aid, more courage and determination are indispensable.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the problems that have arisen since the invasion of ukraine, we are disappointed that the commission has not carried out a study in advance of the social and economic impact that would have been generated by the further impetus given to price increases and the cost structure of enterprises. i think the commission should consider the solution suggested by keynes in his 'how to pay for the war' of '39. eight months after the war began, we still have no common solutions between member countries and european citizens are faced with the dilemma of whether to pay their bills or to buy food, while companies are faced with whether to pay higher energy costs by raising prices or to stop production by laying off their employees. the financial situation appears precarious at both the public and private levels, as the instruments to deal with the first symptoms of a possible systemic crisis have not been put in place. this condition cannot justify the independent initiative of individual member states, which creates serious asymmetries within the single market. if the commission allows the states to intervene directly with their own resources without offering their own alternatives, this will create unlawful competition in the european common market, in clear violation of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the most obvious example is the €200 billion aid plan launched by germany to support its own production system. the delayed consequences of this policy would work against the people's consensus towards the institutions, causing disturbances to the stability of the european agreements, just at the moment when their validity is finally being examined in a rapidly changing world.
president, ladies and gentlemen, in my home town of ghent, i see people every day who can no longer pay their energy bills or whose transport has become too expensive, and this while energy companies and other sectors are making record profits. that's to be furious about, because we're not all in the same boat in this crisis. she cynically produces winners. these big winners don't deliver a different product than they did a year ago, but they do get rich off a war in their sleep. so we have to make sure that the proceeds go back to the vulnerable families to insulate their homes, to install solar panels. the commission proposal does not go far enough. we need to take half of those gains in all the sectors that are now sleeping rich. this should be done retroactively, including for previously recorded profits, for example for the pharmaceutical companies during the covid crisis. we must ensure that member states give back those pennies to the people who really need it, the people who today have to choose between food and heating their homes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the conflict in ukraine, which we must deplore above all, is a boon for the pro-european elites. this conflict must be ended by the only possible way, that of negotiation. i welcome the proposal by mrs marine le pen to call for a large peace conference. in france, other voices are finally speaking up to explain that the implementation of the minsk agreements could have avoided this tragedy. two former ministers of jacques chirac and nicolas sarkozy, luc ferry and pierre lellouche, have recently made their views very clear. no, mrs von der leyen, there can be no armed solution to this conflict because the outcome would be uncertain. there would certainly be only one big loser: europe, our europe, the europe of nations and peoples, of which the european union, the globalist, immigrationist and vassal of the united states, is the permanent negation. but there are probably some in the commission or in these circles who would prefer a good war to a bad peace. yet peace is priceless. and since we are talking about prices, ukraine should not be the pretext for a new european tax - since europeans, as elsewhere in the world, must, it seems, be called upon to pay for damage they did not cause. the ukrainian president himself estimated the amount of reconstruction of his country at €55 billion - in euros, not dollars, of course. we should nevertheless recall the recent report of the court of auditors of the european union, which, although particularly inspired by pro-european views, was very severe on government corruption in ukraine. do you want a tax to finance an endless war? we do not want a war tax or a new european tax.
president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, we have entered the triangle of danger that i warned about this summer. climate, energy supply and purchasing power are the three corners of that triangle. instead of wasting our time now with semantic discussions about price ceilings which are inefficient anyway, it is urgent to develop a framework which provides long-term security and in which nuclear energy deserves a prominent place as a stable and sustainable source. in the case of capital gains taxation, some member states, including belgium, are even going further than the european plans and are therefore on slippery ground. energy prices are no longer even the main determinant of inflation today. the problem has become much broader than just energy. social unrest seems to be inevitable at this point. unfortunately, to bring this inflation under control, we must tighten our belts, both in budgetary and monetary terms. the fact that this will lead to a recession has today - unfortunately, because of the long hesitation in some policy areas - become almost inevitable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, throughout the european union, the high cost of energy is pushing millions of families below the poverty line, and since my country is a country of small and mediumsized enterprises, it is also seriously endangering three and a half million jobs in our country. so the joint purchase of gas is what we have been calling for for some time, and even better the abandonment of the price index of the amsterdam market, where the majority of operators are no longer energy companies but speculators. finally, it is good to set a ceiling on the price of gas, a measure we have been calling for since the beginning of the crisis and which can certainly help the citizens if it is implemented correctly. but what would really make a difference for businesses and households would be to create a new energy recovery fund, thereby collectively recovering capital from the market and transferring it to europeans in need. the measures against the dear bill are not needed now, they were needed yesterday, and one of these will not be enough, they are all needed and they are needed now.
mr president, commissioners, mr president-in-office of the council, we know that there is great concern about the exorbitant rise in prices. we therefore need decisive action by the commission and the member states to enable immediate action to be taken by means of temporary measures. the commission and the council are discussing the possibility of imposing a solidarity levy on fossil fuel companies. it is essential that an exceptional measure such as this achieves its objective and that the funds go directly to the consumers and businesses that need them most. furthermore, contributions should focus on profits, not turnover. they're two very different concepts. it is also very necessary to establish measures to enable the industry to finance gas prices with tax credits, less contributions and a reduction in vat. we must help our industry, because the first objective of the european union and of governments must be to preserve jobs.
mr. chairman, citizens are crushed under the weight of bills, and greed is often the only reason for price increases. consumers are getting bills every day that they don't understand. we need to protect them while they're making deals with the energy companies. we need to pool energy supplies, limit gas prices, separate gas prices from electricity, stop speculation in the energy market. the response to the crisis is solidarity, but that doesn't mean that citizens need to carry the burden themselves in some way. it's time to take from those who have and give to those who have not. some people have a crisis that's a blessing. the digital giants, despite their huge profits, are laying off workers. pharmaceutical companies have become richer by selling vaccines than the countries that have funded them with public money. the surplus of energy companies this year will be 200 billion euros. it's war profiteering. we socialists in crisis don't just offer ideas, we offer solutions. the windfall tax must apply to all those who have profited significantly from this crisis. the pandemic has created a new billionaire every 30 hours, while pushing nearly a million people into extreme poverty. just the ten richest people have more than a third of humanity. it's time for everyone to pay their fair share. we don't know because we need the money, and we need the money, but because it's fair first and foremost.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, luigi einaudi, the second president of the italian republic, called inflation an odious tax on the poor. these are prophetic words in light of how much the rising energy prices are weighing on the low-income groups and i think that in a normal world, people would start to reflect on how harmful the eu's climate and energy policies have been because let's be honest the green deal is becoming a rich man's issue. the goal is shared, the path and the tools are no longer. the war on gas has been raging for years, reducing investment and making our continent increasingly dependent on russia. we cannot wait any longer, we must now show humility and realism and decide whether the union wants to act as a small circle for the rich and the spoiled, or whether, on the contrary, it will abandon the overdose of ideology and start working for the common people.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the cost of the energy bill is no longer sustainable for households and is dealing a death blow to manufacturing companies, which are still bleeding from the economic crisis triggered by covid-19. there are many measures that the european union could have taken to contain the cost of energy: the commission has already made a number of proposals, including the gas price ceiling, the decoupling of energy prices, the tax on extra profits, joint purchases from third countries, but nothing has been done so far. i would remind you that it was the supply of energy from coal that brought the first european nations together 70 years ago. so when we conservatives say that the european union should be less concerned with so many small things and more concerned with a few big things, we are clearly not wrong. we're running out of time. it is time to give the european union a meaning, then it will be too late.
president, when the music stops, it's complicated in terms of liquidity. but as long as the music is playing, you have to get up and dance. and we are still dancing. these are the words of chuck prince, ceo of citigroup, in 2007, just before the financial crisis. today we're back on that dance floor. people back home are watching us to see what the music is going to do in a week, a month, a year. but when i listen to my colleagues today, i hear more of the same: more reckless spending, more european debt sharing, more reckless climate policy, more regulation, more government, more eu. what many of my colleagues are pointing out today is not the solution, but the problem. we are on the verge of a global recession. it's time to kick the habit of free money, subsidies and government interference. the music's stopped, the party's over.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, prices are still high, electricity and gas bills are still very high and the european central bank is raising rates and will continue to do so. and i think it is important that the political authorities - the commission, the council and parliament - agree that we cannot leave inflation in the hands of the european central bank alone, because in that situation rates would rise so high that we would certainly have a hard time. and if we do not leave the responsibility solely in the hands of the ecb, what can we do? i believe that, in the energy field, there is still much to be done. i think we welcome the commission's announcements, but the capacity to consolidate the european energy market remains unfulfilled. we have a lot to do there. we also need funding to help families and households and the commission's own policy action. and i believe that the solidarity contribution proposed by the commission could well help to fund a european instrument which would, by the way, reduce the problems within the single market.
mr president, mr commissioner, it has been eight months now since this energy crisis started. eight months, and i have still not seen a coherent plan by the european commission. i find it hugely disappointing because your job is not to come up with a fragment approach but with a global structural approach. and there isn’t one. you are talking about price caps, okay. you’re talking about windfall tax. but what is the whole picture? what will you do to tackle this energy crisis? i think you have to do three things. that is an energy purchase platform that is completely different to what you are doing now. you will buy together 15% in 2023 – it is the opposite of what you have to do, to buy together 85%. where is the security fund for the investments that we absolutely need? and where is the energy assistance plan for households or companies, the same as we did with covid-19? why do we not repeat it now? you are right when you criticise in this op-ed the german approach with the 200 billion but it is not only necessary to criticise it, you have to also to come forward with an alternative. and we are going to do that with a number of meps. in a few moments, we are going to send you a letter about it, with these cross-party proposals.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, honourable members of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! winter is coming. many households and businesses are asking themselves: how can i pay my electricity and gas bills? how do i cope with the high cost of living? it has been said by many colleagues that valuable time has been wasted. but now we finally have proposals from the commission on the table - late, but as i said, there is something on the table: solidarity levy, depletion of electricity, gas price brake, joint purchasing of gas, new benchmark for fft, so a lot is on the table now. i would like to use my speaking time today to call on the member states to finally take action here and to ask once again, also in the direction of the council presidency, to finally tap the fingers of the member states. so far, each country, each member state has done its own thing. we are far from having a european internal energy market, ladies and gentlemen. but if we want to get a handle on these problems, then we have to act together, which means we have to use all the resources that we have in the country to generate energy.
mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, for months, we’ve been saying to people that the rising cost of energy was something limited and temporary. but it’s not been like that. and, let’s face it, it will not be like this in the future. governments had to intervene massively to support families and businesses and will have to do that again in the future. but it’s not going to be sustainable in the long term, we know that. so what does it mean? it means that this will affect the competitiveness of our businesses, will affect the single market and bring about fragmentation and will also have spill-overs that will aggravate and accelerate a possible recession all over the european union. so we need to intervene very quickly, urgently, on two fronts: one, provide a genuine european instrument to provide support to those countries that don’t have the fiscal space, and also to restore the single market. and then we need an incisive intervention on the energy market – yes, the joint procurement. but we need something more ambitious on the gas price, decoupling gas from energy prices. if we’re not ambitious now, we will regret it when it will be too late.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the particular historical moment we are living in, with its strong economic and social repercussions, requires us to pay even greater attention to the issues connected with the management of the community budget. the sensitivity of citizens, burdened first by covid and now by expensive bills, would impose that call for ethical conduct already reiterated by the court of auditors in its special report no. 13 of 2019. unfortunately, that is not the reality. in recent days, the european union agency for asylum has been in the news again. the current director, nina gregori, who was appointed just three years ago to restore the credibility of the agency following the abrupt resignation of her predecessor, accused of mismanagement and harassment of staff, has now been the focus of a new investigation with allegations of nepotism, irregularities in financial management and cover-up of internal complaints. the agency was given a new name and a new strengthened mandate last january to help unify the way member states handle asylum applications, but just three years after the previous scandal, history seems to be repeating itself with a new olaf investigation into director gregori. cases like this, with a union agency with more than 2 000 employees and regularly making the headlines for scandals involving it rather than for its own work, undermine the confidence of citizens in the european institutions and, frankly, madam president, i find this mismanagement of our taxpayers' funds during the worst economic crisis since the second world war to date to be irreconcilable.
mr president, the general eu budget for 2023 is a powerful political tool. there is a lot of politics inside, not only economics. in times of skyrocketing inflation and economic recession, politics has to deliver. if politics does not deliver, we will have explosive populist upsurges, anti-system protests and nationalist outcries. during the pandemic, we were able to basically double the budget of the eu: with next generation eu, sure, react-eu, we got another eur 1 000 billion – exactly like the multiannual financial framework. we were kind of magic. now we have a similar challenge with the energy crisis. increasing resources for erasmus+, the just transition, is good news, but it is not enough. we need fresh money coming from new own resources to provide on-the-spot responses to gas deprivation and energy prices. we cannot lose the credit we had during the pandemic. we cannot lose the battle against inequalities and social despair. we cannot lose face in front of our people’s expectations. we simply cannot.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is facing its greatest challenge, that of reviewing its economic governance. the stability pact has shown its weaknesses over the years and no longer meets the needs of the european citizens. the time has come for a fundamental reform that will put an end to austerity once and for all and promote green investment and the sustainable energy transition, which are also necessary to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in this house. however, we regret that the commission's work programme this year also lacks action for full equality for lgbtq+ people, a promise made by president ursula von der leyen right here in 2020. the paternity and even the union of many gay couples are not recognised anywhere in europe and this is an injustice that we must address immediately. i therefore expect the european commission to present a legislative initiative to defend the rights of all as soon as possible. enough with the discrimination.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, vice-president, it was very interesting to hear you speak and i hope that you are right in building this shield for european countries quickly, consisting of the cer directive, the nis 2, the cyber resilience act, that it is really effective, otherwise mr glucksmann will be right, who has already highlighted our delays. so i ask you: will this regulatory framework be able to be as fast as the attacks are? and the second question is: the administrative burden on our companies, on businesses, to be able to align themselves with risk reduction, will also reduce their competitiveness compared to other businesses in the world? so what can the european union do to support these companies? yes, with guidelines, but also with resources.
mr. vice president, did you know that italy is the seventh country in the world for cyber attacks? the first country in europe. it is therefore necessary to support an important process because italy is a strategic country with regard to some major infrastructures; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what are you going to do?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many years ago europe decided to abolish the internal frontiers between its member states in order to develop the exchange of goods and people on a continental scale. this has helped to develop networks, infrastructure and trade within the different areas of europe. but prosperity and economic development cannot be achieved unless they are accompanied by the fulfilment of a fundamental duty: the security. the roman empire was based on the pax romana, which guaranteed the peoples within it to prosper, while the emperor's legions guarded its borders, administering the possibility for the barbarians to enter or not. when border security was lost, the prosperity of the peoples was lost. let us ask ourselves how we intend to administer and defend this european peace if we give up internal security and the defence of external frontiers. for years the countries bordering the mediterranean have been the ones regulating the inflows that then flow into the whole of europe. in the years of leftist rule, the policy of indiscriminate reception has brought in hundreds of thousands of irregular migrants. now, fortunately for us, the league has returned to power in italy, right on the southern border of europe, and we italians will be doing this immense job of controlling and guarding our european borders. we expect your support.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not every single refugee from ukraine is under our protection. i really mean all the people from ukraine who then come to us. i am also talking about the roma who come to us and have great problems at the borders. i am referring to third-country nationals who work there or are present there in any way. i mean students and people who aren't ready to take up arms. we therefore also call for the protection of russian oppositionists, but also of conscientious objectors and deserters, and of all, not just russians. there must be rules, open channels. with all the things you've portrayed here, there's no such thing. we need political asylum for these people, we need humanitarian visas that can be distributed in the eu embassies of all countries, not just individual ones. a stop to deportation is necessary for these people. i would also like to say one thing in conclusion: it is also a moral question whether these people are also given support. because the best way to end wars is to not go.
mr. president, i have to ask you... hungary is making extraordinary efforts to welcome ukrainian refugees as part of the largest humanitarian action in its history. we are one of the eu member states that has the largest number of ukrainian refugees per capita. the refugee relief efforts are continuing... (president interrupts speaker)
do we have interpreting? yes, start again please.
mr. president, i have to ask you... hungary is making extraordinary efforts to welcome ukrainian refugees as part of the largest humanitarian action in its history. we are one of the eu member states that has the largest number of ukrainian refugees per capita. the provision of care for refugees is continuous and comprehensive. thousands of ukrainian children are being placed in our public schools. we provide hospital beds for over a thousand patients, and we spend on medical equipment and we help ukrainian soldiers rehabilitate. while the war has brought 1.5 million war refugees from the east, mostly women, children and the elderly, the number of illegal immigrants from the south - mostly young men - arriving on the western balkans route is growing rapidly. armed groups are organized to attack border guards. this also shows the need to strengthen the union's external borders. instead of the failed migration strategy in brussels, support should be given to the member states that ensure the protection of the union's external borders, including hungary.
(the speaker begins his speech in english) the russian war of aggression against ukraine has several facets which are increasing the migratory pressure and the humanitarian pressure in the european union space. on the one hand, the ukrainian citizens, where the european response has been excellent, has been very, very, very strong, has been very helpful to these families who are hopefully able to return. we cannot, however, rule out, with the increase in the violence of the russian attacks, a new wave of ukrainian refugees, since the war has escalated and is now at a much more severe stage than it was a few weeks ago. but a second point we must also draw attention to is that there is at the moment a state, serbia, which has visa-free agreements with a number of countries and is greatly increasing the flow of migrants to europe, particularly from cuba, india, tunisia and burundi. at the various european borders, whether in hungary, croatia, greece, or even partly in romania and bulgaria, we see the arrival of this new flow of migrants and it is essentially done, as lukashenko did in belarus. the idea is to bring as many citizens as possible to the european area, in order to create a stress at european borders. this action by serbia cannot be accepted and must be strongly condemned.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the horrors of this war continue to be witnessed by many of us, and with the goodwill of much of the international community. the bombings are multiplying, the civilian casualties are increasing, those who can leave everything and flee, fuelling the flows to europe, which this time welcomes, activates a directive and shows solidarity, but which unfortunately fails to create the opportunity to create a systemic reform of immigration and asylum policies. i ask the commission: we are not going to be able to do that in the near future, i think, but we are going to be able to do that in the future, in the very near future, to enforce the rights of those citizens in many parts of asia and africa who depend on russia and ukraine for their food. we are not going to allow them to knock on our doors, as we have done with the ukrainian citizens, or are we going to regard them as victims of exploitation, or, even worse, are we going to reject them as enemies, perhaps with the complicity of some european agency?
madam president, (start of speech off microphone) meeting the council will reaffirm the eu military, humanitarian and financial assistance to ukraine. the commission could propose a more structural solution by granting ukraine eur 1.5 billion per month in 2023. as for military aid, the eu has so far provided eur 2.5 billion to ukraine and the foreign affairs council a few days ago agreed an additional eur 500 million and a new eu military assistance mission for ukraine with an envelope of eur 106 million. how will this new expenditure be justified in front of the european court of auditors, which in its last audit report has issued an adverse opinion on eu budget expenditure, and on this precise chapter explicitly recommends the commission to take appropriate action to reduce outstanding commitments in the long term? moreover, after adopting eight packages of sanctions on russia, the european council wishes to introduce additional sanctions that, as previous ones did, will just heavily harm eu citizens and assets. at the same time, the only concrete measures so far introduced to contain high energy prices is just rationing to curb demand, which will lead to further downturn in economic dynamics. we are on the edge of an abyss. shall we dive into it to understand that it will kill us?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to address those who have strongly supported this debate today, namely the european left. once again you want to convince us that governments are only democratic when you win the elections, or, even better, when you go to government, perhaps without an electoral mandate, just as has happened for many years in italy. obsessed with those who think differently from you, you are holding this parliament hostage and preventing us from dealing with the real problems of europe. there is no danger from the right, no evidence, just a lot of prejudice and cheap propaganda. let's talk about the danger of the anti-democratic left: since you lost touch with the real issues you disrespect the popular vote and you put democratically elected governments in the lurch. we are talking about the danger of the european left, which is not ashamed to make deals with dictators in the middle of the world and which is pressing for turkey to join europe, an absurdity which only the european right opposed. then enough of this charade. the only danger facing this house today is that it will waste valuable time discussing expensive energy, expensive bills and wage-eating inflation. so if not out of respect for us, at least out of respect for those who elected us, let this parliament work seriously, give concrete answers that the citizens expect. because, dear leftists, citizens are not convinced by accusations but by serious, concrete and credible programmes, and the elections in italy have shown you that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we are again participating in a debate today which we hoped would not be pure propaganda or one which would lead to factionalism if the italian right wing were called into question. the attempt to label a specific political party as extreme is evident, with the intention of criminalizing the electoral results which, even in a founding nation of europe such as italy, have been there. telling the story of an anti-european right-wing underlines the precise desire to tell a reality that does not exist, since the italian right-wing has always been, over the decades, pro-european and rooted in the west. in the last thirty years the italian right has participated in national governments, has elected tens of thousands of administrators, hundreds of mayors and regional presidents, i myself have been mayor of a large city, we have carried out our political and administrative action in accordance with the italian constitution and the laws and we have submitted ourselves, at the end of the mandate, to the judgment of the electors. now the italians have given a large majority to the centre-right and giorgia meloni, leader of the brothers of italy, is preparing to chair the italian government. we do not need any rehabilitation and we will continue to fight all forms of extremism and violence.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the left side of this house is not going to rest. every month, he generates a right-wing insulting debate. this is often called the hungary or poland debate, but now that citizens in two more member states have dared to vote en masse for right-wing parties, it was time to put a broader mudslinging on the agenda. you are doing this at a time when it is more necessary than ever to stick together and focus on how to jointly remedy the grave situation caused by the war and the sanctions. you've been shouting "snake" to the right in italy and sweden in the campaign. and then, because it didn't work, because the citizens didn't buy your insulting words, they're trying to retaliate. much of the left has long been anti-european. how come they put all these labels on governments that are in the process of forming? you think the left side has a center and the right side has an edge. why didn't they cry wolf when in spain the maduro regime's favorite, the far-left podemos, was elevated to the socialist sánchez government? or when in hungary, the anti-semitic, anti-gypsy jobbik teamed up with the socialists and liberals? you're now post-fascist, and the crimes of communism and nazism are forgivable? enough of this double standard. i want more respect for the people's free and democratic choice.
mr president, the far right, which is now present in many european countries, is illiberal and therefore opposed to european democratic values, the separation of powers and the rule of law. it is nationalistic and xenophobic, and therefore opposed to human rights, the rights of migrants and minorities. it is also populist and eurosceptic, and therefore opposed to the european project. and these are not insults, this is the exact description of the political reality that is the extreme right in europe today. and that is why we must say that the governmental and parliamentary alliances which the centre-right and the liberals are now making with the far-right in various european countries are not only a dangerous game which normalises and strengthens the far-right, but also a betrayal of our european values. and so this debate is not just about the far right, it is about whitewashing them, it is about mr berlusconi, about mr tajani, about the epp, about the renew liberals. the cordon sanitaire is not discrimination, the cordon sanitaire is a response in legitimate defence of democracy and a respect we owe to the mandate we have received from our own voters. it is time for the centre-right and liberals to think twice before they continue this dangerous game and before it is too late.
mr president, commissioner, the european far right lives on the propaganda it spreads on social networks and the falsification of history, and thanks to the impunity that in some states prevents the investigation of crimes against humanity committed by dictatorships such as franco's. i am not going to go into the details of the reasons why the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the council of ministers is able to take the necessary decisions. preventing the return of the darkest past requires truth, justice and reparation. these interested amnesia feed back. turning them into a media spectacle is a whitewash. and distinguishing between good and bad amnesia qualifies whoever plays that game. the annual report on the rule of law in the union should therefore pay more attention to this issue. the memory policies are a matter for the member states, but the principles which inspire them are a european matter. when they are violated, we must report it and we must act.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all remember in this house the former mep lorenzo fontana who wore a pro-putin shirt. today fontana, who has also called gay couples "crap", is the third in command of the italian state. we're not doing any better in the senate, because the second-in-command, la russa, is showing off on television her collection of mussolini busts, which she keeps at home. the responsibility for all this has a name and a surname and that is the european people's party. for a few more seats, the party which was the party of de gasperi, adenauer and schuman, the founding fathers of this europe, today denies its identity and aligns itself with those who express eurosceptic, nationalist and xenophobic policies. this virus will also unfortunately arrive here in the european institutions. tomorrow the far right will sit in the council, and will probably become european commissioners. how much damage will they do to the european project, i wonder? so, mr president, this parliament, united, is isolating the far right and defending european values, as the five star movement will do in europe and italy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not falling into that trap. they come to give us a lesson, they explain that the extreme right in italy won the elections and therefore can do whatever they want and we just have to be quiet. but you didn't. we are determined to speak out, to oppose, to tell what the far right is. because this is the far right that even radicalized what little was left of berlusconi's liberal party, it is the far right that elected as its most important positions a nostalgic of fascism and a hyper-traditionalist for whom homophobia is the norm. this is the extreme right that is pro-european in italy and then comes here to dismantle, piece by piece, the union, the extreme right of closed ports, of naval blockades, so that all migrants are illegal, better nativism, where we are all the same, all identical because we all live in the same neighborhood and we are not afraid. so we will not be silent in the face of this, no one will shut us up, we will speak, we will demonstrate, because we like differences, we like democracy, we like pluralism and we leave all the hatred to you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, david sassoli said of the resistance and nazi-fascism: the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way. so it is chilling to think that in italy - and i say this as an italian - important institutional positions are being taken by figures like ignazio benito la russa or lorenzo fontana, who are terrifying in terms of their ties with putin, their values and principles regarding civil and human rights. we cannot afford to be complacent about this. we must resist, as many of our colleagues have said, and that means not being complicit, dear friends of the epp, but also asking ourselves why a certain right wing, which often wants to blow up europe, is still standing. i believe that part of the answer lies in the fact that there is a social anger, fuelled by nationalism, which also arises from the mistakes that these institutions have made in the field of economic and social policy, mistakes which must be corrected with determination and courage. a fairer europe will be able to defend itself much better.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, congratulations on your appointment, mr president. the court's study of the eu's financial situation shows us how far we still have to go to have a truly effective and efficient budget. the court stressed that there were still too many budgetary errors and that all the expenditure on the erdf had to be managed. these conclusions are urgent and strongly express the need for efficient management of expenditure, especially in the light of the present downturn. first covid, now russia's war against ukraine and the worrying energy crisis with the concomitant rise in prices. the budget has been increased, and rightly so, because the eu is mobilising its resources and providing greater flexibility to respond to the crisis. in a context where resources are needed to help our citizens and our businesses in a concrete way, errors in the european budget must be reduced as much as possible and there is a need for a stronger fight against fraud, also improving the recovery of money that has been wrongly paid.
madam president, mr murphy, congratulations, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the court has again delivered a negative opinion on the european commission's budgetary management in 2021, noting a high error rate in several specifically identified expenditure headings. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of the region, including the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of the region. the eca therefore recommended that the commission ensure that vaccine manufacturers comply with the terms of the ppas. the court then pointed out the risk to the european budget of high-risk loans and credits to ukraine turning into liabilities, recommending measures to reduce existing financial commitments and mitigate the risk of ukraine's insolvency, but so far the commission has totally ignored these recommendations, exposing the eu budget to certain future losses. it is therefore brazen to ask member states for more resources to deal with the difficulties arising from a commission decision which does not intend to correct the course to bring the eu budget back on a sustainable footing. the money of the european taxpayers must be managed with diligence and prudence and if the commission does not intend to do so, we will draw the appropriate conclusions.
the european union has been a community of shared values and intentions, a beacon of democracy and the rule of law, since the signing of the treaty of rome. by promoting peace, our states have become stronger together. enlargement is now an essential objective for strengthening the union and promoting more peace and more stability, prosperity and security. although alignment with the common foreign and security policy is not a formal criterion for enlargement negotiations, we now understand its vital importance and impact in the current geopolitical context in terms of international relations, starting from the great added value of our participation in nato. we are aware of russia's continuing attempts to draw the countries of the region into its zone of influence, and we reiterate that the western balkans remain the strategic priority of the european union and its member states. we are intensifying our efforts to offer the western balkans full participation in our economic, energy and health plans and we are also seeking to improve the infrastructure connections that are possible. the current global situation is reflected in this year's enlargement package, which substantially expands the analysis of the international position of the various countries involved. i thank you, commissioner várhelyi, for the work you are doing together with the commission, the high representative, the special representative for the facilitated dialogue belgrade-pristina, for your determination to continue to strengthen europe and the prospect of freedom and democracy for those countries which must be able to become ever closer.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president von der leyen has said that the western balkans belong to the european family, but this statement seems to be dictated more by geopolitical considerations than by real convictions. europe must work to ensure that these areas do not end up in the russian orbit. in the case of bosnia, we need to push bosnian leaders to implement reforms that they have failed to do in ten years. in bosnia there is a great danger: the islamic fundamentalism. it is a muslim-majority country, with influences from turkey, saudi arabia and qatar, which fund mosques often not moderate. finally, we cannot ignore the fact that there is a huge immigration problem linked to the balkan route, which the european commission is not addressing and which can no longer be ignored.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the istanbul convention is an international treaty to combat violence against women. well, today we voted on the draft general budget of the european union for the 2023 financial year and there was an amendment that asked that the eu budget not fund any future campaign that could promote hijab. well, this house voted against it. so on the one hand you are in solidarity with the iranian women who are fighting for their freedoms, including the freedom not to wear the islamic veil, and on the other hand you have decided that parliament and the european union can finance campaigns which promote the very veil against which the women themselves are protesting in iran. so, i find it sickening hypocrisy and i would ask you at least a little coherence out of respect for those many women who are risking their lives to defend the freedom not to wear the islamic veil.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few months is all it took to bring about a collapse in world food security. the war in ukraine, the global shortage, the general panic. with a chain effect, the great powers began to ban agricultural exports. china, india, malaysia and the united states have decided to protect themselves at the expense of those who, like the european union, relied on these products. in fact, in a few months' time, the european union has been confronted with a crisis involving fuels, fertilisers and foodstuffs, in particular wheat, maize and vegetable oils. these raw materials are experiencing low stocks, reduced production and disrupted supply chains. what do you do? at the global level, the g20 summit in bali called for a formal commitment from the world's major economies to focus on food security and lift trade restrictions. at european level, we must review the supply policies pursued so far, which are heavily dependent on the outside world, and we must start producing again and strengthen our food sovereignty. as an italian, i want to commend the technological and digital advances of our agricultural sector, which, by combining innovation and tradition, continues to provide us with safe and quality products. local produce that we need to value, not sabotage from within with follies like nutri-score, which make corporations fat at the expense of citizens. now is the time for action, to ensure food on our tables. enough with the ideology.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, art, beauty and culture are the antidote to violence and horror and the highest form of human expression. today, with the return of bombs and tanks to the heart of europe, which are the responsibility of putin, and tens of thousands of innocent people forced to abandon their homes and their lives to face fear and the unknown, we must be firm in rejecting the logic of war and oppression and ready to offer our solidarity to the ukrainian cultural world and try to maintain the thread of dialogue. the war has hit artists, cultural workers and the academic world hard, spreading a climate of fear, at the expense of artistic freedom, freedom of teaching and expression. art and culture will then have the difficult role of healing these wounds, rebuilding countries and ties, and for this we owe a great tribute to those artists and creators who did not stop in the face of barbarism, but reacted by continuing to practice their art, art as a form of resistance and critical thinking, as well as free and independent journalism. we must pay attention to the ukrainian cultural heritage. cultural and historical works are a treasure to be protected with all the legal instruments at our disposal to protect and prevent the illegal trafficking of works of art. this crisis has demonstrated the need to set up - and i am particularly referring to the commission - a european response and recovery mechanism dedicated to cultural heritage and the cultural ecosystem. a mechanism that brings together public and private partners and that takes into account the strategic role that philanthropy can play in supporting the cultural world, just as it is important that we invest strongly again in creative europe. art and culture in general speak the language of peace. they belong to the whole world. weapons are instruments of destruction. culture and education are bridges, informal diplomacy, they foster dialogue. the conflict has created a false vision, which blames anyone who defends freedom of artistic expression. the polarization has also sparked criticism and harassment of russian intellectuals, artists and scientists, and has helped isolate those who have spoken out against putin's misguided choices. racism towards the ukrainian world and the attempt to "wipe out" ukrainian culture are simply unacceptable. the responsibility for the war lies with putin and his authoritarian regime. but i also want to say that these responsibilities have nothing to do with the extraordinary artistic, literary and musical production that russia has given to the world over the centuries. we need to hit putin, not the culture. protecting the role of cultural dialogue is the first step towards a ceasefire and post-war peace.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a precedent. we are concerned about this regulation, not only for the reasons which have been stated by my colleagues, but also because it may set a precedent for other seas. i am thinking of the mediterranean sea, for example, or my adriatic sea, where a ban on trawling would be detrimental to our fisheries and our economy. fisheries management is a complex matter in general and trawling is no exception. the fleet is specialized. to stop this trade would mean to destroy the fleet itself. much has been done and is still being done for the european cod, both in the common fisheries policy and in national policies. progress must be made in the right direction by means of gradual adjustments, assessing the impact of the measures, the response of stocks, the economic and productive performance of a sector which is facing substantial investment, employment and a flourishing market. in short, we must be sustainable in the full sense of the term. instead, we have seen for years a demonization of fishing, and in particular of trawling. the real problem is that we do not want to distinguish between the targeted, sustainable and cutting-edge trawling that our fishermen use and that which is practised by third countries, which are predators of the deep sea without reservations. this is nothing but worrying and discouraging for european fishermen, who are distressed by continuous policies of reduction and prohibition, even where there is a commitment and a desire to be sustainable and above all to survive. the commission must then take responsibility for saying that it wants to dismantle the european union's fishing fleet, that it wants to import only fish and fish products from outside the eu, perhaps from the same countries that have yellow and red cards for iuu fishing. i ask you, commissioner, do you really want the death of european fisheries? if the intention is to kill the italian and european traitor, you must say so clearly. but you must know that you will meet with stiff opposition from this parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since 2016 this parliament has been discussing the crucial importance of vulnerable marine areas for the environmental and economic balance of our seas and how best to preserve them, but after so many years, despite the steps already taken, we are still here discussing them rather than taking action. and it is wrong, even inconceivable, for at least three reasons. one: the commission has not yet received any comments from interested parties. a political reason, because already on 9 october we expressed our position by voting for the ocean government resolution. and then there's an environmental reason, because by definition these are the most vulnerable marine areas, with ecosystems that take up to a hundred years to regenerate. so let's stop arguing, let's defend our seas, let's preserve the future of our fishermen, because by defending the seas we help healthy and sustainable fishing and it is important to defend our fishermen, their children and the culture linked to fishing and the care of the sea.
mr president, dear colleagues, we have learned the lesson from the pandemic that from tragedies coming from outside we are able to find our unity and the soul of europe. what we have done with the common debt, sure and next gen has been revolutionary. now, on gas and energy, we really have the same challenge and we cannot take the luxury of time. so we need again a stronger europe for at least three things: a cap on gas; a centralised purchasing agency for gas; social investments for families and companies not able to pay their bills. but for all that we need a strong europe, a stronger europe. i am very tired of listening to anti—european, extreme right parties that are now asking for european money, european assistance, european aid. where were you when we spoke about strengthening the competences of our european institutions? you always said ‘no’. so now we need a united europe, a europe that delivers. we have to decide. we can do things if we are united – and please do tell the truth!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i disagree with the council's conclusions, and in particular with the ascription of all responsibility for the energy crisis to russia alone, which began well before the war in ukraine began because of unsustainable european policies, which have demonized fossil and nuclear sources by investing everything in renewables, which are insufficient to meet our energy needs and by consolidating our dependence on foreign supplies, which is unchanged today. the general condemnation of the sabotage of the nord stream pipeline, which overlooks the suspected western matrix of attacks. the european union must continue to impose boomerang sanctions on russia and to extend billions of dollars of loans to ukraine, a country at high risk of default, thus threatening the economic and financial stability of the union. the rejection of the popular will expressed in referendums by peoples to whom we should guarantee democracy, because the results are different from those desired by europe. and finally, on the criminalisation of dissent, including calls for a negotiated peace in ukraine through legislative proposals that undermine freedom of expression. this is not the europe in which i recognize myself and claim the right to assert myself and to fight for democracy and peace, today and always, here and wherever possible.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, i would like to support this report by budg and econ in all its parts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our task was, above all, to generate 20 billion from the ets. it was a difficult decision for many of my colleagues. but we have found a way to maintain the ambition of the ets and still get the 20 billion: through what is called frontloading. this will depress prices in the emissions trading. but i think it's a good side effect this winter and next winter, when a lot of people are worried and a lot of companies are facing big challenges. the climate targets are still being met because the allowances are being maintained overall. i would like to conclude by addressing the commission. i am not saying that the council should be the only one to do so. the council wants to loot the innovation fund. at a time when the americans are putting 200 billion dollars on the table to attract industry, the council is cutting our funding for this industry, for innovation. this can't happen. parliament is on the right track here. the council is at a dead end, and we need to get it out.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, mr vice-president, mr commissioner, for us, for the european parliament and what we have produced in the european parliament's committee responsible for energy, repowereu means an approach in support of the people: to have energy, to have energy that is cheap, that can be affordable, that every citizen can pay his bill, to have energy that can be at a predictable price for industry, for small and medium-sized enterprises, so that we can preserve jobs. and every member state, according to what i have proposed and will put to the vote tomorrow, means that they have to develop their energy sources, have renewable energy that is put into practice tomorrow. each member state should be able to adjust its national recovery and resilience plans, because the effect of the war in ukraine has been devastating for so many countries, for so many economies, with very important social consequences. and the last thing is that for all those who have a problem paying their bills, they are obliged to come and present to the european commission what those concrete measures and support are so that all those who need support can get support in paying their energy bills this winter.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. what is repowereu? repowereu is about galloping energy bills and the question of whether europe can manage its energy supply autonomously. we have therefore acted swiftly and purposefully in this energy crisis. we have launched repowereu. we have to do this now. the strategy includes the aim of becoming independent from russian energy sources and repowereu also aims to help relieve people. the sum is 300 billion euros. it's not nothing, it's a lot of money. in my area of responsibility, the committee on regional policy, it was specifically about eur 27 billion. we're one of the funding options; the commission's proposal is to say yes to funding for repowereu objectives, but we say, following the method of the structural funds, that this is very important. and another suggestion from the committee was that we could use unused funds from the last grant period. the commission is proposing to increase the amount of the aid to the countries of central and eastern europe by ecu 40 billion. we can help with that in the short term. i think that's a good idea. this redirection of the structural funds is a red line. it is important to our committee: parliament is prepared to do so. we can't screw this up. the people, the people out there, expect us to do just that.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as the author of the opinion on agriculture, i have to say: repowereu a good idea. and even if agriculture is not involved, or, rather, does not have to be involved, it is still a good idea. perhaps there are three aspects, three reasons why the committee on agriculture decided against making funds available for repowereu: firstly, the budget: 20 billion in total. the agricultural sector would have been in the dark here. but the second, and more important, point is the philosophy of support: support in rural areas, which is, of course, the bottom-up principle. the people on the ground should decide what the money is used for. it's for the farmers and for small business, it's for the people. and thirdly, the main argument: everything described in repowereu use of renewable energy, use for rural areas is already possible in the foreground of rural areas today, but for people, for small businesses. and that is why we wish repowereu all the best. the rural areas are involved in their support programmes, and i ask the commissioner to be careful here too: the member states are very keen to use agriculture as a financial quarry. you can't do that!
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, two years ago, we were working together on devising the recovery and resilience facility – an unprecedented demonstration of eu solidarity arising from the challenges posed by the covid—19 pandemic. now, today, two years later, we are faced with another crisis, triggered by russia’s unprovoked invasion of ukraine. again, as the eu has set out a coordinated response, we are moving to stop our dependence on russian fossil fuels. the commission would like to thank the honourable members for your intense work on the proposals to introduce repowereu chapters in the national recovery and resilience blocks. essentially, it’s focused on green and digital transitions and the rrf remains the best—suited instrument to address the energy challenges emerging from the current geopolitical context. in fact, the rrf has already shown itself to be an efficient tool of quickly deploying financial support in times of crisis and bring about ambitious investments and reforms that respond to the common european priorities in a manner tailored to national circumstances. with a proposal to enable member states to tap into additional funding and introduce repowereu chapters into their recovery and resilience plans, we will leverage the strengths of the rrf framework to respond to russia’s mobilisation on energy markets. now, more important than ever, it is vital to accelerate a green transition, increase the use of renewables and raise the energy efficiency of our building stock and industrial processes. the commission welcomes the strong work done by parliament. we look forward to the expedient handling of the legislative process to make the repowereu chapters a reality. the member states have already started to consider measures to feature in their repowereu chapters. they should now start to accelerate those preparations as the legislative process moves forward. it will also be important for these new investments and reforms to take into account the eu’s collective energy security so that measures taken by one member state can reinforce those taken by others. we hope that tomorrow’s vote will again demonstrate the strength and determination of our european unity and solidarity.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the energy union is essential for the european union and repowereu is very positive in this respect. however, there are some problems here, and i would draw the commission's attention to them. there will be no energy independence for the european union without cross-border projects and interconnections. that leaves one question: what are the cross-border interconnections and projects that the european commission is advocating? we should have met them by now. they should be quantified by now, so that they can be financed later. what the european commission has done is to announce a nice sum of 300 billion euros, but it does not define what is really essential, taking a risk. because this is going to be in addition to the recovery and resilience plans, which are currently in poor execution. a country like portugal, for example, needs interconnections, crossborder projects and the proper implementation of these funds, and there must be no national selfishness, as mr macron in france has shown, which has made it impossible to implement a project that was essential for the european union and for portugal.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the current energy crisis and the high inflation require urgent decisions. tomorrow, the european parliament is called upon to vote on this regulation, which allows member states to amend their national recovery and resilience plans by including new reforms and investments in energy related projects financed by additional requests for grants and loans. the urgency of the situation leaves no option but to proceed quickly to the negotiations with other eu institutions and deliver to our citizens. as the european parliament, our proposal is to ensure that projects aim at tackling energy poverty for households and smes can benefit from this funding. this has been one of our group’s priorities. we have also included a provision requiring mandatory consultations with social partners and other civil society stakeholders, as we have noticed the lack of proper consultation during the drafting of the national recovery and resilience plans. it is also important that we ensure that members are allowed to amend their plans due to the consequences of war inflation by including various measures such as social housing. we also support cross—border projects and include a reference for the eu to give particular consideration to remote, peripheral and isolated regions and islands which already experience additional constraints. the rrf, with the repowereu chapter, is an important instrument for member states to cope with the short-term effects of energy crises, safeguarding security of supply and accelerating the long-term transition towards a decarbonised energy system. however, this is not the end, and for certain this is not enough. we need more courageous decisions immediately by the council and the commission, such as a reform of eu economic and fiscal governance, eu fiscal capacity and common tools to respond to economic shocks on a european level, learning from experience. because, after all, our job is to deliver to the eu citizens.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, tomorrow we will be voting in this house on another historic milestone for the european union: repowereu. with this text we adapt the recovery funds to the energy crisis. repowereu is not about improving energy supply in poland or storage in spain; repowereu is about ensuring that no household or business ever runs out of energy on european soil. however, receiving funds from the european union comes with responsibility. that's why, when we passed the recovery funds two years ago, this house called for reforms instead. we got countries like spain to commit to very important reforms that had been pending for decades, for example, to make their pension system more sustainable or their labour market more efficient. the european socialists now want to scrap these reforms; they are removing a phrase from the commission's proposal which explicitly prohibits using the energy crisis as an excuse to change the reforms which have been committed to. if the socialists' text is adopted tomorrow, we will be putting the credibility of our economies at risk, and good luck if we want to repeat in the future a recovery package like nextgenerationeu. ladies and gentlemen, we will do whatever it takes to overcome the energy crisis, but please, let's not create another crisis to pay for this one.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources. recently it has become clear to everyone in our part of the world that energy security and energy independence are essential, strategically invaluable and necessary for our free way of life. repowereu should help to reduce our energy dependence in the short term without taboos, including in the area of investments in oil and gas supply. parliament rightly calls for crossborder investment to form a solid european network. repowereu was created as an extension of the national recovery and resilience plans. it should ensure rapid implementation, but should under no circumstances undermine the much-needed reforms already agreed under the recovery and resilience plans.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, tackling the energy crisis requires drastic measures and repowereu is a positive step. but, mr dombrovskis and mr gentiloni, the european parliament, united from the centre-right to the left, is calling for substantial and drastic improvements to the commission's proposal. first of all, an increase in funding, because the 20 billion which the commission is recycling from the european recovery fund, the fund for farmers and the policies for social and regional cohesion are not enough. president von der leyen has promised additional funding. we ask the commission to commit itself to this because the council wants to achieve its objectives without money, which is impossible. to have more energy independence, more renewable energy and to tackle energy poverty, we need more money.
mr president, tomorrow’s vote marks an important step ahead towards addressing some structural problems which are emerging in the current energy crisis by means of investments for new infrastructure, for example, for renewable energy production and for overcoming energy supply distortion. the resources at stake are important: eur 20 billion in grants and more than eur 200 billion in loans that are unused under the rrf. however, we asked – and we will keep asking – for more resources, because the challenges of the current energy crisis are much bigger than the resources that are finally allocated. let’s face it, we all know what is at stake: the competitiveness of our businesses; the fragility of our families and households; energy poverty. so more resources will be needed. and not only resources, as to address the energy crisis we will need reforms in the energy market – temporary ones and structural ones. we know what we are talking about: a new benchmark for gas prices; a dynamic cap that we’ve been discussing; the decoupling of gas and electricity prices. we know what we have to do, now it’s time to deliver.
mr president, this war in ukraine clearly shows our vulnerability as europe: geopolitically, being dependent of a fossil regime in russia; economically, inflation being fossil-flation; and environmentally, exactly what we are trying to discuss at this moment in egypt, trying to get rid of our fossil dependency. that is at stake and that’s why it’s also so important to have a credible european investment plan that can bring us out of this current energy system into a new system. and that’s also why we commend the commission proposal, because indeed, this enables us to invest in new energy infrastructure cross-border. however, commission, don’t make the same mistakes. don’t make the mistakes that we are creating another fossil dependency. now it’s called lng. but just a very simple number: lng imports from russia are increasing this year with 46%. and this is why we need to limit the investment in fossil in time and in size in order to make sure that this investment plan is really into a new economy.
the european union's dependence on russia for energy supplies is a problem which must not be solved by panic football but by proper analysis. the high energy prices resulting from liberalization and speculation, as well as the rejection of nuclear energy, make our dependence on russia unbearable. but the eu is to blame for this. these cases are the result of eu policies. the eu is exploiting this energy crisis, which it has itself caused, to expand its political power in an unprecedented way. parliament is watching. the commission is borrowing billions from the capital market for the economic recovery after the covid-19 pandemic and wants that money to be spent on other things now, to offset the consequences of its own misguided policies. it also degrades the governments of the member states into implementing organisations. i therefore advise all those who are against the expansion of the powers of the eu to vote against it tomorrow.
mr president the current global political situation has clearly indicated that europe needs to change its energy mix. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. yet, on the grounds of greening, eu support for oil developments was rejected by the budg and econ committees. unfortunately, this makes it impossible to transform the energy situation in our central european region in particular and to achieve energy independence. greening is important, but improving the systems we have is just as important. in this extremely difficult energy situation, stopping eu investment in oil would be another coup de grace, further weakening europe's own battered economy. we need to get back to the original purpose of repowereu, so support the amendments on oil and nuclear energy in tomorrow's vote!
mr president, dear colleagues, i voted in favour of care, fast-care, crii and crii+, and i will vote in favour of repower tomorrow: yet another initiative of european commission which is going to address yet another crisis that is facing european union. and nobody is against the willingness of the european union to overcome the dependence on russian gas and oil. that’s sure. nobody was against of the willingness of the european union to overcome the consequences of covid. nobody was against to overcome the consequences of the flood, the war in ukraine or the migrant crisis. but at some point we have to put everything on end because the european regional development policy and agriculture policy could not fund any new initiative that the european commission will start. we know it’s important, but we’re not going that way because after all, we are going to end two major policies of the union which are so important for every european citizen.
mr president, i would like to thank you. 250 million tonnes of waste. that is how much the commission wanted to increase emissions to bring in 20 billion euros. this is completely unacceptable. do you hear how sick that sounds? 250 million tons of increased emissions! this was completely unacceptable to me as a negotiator. we are in the midst of an energy crisis as a result of our dependence on gas - a dependence on gas that is also exacerbating the climate crisis. to let the climate pay 250 million tonnes is totally irresponsible. so i'm very proud that as a negotiator, i was able to help to find a solution that not only stops the increase in emissions, but also ensures that we stop funding fossil fuel projects and tighten the options for continuing to fund gas and oil. i will be proud to vote in favour of this proposal, and i hope that you will do the same.
sorry, it seems there is no interpretation on the headphones at the rostrum so we will have to skip that question, unfortunately.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner gentiloni, when the pnrrs were drawn up and approved, we were in a very different geopolitical context from the present one. a year ago, energy production was not a priority for us in europe, unfortunately, nor was renewable energy production. for example, in the italian plan, under the measure called 'renewables and batteries', only one billion euro was allocated, compared with the total of 190 billion, or 1 in 190. very little! so welcome the possibility of amending national plans so that we can invest in energy production from fossil fuels such as gas for as long as it is necessary. it was a tragic mistake to become dependent on energy imports from russia and china. let's not do it again. to err is human, but to persevere is diabolical.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank you, commissioner, for taking up our suggestion to deal with fertilisers and for presenting the communication today. unfortunately, i see more shadows than light in this announcement. i see little effort in the short term to improve the fertiliser situation in europe. the anti-dumping duties on trinidad and tobago and the usa could have been suspended; i'm afraid that's not part of the communication. i see a lot of good long-term approaches that you've described - so far, so good - particularly the increased use of organic fertilisers. however, the possible solutions already on the table are mentioned only in a footnote, such as renure, struvit, stripping or regional flexibilities under the nitrates directive; they are either mentioned in passing or in a footnote or not at all. i would say that the commission has unfortunately fallen short of the expectations i would have had for this commission. i would ask you to look again at the situation in europe and the world and to act accordingly, not only in the longer term but also in the short term, in the interests of food security and our agriculture in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. in addition to high energy prices, food prices are also a very important driver of inflation in the european union. however, the communication does not contain any specific commitment to raise the use of renure above the standard for the use of animal manure. only with such a commitment can renure do what it was designed to do, namely replace and save fertiliser. in 70% of the eu, farmers are restricted in the use of their own animal manure. however, this restriction does not apply to the use of fertilisers. farmers must, often for a fee, dispose of their own animal manure and then buy expensive fertilizer to meet their crop needs. this is highly illogical. i am convinced, however, that the adoption of the new action plan for integrated nutrient management will give animal manure, and thus also renure, the recognition it deserves.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the war in ukraine and the energy crisis have had the effect of limiting the quantities of fertiliser available to farmers. in this context, the agricultural sector is facing one of the greatest challenges today with the increase in fertiliser prices, with an average of around 200%. in many cases, farmers are forced to reduce their activity, which implies a reduction in future production. the european commission, in today's communication, identifies some solutions which i would regard as insufficient, commissioner. the use of the agricultural crisis reserve should, in my view, be activated as early as 2023. member states were given the possibility to grant some state aid schemes to farmers, which they did. but we must understand, commissioner, that the action of the member states is limited by their own budgetary resources. that is why, in this context, i urge you to come up with new, serious money for the agricultural sector, if we really want to save it. in the long term, the european commission's objective must be to develop fertiliser production capacity within the european union, but in the short term it is vital to turn our attention to other third countries that are able to supply fertilisers to farmers in the european union at prices that are affordable for them.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner has just announced a communication on fertilisers, which i welcome as the subject is explosive for our european farmers. you recall measures that already exist: the prioritization of gas supplies for the fertiliser sector, flexibility in state aid... all of this is obviously in the right direction. however, these are essentially measures that have already been taken. these are also measures which refer to the member states. my question is therefore simple, commissioner: what is the real european strategy, what new measures are needed to cope with this explosion in costs and to make fertilisers more accessible to farmers? the risk, with this referral to the member states, is a risk of renationalisation, but also of fragmentation and competition at the level of the market and at the level of european farmers. finally, commissioner, you did not want to lift the anti-dumping duties on fertilisers produced by third countries. i think we need a measure along these lines here too. beyond a strategy for fertilisers, we need a strategy for food security.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for the message we received today on food safety and the link with mineral fertilisers. you spoke yesterday to the committee on agriculture and again today about the scale of these increases and the cost to farmers. and indeed, he himself and the european farmers expect some concrete help from the commission. the measures you have mentioned are measures which, i must simply say, i do not know what to tell the farmers to help themselves. by encouraging investment in hydrogen to produce ammonia from natural sources, i do not know whether we will save european farmers, but neither will we save food security, because i am afraid that the fall in fertiliser consumption and consequently in crops will be so great that next autumn we will be more afraid than we were of whether there will be gas in european storage facilities, whether we will be afraid of whether there will be food in european soups. the way we're handling this message, i don't think we're going to solve the problem.
the commission has already done so. you can't praise much in a minute. that is why i have four critical remarks. firstly, we have heard from mr dorfmann that there is a loss of 44 billion, and that our agricultural catastrophes amount to 450 million. we're not gonna be able to figure this out. secondly, i would ask you to reconsider carefully. it would be important to suspend the import tax and the anti-dumping duty temporarily as a signal to our european farmers. third comment: promoting circular agriculture, organic fertilisers, taking a more bold approach in place. i would like to see some footnotes in the original text or vice versa. i ask you to make it clear to the commission that we need a circular agriculture, and that includes the proper re-use of organic fertilisers. my last request - the key word is harmonization - is that you have presented a package of measures. i am afraid that different member states will apply this extremely differently and that this will lead to distortions of competition. we've got to be careful. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
a member of the commission. - madam president! - i have to go. i thank all members for their very interesting, inspiring and sometimes critical comments on the communication. i expected this because the subject is difficult and in a short time we presented what the commission was able to propose to improve the situation. i did not say everything in my first speech, so i can only add that the issue of certain derogations relating to manure, the use of which is subject to certain limits, the application of certain derogations will be considered in the next document that the commission will present at the beginning of next year. integrated nutrient management action plan is the name of this document and this issue will be considered in this document. it is not closed, but we did not mention it in the communication in question because it requires more analysis and we were not able to address it in that short time. as regards the anti-dumping duties, it was a conscious decision not to decide to remove them. we have to protect our production. the european union is heavily dependent on imported fertilisers: for nitrogen fertilisers, it is around 30% and for phosphorus potash fertilisers, the majority is imported, so the protection of producers in the european union against dumping is simply necessary. we might have improved the situation in the very short term, but in the long term we could have made it worse and we could have lost what we have - the ability to produce locally. it's a real burden on public assistance, i'll give you that. in the common agricultural policy, which has a budget of €58 billion per year (that's about the amount available, which is overwhelmingly allocated to direct payments, to the second pillar programmes), there is little room for financial action from the eu budget. we all know that. that's how the common agricultural policy works. the possibilities for emergency intervention are limited, and this is essentially a reserve for emergency, to which we are open. and indeed, the burden of fighting the crisis has largely been shifted to public aid. i would like to remind you once again of the 455 billion euro that member states have allocated to public aid for the economy affected by the russian aggression against ukraine. we raise the issue of public aid to also point out to the member states that food safety issues should be more clearly identified and that this sector, such as fertiliser production, should be included. this then gives you the opportunity to control these entities (are they not making excessive profits?), to create a policy in this area. i know that this is not a long-term solution and that it is risky because it also creates some competitive inequalities in the market. but today we have no other instrument, which is why we are so strongly in favour of public aid. i think that the action that we are pointing out in the communication, that the public authorities try to take such action, to organize public purchases of fertilizer and distribute it at a lower, much lower price to the farmers, that would be some solution. aid to the production plants, to the fertiliser companies was necessary or is still necessary if only because at some point these plants stopped production. we had a situation like this in august, where a number of them, or a significant number of them, stopped production because because of the high energy costs, because they were not sure if the farmers would be able to buy fertilizer, so this kind of action is necessary. i think what we could offer at this point is contained in this communication. of course, we'll be analyzing and monitoring the situation at all times. there are certain things that will be in that document that i mentioned, which is due to be adopted early next year and which the commission is working on. i would just add that the commission has proposed the abolition of customs duties on imports of ammonia and urea. we are now awaiting the council's position on this matter. the anti-dumping duties, on the other hand, are intended to ensure the production of fertilisers in the european union and to protect our producers from dumping, which is always a bad thing and in the long term very dangerous. i would like to thank the house and the members for, firstly, the inspiration for this communication and, secondly, for a very interesting and important debate.
thank you, commissioner, for this very timely discussion. the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the report by pascal durand, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2013/34/eu, directive 2004/109/ec, directive 2006/43/ec and regulation (eu) no 537/2014, as regards corporate sustainability reporting (com(2021)0189 – c9-0147/2021 – 2021/0104(cod)) (a9-0059/2022).
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to begin by thanking all those who worked on this dossier, with a special word for the advisers and assistants who worked under absolutely incredible emergency conditions, and also thanking all the fictitious rapporteurs and all the fictitious rapporteurs i see in the room tonight who helped me, who helped us to ensure that this text could be presented in time and that it would take up the essence of the elements that were dear to us. we did so with a very constructive spirit, to the extent that this text was voted - as you know, madam commissioner - unanimously in the juri committee, which is rare. i also take this opportunity to thank, beyond your text, the commission services, who helped us find the answers and build this consensus with the council, since the council also unanimously adopted this proposal for a directive. so i won't go on too long: everyone knows this text in detail; i would just like to emphasize two points. this text is a major development in our view of business and the role of business in society. we are certain that the world in which we are currently operating is a changing and moving world, and europe wanted - this is an extremely important sovereignty issue - to be a law-maker on these extra-financial, environmental, social or human rights issues, that is to say, to be the originator of rules and texts, not to isolate itself, but to be able to discuss them on an equal footing and no longer simply be a debtor of texts that were imposed on us from outside. you have raised this essential question, madam commissioner. parliament has given its full support to this approach, to the desire to make europe, which has developed its green pact, its green taxonomy and its own vision of the implementation of the paris agreement, the main driver, including in the economic world. you know - i say this every time, but we must never forget - that the european union is certainly the place on this planet where we have the strongest balance between the three pillars of sustainable development: environmental issues, social issues and economic issues. we are trying to ensure that these three pillars are never separated from each other and that we move forward together. your directive, mrs mcguinness, perfectly incorporated that constraint. it has also perfectly integrated the fact that the short-term, often cynical vision of a society in which the first and foremost objective is to produce at low cost, to relocate, to exploit people, nature and the environment, is now outdated. this worldview is no longer desired by investors, who now want to ensure that the reputation of the company is not damaged and that the risks and effects it may have are taken into account, nor is it borne by society, by consumers, who want to know the conditions under which products are made. this is what this directive is about: moving away from the arbitrary declaration to standards that are shared, standardized and controlled. this is the strength of our union, this is the strength of the rule of law. you implemented it, we followed it too. it is now up to the member states to take their responsibilities on this matter and ensure that we have effective control of these declarations.
member of the commission. – madam president, colleagues, honourable members, i’m trying to catch the eye of our very committed rapporteur to say, at the very outset, thank you for your passion this evening and your commitment during the process. it is as a result of that and your collaboration with the shadow rapporteurs that we are able to have this debate and to sign off on this important piece of legislation. i think we are all reminded of the challenges we face, particularly this week as cop27 takes place in egypt. there is so much to do around climate and biodiversity, and we need both finance and information to be successful, to change the scenarios which are so alarming. it is a huge challenge. this debate on the corporate sustainability reporting directive, in my view, represents a very important achievement in our collective efforts towards a more sustainable economy and society. it will support and steer companies as they make the transition to more sustainable business models and a more sustainable economy. the directive will strengthen the rules on the environmental and the social information that companies have to report. for the first time – and this is how significant this debate and this directive is – we are putting sustainability reporting on an equal footing with financial reporting, and this is hugely significant, as other speakers have already alluded to. we need accurate and reliable information to ensure that investments are being made towards a more sustainable future. companies need the information to plan their transition paths, and investors need the information to have clarity about what they are investing in and to combat greenwashing. because greenwashing, if left unaddressed, could reduce investor confidence in sustainable investment products, not to mention public confidence in sustainable finance and in companies’ efforts to transition. clear and consistent disclosure requirements, together with the new assurance requirement, will improve the reliability of sustainability information. the final text of the directive provides a good basis for alignment with the proposed corporate sustainability due diligence directive, which is currently in trilogues. the text also addresses the particular situation of smes. only listed smes are subject to reporting requirements, and there are provisions to prevent smes in supply chains from being unduly burdened by trickle-down information requests from larger companies. the european financial reporting advisory group, efrac, is now in the process of improving its draft standards so that they are in line with the directive and implementable by companies. european standards need to strike a balance between providing useful information for investors and stakeholders and the potential cost and burden for reporting companies. the commission is fully committed to ensuring that this balance is achieve, considering the current economic situation. eu standards must take account of global standards, including the standards currently being developed by the international sustainability standards board, the issb. technical discussions between the commission, efrac and the issb are taking place to achieve as much commonality as possible between european and global standards. so i now look forward to the rest of this debate on what is a really ground—breaking piece of legislation that we must insist is implemented fully, and meets the needs of companies, investors and citizens.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new directive on corporate communication and sustainability is certainly an important step forward in improving the level of transparency on the behaviour of companies and also a lever to direct and improve their commitment. this is essential for achieving the objectives we have set ourselves, for countering the effects of the climate crisis, for respecting human rights, life, dignity, community, the rule of law, good governance practices. the transparency principle can only be the first step towards a new way of doing business, towards socially and environmentally responsible behaviour, behaviour which cannot be left to the goodwill of a few enlightened experiences, which obviously already exist and whose value must be underlined, but which must be governed by precise, uniform rules, rules which apply to everyone. we are therefore facing a very ambitious project, which refers to a more sustainable, more humane and more just globalisation, and it is a great opportunity that we cannot afford to lose.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the globalisation of capitalism is promoting the violation of human rights and the degradation of the environment. large companies in the european union, like those in the united states, rely on supply chains that originate in poor and therefore vulnerable countries. everyone remembers the 2013 rana plaza tragedy, a dilapidated building in bangladesh that housed workers working for major western brands and whose collapse caused more than 1,000 deaths. it is in an attempt to remedy this kind of abuse that the durand report, which we are debating, proposes to force large companies to publish information on the impact of their actions on human rights and the environment along their supply chain. during the discussions i had set two conditions in support of this text. first, exempt smes from this obligation, except on a voluntary basis, as most of them would have difficulty coping with it. secondly, to make large non-european companies operating in the union subject to it in order to avoid distorting competition in comparison with large european companies. both conditions have been met. i therefore support this text, which should respond to the legitimate aspirations of the european nations by initiating a moralisation of capitalism.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank mr durand for the excellent work he has done and, above all, for always listening to the different political positions, so much so that a consensus has been reached. at a time of great economic turmoil due to rising energy costs and the critical issues in some supply chains, we are faced with the difficult task of finding a balance between the competitiveness of our businesses and the need to promote sustainable and environmentally friendly business behaviour. that is why, throughout the legislative process, i have worked on behalf of the ecr group as a shadow rapporteur with the aim of reaching a pragmatic solution. we have succeeded in excluding small and mediumsized enterprises from the scope of application and in including non-european companies: a very important change. although the outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations includes some aspects which i would have preferred to exclude, i believe that we have managed to avoid a heavy bureaucratic burden for european companies by reaching a more balanced agreement than the initial proposal. for this, i thank all those who have contributed to this work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the new centre-right government in italy, immigration is once again a subject of discussion in the european union, and no longer only in italy. yes, because in recent years the european union has been in solidarity with italy's borders. that easy! most of the migrants are economic. you think that the top three countries of origin of the immigrants who land in italy are egypt, tunisia, bangladesh, countries where there is no war. rescue is a duty; another thing, though, is to increase human trafficking. italy cannot be the refugee camp of the european union. i wonder where the european union is. where's the port rotation? where is the relocation of migrants? since the beginning of august, 44 000 migrants have landed in italy. do you know how many were relocated? 112 between france and germany. italy only wants to defend its own borders, which are also those of the european union. stop illegal immigration!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to the ruling of the italian antitrust authority, the nutri-score, or the labelling system that europe wants to impose on us, was developed on the basis of an algorithm and scientific assessments that are not recognized and shared. a clearly misleading labelling system, which refers to 100 grams of product and not to a portion of consumption that is going to encourage unhealthy behaviour. the real objective of the nutri-score is not the protection of the health of consumers, but the failure of the italian agri-food sector. the european union must take care of the health of its citizens by promoting proper food education and supporting the excellence of our land and our tradition. no to synthetic food in the lab. food security is provided by natural food and ensured by our farmers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for decades now the so-called anti-racism has become a real religion, designed to make europeans feel guilty and to make them accept what no other people anywhere on the planet accepts, namely, mass, anarchic immigration, whose flows are increasing and against which it is now forbidden to speak. we are asked to push ourselves and make room for newcomers, asked to let our history be insulted, asked to let our memory be erased, asked to let our people be replaced. and in the meantime, who benefits from the leniency of the judges, even after dozens of police arrests? who gets 14 second chances? who is always excused by the media and the left? who benefits from positive discrimination in recruitment? who gets racial quotas on tv or in movies? it's those minorities you talk about so much. while certain ethnic, sexual or religious minorities are entitled to all the attention, while their demands, even those most incompatible with the general interest, are promoted and valued, there is a category that has no right to anything, except the right to be blamed, to beat itself: it is the european, white, christian and heterosexual man.
mr president, it’s incredible the hate that comes out of certain speeches. two years ago, this parliament declared that ‘black lives matter’ but, let’s be frank, even judging by the three previous speeches, do ‘black lives matter’ in our politics, in our policies and in our implementation of them? are persons of colour, minorities and others only remembered in our thoughts and prayers? right now, authorities have the power to discriminate through laws, and we are tired of this systematic racism and discrimination embedded in policies, and ineffective remedies. big statements are very attractive, but lack of action is deadly. what about the prediction of criminality in minorities due to their immigrant background? this is a human rights violation. let us introduce concrete follow—ups to ensure effective implementation. governments must give the support that many ngos struggle to give – yet they still do it. let us ensure equal treatment, distribution of wealth, and let us be the ones to initiate a model of real inclusion and dialogue between citizens. colleagues, we do not need preachers and speakers; we need decision—makers and game—changers to address the systemic roots of institutionalised racism – also in this european parliament!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, racism does exist in europe. it exists in the slums, where the poor fight each other for a subsidy or a public housing. a battle of the last, where the participants do not play to win but fight to survive. it's the racism of the underdog world. but there is another, more subtle, form of racism. it's the racism of the restricted zones, the racism of the radical chic; the racism of the centre which discriminates against the racists of the periphery; the racism of those with the 40 000 euro electric car against those who pollute with the diesel car in 2005 that cannot change; racism against those who don't have the inclusive vocabulary of those who went to the elite schools. you talk about "inclusion" and you've extended a health cordon to colleagues in here who don't think like you. this report is full of words that are incomprehensible to those who live on the margins. they don't understand you and you don't understand them. we shall not vote for this report not because we do not share the fight against racism, but because we do not share its hypocrisy. pier paolo pasolini used to say: "racism is unconscious class hatred". and he was right.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, racism and discriminatory practices in the european union represent a major obstacle to the attainment of rights and opportunities for those who are victims of them, seriously undermining human dignity, well-being and personal security. minorities and social groups, including lgbtqi people, continue to suffer from socioeconomic inequalities affecting employment and access to essential services such as health, education, housing and justice. 14 years after the adoption of the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia, not all member states have correctly transposed the provisions to criminalise hate-based behaviour and incitement to hatred. european legislation is evolving to tackle such rampant online phenomena, but this is not enough. the european union action plan against racism should have measurable objectives and follow-up mechanisms. culture and the media should have a priority role in combating racial prejudice and stereotypes, as well as in promoting equality and social inclusion. a europe united in diversity is built without intolerance and discrimination.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i too would like to begin by thanking my colleague, mrs evin incir, for this report. the issue of racism and related discrimination is often too one-dimensional in political discourse. racial violence and discrimination are not isolated cases. they are not largely harmless, nor should they be exploited and reinterpreted. the real effects of structural and systemic discrimination are real and are used by right-wing parties as a basis for exclusion and division. we are in a time of upheaval: the aftermath of the coronavirus crisis, the effects of the inhuman war - they cast a shadow on the coming years. it is now all the more important that we speak out against all forms of exclusion. the time has come for action at european and national level. because how seriously we all take the idea of european diversity, how seriously we take it, will have to be measured by how we as a society deal with it when it is attacked - always and everywhere.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in the last few days the voice of hatred against migrants has been enriched with new words: 'selective landings' and 'residual loading'. not in reference to defective goods or spoiled meat to be sent back to the sender but to define shipwrecked people, people who were forbidden to disembark in a safe harbor. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter. words that incite hatred and discrimination, which help to consolidate structural and institutionalized racism. europe is at a crossroads. if we want to take the path of values and equality, then we must condemn, without reservation, all discriminatory behaviour, rooted even within the institutions, and follow up this resolution, and i thank mrs incir, who has outlined a path to follow, a path made up of culture and politics, education and law, because races do not exist. there is only the human race.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his good work. the digital transformation of society and the economy has broadened and diversified the range of threats, creating new challenges that require rapid and innovative responses. the number of cyber-attacks continues to increase, with increasingly sophisticated incursions from both outside and inside the union. the group worked on strengthening guarantees and incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises, which was later included in the agreement. the most appropriate direction is towards reducing administrative and bureaucratic burdens and improving the reporting of cybersecurity incidents, especially by ensuring adequate support for all micro and small enterprises falling within the scope of the directive. the problem of the skills gap remains, and something must be done about it, and quickly, of course.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is an obligation for this house to remember all patients with diabetes. a disease with an increasing incidence worldwide, particularly for type 2 diabetes, for which action is required by preventing risk factors such as overweight, obesity, sedentary lifestyle, socioeconomic inequalities and poor diet. a silent epidemic that, in 2021 alone, caused over a million deaths in europe, ranking as the fourth leading cause of death in the european union. well then, programmes like eu4health, but not enough. as a doctor, i insist that the first step is always prevention. actively identify those at risk, promoting healthy lifestyles, healthy nutrition and physical activity, with information and screening plans to intervene as soon as possible. half of people with diabetes and prediabetes don't even know they have it, and unfortunately, by the time the disease becomes apparent, the symptoms are macroscopic, the damage is already done, and you risk a complicated and disabling end of life, with enormous personal, family, social and health costs. in the fight against diabetes, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament must say 'yes'.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are more than 33 million people in europe who suffer from diabetes and these numbers are set to increase. diabetes is also a complex disease, because in most cases it is associated with associated conditions: cardiovascular disease, kidney complications, all the way to permanent disability. the basis for treating this highly disabling and widespread disease, the incidence of which is increasing dramatically, is diet, physical activity, but above all, medication. the european union must encourage a fertile field for research, which must not stop, in order to make efficient medicines available to patients at affordable prices and to make our health systems more resilient, including through screening and prevention programmes. these must be the main objectives of the european effort to improve the care and quality of life of the many people with diabetes and their families.
the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. firstly, the venue chosen was chosen in a process full of irregularities that is being investigated by the french judiciary. secondly, a venue with infrastructure whose construction has cost, according to some estimates, up to 6 500 deaths, a figure that had not been seen in any sporting event in the whole second half of the 20th century. third, a very high climate cost, needless to say: 3.6 million tons of co2 and football players playing football in stadiums that have to be continuously air-conditioned. and fourthly, today we just saw fifa ban european national team players from holding demonstrations in solidarity with the lgbtq community or other human rights causes. we demand that the european institutions denounce these outrages; that they demand that fifa allow european footballers to demonstrate freely at football matches; and, thirdly, that they also demand a compensation and reparation fund for the families of those killed in the construction of the world cup facilities.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on human rights in qatar is 12 years late. to face him today when the world cup has already started sounds hypocritical, and it is not the first time that this has happened in this house. what will not be discussed, unfortunately, is the reason that drives doha to invest its vast economic resources to host the most popular sporting event on the entire planet. money is the means, not the end. in these 12 years, the teams in the main european capitals, lisbon, london, paris, munich, manchester, barcelona, madrid, rome, milan, have all been controlled or sponsored by the united arab emirates and qatar. the truth is that there is no soft power more effective than football to spread islamism around the world. it's too late to cry about human rights violations now. we europeans have sold our way of life and some have bought it, but we have all become poorer.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have presented a very optimistic picture, you have tried to defend the indefensible, because in the 12 years of preparation for the world cup in qatar the european and international institutions have remained silent in the face of the 6 500 dead workers, these are the figures from the guardian, and the rights of women, homosexuals, ethnic and religious minorities systematically trampled underfoot. a silence that sounds like consent, but also like connivance. 220 billion has been allocated, an exorbitant amount, equal to one third of our recovery fund, the highest budget ever allocated to a world, perhaps with the intention of legitimizing any action to clean up the image of qatar, the world champion of denied rights. so i wonder what is the point of this discussion today about human rights in qatar after the world cup has already started. i hope this discussion does not serve to clear anyone's conscience in the face of the most scandalous case of sportswashing, defended also by the president of fifa who a few days ago said: "let's take the rights issue into account, but let's think about the world cup now". commissioner schinas even praised the world cups on social media yesterday and wrote: 'the european model of sport, an inspiration for all'. i would therefore ask the commission, in view of this situation, that thousands of people not die in vain: what relations does the european union intend to establish with qatar in order to bring this country into compliance with human rights and fundamental freedoms?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am disappointed but not surprised by a debate which is sometimes worthy of the banality of an ordinary infantino. there are big absentees in this discussion, and it is the men and especially the women of the christian religion who in qatar are forced to hide their faith, in a country where conversion from islam to christianity is not even recognized by the government. but today we are discussing, rightly, many, too many cases of white deaths in construction sites around the world, we are discussing violations of the rights of the lgbt community, but we saw that a piece is missing. everyone, i say, everyone has the right to respect, but those who are following this plenary sitting from home tonight have a different idea, they have an idea of a europe which thinks of certain rights and cowardly turns its back on the other side and does not think of other rights. fellas, just to maintain a football vocabulary: you have missed yet another opportunity to show that there is no class b discrimination in this house.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has decided that from 2035 onwards car manufacturers will no longer be able to sell petrol and diesel cars. a misguided decision, dictated by an ecophobia that failed to consider the serious socioeconomic consequences of its own delusion. the ban on internal combustion engines could lead to the loss of over 70 000 jobs in italy between 2025 and 2040. commissioner breton said that europe would lose some 600 000 jobs, with a huge increase in the consumption of raw materials and electricity, saying that the 2035 stop was not a taboo. the commission should take this into account when it revises the decision it has taken. the energy transition requires a gradual approach and a careful analysis of the socioeconomic consequences. the european union does not take the madness of environmental groups out on european businesses and citizens.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, protecting the critical infrastructure that is essential to the functioning of our society and our economy must be a priority for the european union. in recent years we have seen a significant increase in cyber attacks, which have put many states in serious difficulty, with serious disruption to essential services for citizens. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's cybersecurity legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's cybersecurity legislation. the interconnection between networks, operators and infrastructure is increasingly global and it is right to widen the sectors involved. it is good that the agri-food sector has been included among those considered to be of the most critical importance, that the bureaucratic burden on private operators has been reduced and that measures have been taken to support small and mediumsized enterprises. europe should focus on the defence of its citizens and on the security of the countries of the union with greater commitment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in italy we did not have to wait ten years before we were told how many women should occupy decision-making positions. in italy, we have effective legislation since 2011 that has allowed us to achieve one of the alternative targets imposed by the directive early. the introduction of a quota system at european level and therefore of a system of quotas at the top is an approach which we cannot support politically. to paraphrase a phrase by oriana fallaci, the mediocre of political correctness always deny merit and always replace quality with quantity. and what women want is recognition of their merit, not a reserved place, and it cannot and should not make any difference whether you wear a tie or a pair of heels, because in the future there will be no female or male leaders, there will only be leaders. i would like to express my thoughts to roberto maroni.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, imposing equality on the boards of large companies is a frontal operation, which is certainly pleasing to progressives, but which unfortunately does not solve the problem of gender disparity at work at its root. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. this is demonstrated by the case of the lombardy outpost and here my thoughts go to governor roberto maroni, who helped make it great where 48% of managers in all of italy work. then we need more pragmatism and less ideology. we do not need preferential lanes, but fair competition on equal terms, in order to achieve real equality, not just ease, which can guarantee not only women's rights but also the economic and cultural progress of our countries. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' speech)
the answer is "blue card". i believe that betting only on the pink quotas is a diversion from tackling the problem. we are facing the digital transition and there will be new professions of the future, especially in stem subjects, but we must be aware that only a very small percentage of women approach technical-scientific subjects, because they tell us that these subjects are probably the property of men. so we are working on this, giving guidance especially in schools among the younger ones, to bring women up and approach these subjects, where they also achieve even better results than men, to actually give them quality jobs, which allow them to balance work and family. this is true equality of opportunity, competition must be there, equal arms, but competition must be there. (the speaker agrees to reply to two 'blue card' speeches)
the answer is "blue card". in this connection, i have just mentioned the good practices of my region, which is the lombardy region, where 48% of women managers in italy reside, without the need to impose quotas. we have achieved better percentages, but i am not satisfied. the problem is that i do not think that quotas are an appropriate instrument. we need welfare, that is the only solution and that is the only keyword we have to pursue. to ensure balance and equal opportunities we must allow women not to have to choose between career and work. the creation of quotas in the boards of directors means only that women will be given preference in elite positions, but beyond the women who work in the boards and the women managers, there are millions of women who do not have the opportunity to access these positions, but who still have the right to have a career and to be able to balance their family life. so we can't do elite politics, we have to think about all women, leave no one behind.
in the name of the id group. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind this house that the vast majority of european citizens believe that 'grants', as provided for in the recovery fund, are 'gifted' resources, that is to say, resources which have been made available out of thin air by the european union, whereas in reality they are obtained through the so-called own resources. it would therefore be appropriate to inform the european citizens better that, for own resources, and for the recovery of new ones, nothing is meant except taxes which directly or indirectly always end up in the pockets of the citizens. i am also very much concerned that all the planned grants will be offset by the planned revenue from the new own resources and that other extraordinary revenue, which will also be borne by the citizens, will have to be used in the course of the work. in short, the system is very much like the famous game of three cards at the village fairs, where it is already known who always fails. in the end, as you have now seen, it only takes a minute to make the citizens understand this misunderstanding correctly.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you again for this timely and interesting debate and for your constant support to diversify the revenues of our union budget. new types of revenue will avoid undue cuts to union programmes or increases in member states’ contributions. the commission will present the second set of new own resources still in 2023. this is one year ahead of what is foreseen in the institutional agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission. it underscores our commitment to sustainable eu public finance. the second set of new own resources would complement the first. it aims at generating sufficient revenue for the repayment of ngeu borrowing. as you know, the institutional agreement names two possible contributions for this second basket of resources, one linked to the corporate sector and one linked to the financial sector. but there are also other possibilities like a digital levy, for instance. in the field of corporate taxation, the commission intends to come forward with a proposal for a single set of tax rules for doing business in europe. this could form the basis of an own resource linked to the corporate sector. ngeu repayment is not a choice, but an obligation which we have towards investors and to taxpayers. it’s a test of unity and credibility of the union to repay our debts. and this unity will be closely watched by the outside world. our joint effort, therefore, should be to negotiate and agree a balanced package of new own resources. and again, it’s something which is very much linked to the credibility of us, to the capital markets, which are now very important for us more than ever in order to raise the necessary amounts to support our citizens.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, with our proposals, with our opinion, which i am sure will be adopted, we have achieved some 15 billion euros in revenue without penalising citizens, contributing to the objective of combating climate change, helping to ensure fiscal justice and accelerating the objectives of the digital transition. new revenues that serve, it is true, to pay off the debt, but we cannot stop there. it's not just to pay off the debt of nextgenerationeu: it is essential that revenue should also be obtained for the common projects, the strategic objectives of the european union, its strategic autonomy. if we do not invest in security, in the energy union, in strengthening our military capacity, in health, in civil protection, in what are the chip acts, the semiconductors, in secure connectivity, if we do not have these investments, we will pay a huge price. investments which should be in joint projects, because they bring effectiveness, efficiency. with fewer resources we can do much more, and this is a goal we must have: to make the commitments, to pay the debt, not to burden the next generations. on the other hand, we must have a budget which invests in a way that gives the european union autonomy, so that we can give the citizens of the european union a future. and in that sense, if we do not invest in these common projects, as the lack of the energy union shows, we will have and we will pay a very high price. the european parliament, myself and my colleague, valérie hayer, are already working on proposals for a new package and on making suggestions to the commission. the commission should come up with the second phase and the second package, also in terms of what the road map for own resources should be. the council must now decide unanimously. it is up to the council to move the european union forward. and i hope that the council, instead of rulers, for once, also has leaders. the european union needs them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 23 november 2022.
i have an announcement to make. the non-attached members have forwarded to the president decisions on the amendment of appointments to committees. these decisions will be recorded in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the date of this announcement. (the sitting was suspended at 2.43 p.m.)
the minutes of yesterday's sitting have been distributed. is there any comment? i declare yesterday's minutes of the sitting approved.
executive vice-president of the commission. – thank you very much for this question. so indeed, from the commission’s side we put forward orientations for a possible revision of our fiscal and macro—economic governance framework. the idea is now, we hope, that based on those orientations, a consensus will be emerging among member states, with the european parliament, with different stakeholders, and if this is indeed the case, we will be following this up with legislative proposals. so if everything goes according to plan, that would happen in spring next year. orientations, as we put them forward, are obviously already taking into account feedback we were receiving from member states, from the european parliament, from others during quite a long period of discussions. as you know, we launched this process already in february 2020 as there was some suspension during the covid-19 pandemic, but nevertheless we had quite extensive discussions. correspondingly, what we are putting forward is already, in a sense, factoring in those discussions and narrowing them down because we need to get more concrete on where we actually want to go with this review of fiscal rules. you mentioned the question of additional common fiscal capacity. well, we were clear in those orientations that here we are focusing on fiscal rules. so we are not opening another very – as we know – broad and also very controversial discussion on this common fiscal capacity. so here, indeed, it’s about how the future of governance framework could look like.
executive vice-president of the commission. – so as i was already mentioning, we clearly have this discussion also on a broader kind of future of the eu budget, additional elements, sovereignty fund, euro area fiscal capacity. we have all those discussions. so what i’m basically emphasising is that we are not making those discussions part of the discussions of our fiscal and macroeconomic governance framework because that’s already, i would say, a complicated and complex enough exercise. you mentioned, for example, specifically nextgenerationeu. we remember that a number of member states agreed on the nextgenerationeu explicitly on the condition that this is a one-off instrument. but we all know also that the debate on common, for example, euro area fiscal capacity predates nextgenerationeu, and we do not expect that this debate will disappear, but we are just emphasising that it is not part of this particular exercise.
the commission communication indeed proposes to improve the sanctions regime, which i think makes sense. it improves the corrective arm of the fiscal framework, so basically the sticks. but i’m wondering, what are the carrots you’re proposing or having in mind to ensure greater compliance with the rules? because conditional access to already—accessible funds like the structural funds doesn’t seem very compelling to me as carrots.
member of the commission. – i’m not sure that this sticks and carrots mechanism could work, but anyway i take your point. in my view, indeed, the effort we made with these proposals is an effort to strike a balance. so in this case, we can also say a balance also between sticks and carrots. the balance is on a more simplified mechanism where the rules are more transparent. we have a simpler single indicator of the evolution, which is based on the net primary expenditure. stronger ownership from member states, because member states are the ones proposing their plans of reduction of debt and investments. the possibility to use the investments in the common priorities of the union to have an even more gradual path of reduction of the debt and at the same time having more gradual, more realistic, rules, more capable to incentivise investments to have them also more enforced. this enforcement is not based on enlarging the sanctions but paradoxically, it is based on making the sanctions lighter because lighter sanctions are possibly also sanctions that we can really enforce.
you mentioned the individual ownership of the member states that you tried to focus more on in the proposal. i’m wondering, in this regard, do you think that this should also involve a greater role for national independent fiscal institutions?
member of the commission. – this is always a point we refer to in all our papers and documents. and rightly so, in my view. in an ideal world, we should work to strengthen these independent bodies. in the real world, we have to do this taking into account the fact that their reality is rather unequal, country by country, and so that it is not easy to say, overall, that these bodies should have this specific role. there is, i think, a common understanding on the fact that the commission is proposing to give to these bodies a stronger role, but we are not so much framing this from the legal point of view, taking into account exactly the fact that the reality is different country by country or from this independent body. so strengthen them, but not forgetting that they are quite different in their capacity and their level in their autonomy because they are independent – but yes, independence is a fight in some countries.
i want to go back on the investment issue and in particular on the national investments. i think this proposal is very positive, very good in a way that tries to find a better balance between the stability and the growth, and investments – national investments – are crucial to that end. the only thing that i wonder, in the legislative proposal that i’m confident will be presented very soon, i think that we will need a little bit more clarification on some aspects of these national investments: how they will be treated, which kind of investments, which conditions. i mean, i would like the commission to elaborate a little bit more and to share with us some clarification on this matter.
executive vice-president of the commission. – indeed, so it’s very clear that in coming years, we will need to deal with both issues. we will need a lot of investments for our green and digital transitions, for the resilience of our economies and, at the same time, we will also need to put current high levels of debt on a clear downwards trajectory. so it’s about finding the right balance. so one element in our intentions is about giving more space or allowing member states to have more gradual debt-adjustment trajectories if they are performing, growth enhancing and fiscal sustainability, supporting reforms and investments. so those are the two elements, that’s the investments, which we want be supportive of growth and fiscal sustainability, and also responding to common european priorities and obviously also, of course, country-specific challenges. so we outline these elements as ones which we will take into account when deciding whether to allow member states to have a more gradual debt-adjustment trajectory.
let me be a little bit more specific. in the communication of 2015, the commission provides a clear and specific region for certain investments, you know, that takes into account not only compliance with macroeconomic criteria, but also the type of investment. that’s what i wanted to look into, with particular reference, but of course not limited to co-financed investments that are part of european projects. i think this is an important part. i would like to have clarification. are you considering proposing something similar in the new governance as well? because i think in the upcoming years, that would be very, very important and very valuable.
mr. high representative, thank you for your clarifying words. looking ahead, we can say that the food crisis could kill more people than the pandemic. the numbers of food insecurity and hunger in the world are shocking. the european union is a major player in the world economy. what ukraine was putting into the global market before the war was millions of tons a month, so we're just seeing the first signs of the disaster that's coming. so i ask you: in the effort to put together emergency food aid, can you tell us what changes the union is going to make to the aid system to improve it, since it was not sustainable even before the war?
mr. high representative, thank you for your reply. in order to quickly resolve the obstacles to the black sea grain initiative, which has its own peculiarities, for example, it does not contain a dispute settlement provision, and which grants the secretary-general and turkey a high degree of independence as mediators, and this seems to me to be the most important practical point of the agreement, would the european union like to introduce provisions or rules to that effect?
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr borrell, the facts are now telling us that china is not looking for peace and quiet, and i ask myself: where is the example of balance and reciprocity in trade that the european commission is trying to establish with china both bilaterally and in the wto? all this is not materializing and that is why our debate indicates the clear political will to safeguard a free, multipolar, rules-based international order. you mentioned the crucial issue of semiconductors. that is why we must find a way to allow taiwan to continue to exist in its current status quo, expanding trade and political relations and categorically rejecting the false narrative of reunification proposed by china. we must also oppose the hegemony that the chinese communist party is trying to extend in the east and south china seas by challenging freedom of navigation, and thus challenging the western world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is increasingly being subjugated by china. from 2035, in fact, there will be an electric car mandate, we will depend on china. the market for electric cars, from batteries to raw materials to rare earths, is effectively a monopoly of the asian giant. we are moving from dependence on russian gas to dependence on chinese gas, practically, to further dependence on the asian giant. all this hiding behind green, but china continues to pollute and its co2 emissions are one third of the world's. but you also close your eyes to the human rights violations imposed by the communist dictatorship of the chinese government. persecution of political opponents, ethnic and religious minorities. i mean, we're tired of your subservience to china.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, commissioner várhelyi, for being with us this evening, we have asked, with several colleagues, the high representative and ambassador olof skoog to take action at the united nations to remove iran from the commission on the status of women, an obligatory response by the european union to the growing repression of protests in iran. thank you for your help, commissioner. today too this parliament is helping to make the voice of protest of the iranian people heard, who feel deprived of the possibility of living a life of security and peace with themselves and with the world. the iranian people ask only one thing of the supreme leader, the ayatollahs, president raisi and the armed forces. he asks one simple thing: it is to abandon a pretentious state of mind of permanent revolution, based only on repression, corruption, enmity towards the muslim brotherhood in the gulf, hatred towards israel and a deep contempt for the liberal democracies of the west. the iran proposed by the ayatollah is only imbued with murderous cynicism and is a blasphemy of islam itself. let us continue to help the iranian people and keep the light of hope burning for them and for us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, iranian women are protesting, risking their lives, and doing so with, let us say, spectacular gestures. yes, because in iran, removing the veil or kissing your fiance in the street is considered subversive and therefore forbidden. what is the european union doing? nothing but empty closeness, no real condemnation of the islamic regime in iran, no real criticism of the abolition of the compulsory islamic veil, no real support for the struggle of women who just want to be free. your position is shy, but why is it shy? because for years you have supported and promoted, even with public money, the idea of the islamic veil as a symbol of freedom. you've gone off the rails and promoted the wrong model. the islamic veil is a tool of oppression, as witnessed by iranian women who are tired of the violence and the orders of the religious police. the european union must defend the values of freedom and women's rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, enlargement policy is the most important test of the credibility of the european union and of our values. while this process has immense importance and added value for countries in the process of joining the european union, at the same time, at the level of the union, some member states are unfortunately behaving as if it were some sort of irrelevant and secondary process for european interests that would be best forgotten. our reflections on whether to open accession negotiations with countries have opened the way to the strengthening of the influence of other global and regional actors, some of whom have openly anti-european views. the report successfully identifies the key issues of the accession process, the transformative role, transparency and consistency. but let's look at the western balkans, what was happening in north macedonia and albania, for example, let's look at what's happening with kosovo. the serbian government must first and foremost align itself with the european union's foreign policy positions and i think we need to make that clear once again. we urgently need to make the member states and those who want to join aware that the european union is still an attractive community. ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the fragility of peace and geopolitical turmoil, and i therefore welcome the efforts being made, and i am hopeful that the aid in bosnia and herzegovina, which must continue on its european path, of course, after the elections, will be given. the enlargement process must be given a new impetus to restore its integrity!
i would like to thank mr picule for his efforts in this important area and i am in favour of the enlargement of the european union. however, i do not agree with the proposed reform which would allow decisions on enlargement to be taken by qualified majority rather than by consensus, because in this way some of croatia's neighbours, such as serbia, could join the european union without croatia agreeing to it, and in this way many of the issues that croatia has with its neighbours would remain open and would burden both croatia and the european union in the long term. the second thing is, it's clear that as a representative of croatia, the last country to join the union, i think that the enlargement of the european union is a success for the european union, but i think it's not good to overly equate the success of the european union with enlargement because if that's the most successful european policy, what will happen when the european union expands to the end? when we reach the borders of europe, then there will be a collapse. so i think that the success of the european union should be sought within the european union itself, by strengthening subsidiarity, genuine democracy, pluralism and a real approach to politics.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, dear mr picula, i just want to remind all of us that this commission was the commission who put back enlargement on the table. the beginning of the mandate of this commission, we have adopted a revised enlargement methodology which makes the enlargement process more credible, more transparent and more dynamic, and ensures a better political steer over it. we have put a much stronger focus on the fundamental reforms – as this has become the core issue of the whole enlargement process – as the key goal of the transformation power of the enlargement. we have made it possible to move faster for candidate countries if they deliver faster, for example by the introduction of the cluster system. we have made it possible to integrate our candidate partners into eu policies even before accession. the last months have demonstrated that the eu enlargement policy is living a new momentum. so i don’t think we need new procedures, but we need political will, both from the eu and from the candidate countries. enlargement is a geopolitical priority for us and for our allies, therefore. the idea of joining the eu is interlinked with a need for reform, freedom, security and stability. we have seen with the new applicants it is our responsibility to live up to these expectations to further strengthen the enlargement policy based on strict but fair conditionality, and the principle of own merits will have to continue.
rapporteur. – madam president, mr commissioner, thank you all once again all of you for your remarks and contributions. i want to thank first of all the shadow rapporteurs for our excellent cooperation throughout the process. of course, thank you all colleagues who took part in the debate with ideas, contributions, hopes and in some cases scepticism. as my introductory remarks were mostly focused on what the eu should do to accelerate the enlargement process, now i wish to focus more on the countries aspiring to become members. the success of the enlargement process also depends on them, as you said mr commissioner, it’s true. it is a twofold process and a partnership. excluding ukraine, which is fighting for its freedom, we see persistent political crises these days, tensions between the countries, and foreign interference. however, we need good news and positive examples of development and cooperation. we need to see that you follow our principles and values in practice. moreover, we need to see political consensus in your countries on the eu accession that would be above internal political differences. a european future is what your citizens support and deserve. europe is where you belong.
thank you for your report, mr picula. that concludes the debate. the vote will be held tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the neglected enlargement policy needs a new impetus, as it is an effective geopolitical weapon against russia, which is increasingly a threat to european peace and security. to restore its credibility, the eu must reform its decision-making processes and abandon the requirement of unanimity for the admission of new members. the eu also needs to fulfil its commitments to the western balkans and the eastern partnership countries and not to offer candidate countries alternatives to full eu membership. the eu must pay more attention to ensuring that the people of the candidate countries have a better understanding of the union's support and the results achieved. more should also be done to prevent third parties from interfering in the political, democratic and electoral processes of the candidate countries. the eu should also and rapidly punish countries where the reforms needed for accession have stalled or been reversed, and reward those candidate countries that have made sustained progress, for example by granting them accelerated access to the single market.
the next item is the debate on the report by giuliano pisapia, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a european parliament recommendation to the council, the commission and the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in libya (2021/2064(ini)) (a9-0252/2022).
the reporter. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the recommendation on libya is the result of months of intensive work. i would like to thank our institutional and civil society partners for the fruitful exchange of views, and especially the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and contribution. the situation in libya is becoming more and more dramatic and the postponement of the elections has shattered the hopes of the libyan people for peace and democracy. libya has become a dustbin where new actors join old ones, without making any progress on the issues of democracy, justice and national reconciliation that libyans have been yearning for for years, if not decades. in recent decades, many actors have blocked libya's democratic and development process. the european union can and must become a protagonist of peace in libya too, after a period of, let us say it boldly and truthfully, often deafening silence. this is another reason why the european union must appoint as soon as possible a special representative for libya to support the mediation work initiated by the new un special representative. they need our technical assistance for a new roadmap that will finally lead to credible, inclusive and democratic elections. the recommendation proposes that a european union electoral mission be sent to assist the electoral process and that all necessary technical support be provided. we must use the force of reason, but not just the force of reason, to help the libyan authorities and put an end to the violent repression of civil society organisations and the shameful situation in the detention camps. the use of eu funds to support, among others, the strengthening of the rule of law, gender equality, social inclusion, local communities is therefore welcome. local and foreign militias are enriching themselves on the backs of migrants and asylum seekers. the violation of human rights is systemic and impunity reigns supreme. this too requires a central authority that takes responsibility for guaranteeing the rights and duties of all. a stable and prosperous libya could make a significant contribution to reducing regional unemployment and preventing many people from falling victim to human traffickers. there are points in the recommendation, very important points that we must not forget: the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in a number of important debates on the human rights situation in the middle east, including the rights of women and children, the tragedy of displaced persons, religious and ethnic minorities, the fight against gender-based violence, the grave problem of landmines, the proliferation of weapons, the abolition of the death penalty. i think we did a good job. i hope, therefore, that the recommendations we shall be voting on tomorrow will not just remain on paper, but will be implemented and not ignored, as has unfortunately happened in the past. we need all of the european institutions, and i repeat, all of them, to commit themselves to making their contribution so that libya is more important in our agendas, in our thoughts, in our commitment. we owe it to the libyan people and their desire for peace.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very important report today, because the libyan question is a geopolitical, energy and migration time bomb. unfortunately, the bomb that explodes in our hands today was set off by the same european powers that brought down and overthrew the gaddafi dictatorship, but without having a plan for how to rebuild libya afterwards. after many years, no international actor has yet come up with a solution to the libyan problem, and the international community is content to have crystallized a civil war on the libyan people. libya is right on the southern border of europe and nato. while europe is rightly committed to defending the north-east front, we are neglecting the mediterranean front. foreign powers like russia and turkey are taking control of libya and unfortunately here too europe is the last to understand and solve issues that are geopolitically strategic for our continent. we have seen in other contexts how immigration is used as a weapon of blackmail. do we want to allow the main port of departure for illegal immigration to europe to be controlled by others? we, more than anyone, need to protect the southern tip of our continent. to talk about libya in this house means to talk about issues such as political stability, the role of hydrocarbons and the immediate halt to migration flows. italy cannot take on the task of stopping illegal immigration to europe on its own, as ministers piantedosi and salvini are already doing, there is a need for identification centres in libya run by international organisations and for funding for frontex to fight human traffickers. we are claiming a leading role in the mediterranean. stopping traffickers on the beaches does not endanger anyone, but the business of the traffickers themselves and their protectors at all levels. perhaps it is time for the entire international community, including europe first and foremost, to go to libya for good and to clean up the mess it has made.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the world is better without dictators. yet, 11 years after the arab spring and fall of muammar gaddafi, we have to step up our efforts in order to help libyans bring stability and peace to the country. we have to support, with all our might, the efforts of the un special representative, who is already in tbilisi, and also support the acceleration process of coming to presidential and parliamentary elections, as well as a referendum that is to adopt the constitution and thus abandoning the constitutional covenant still in and in power. we also have to use necessary financial resources supporting operation irini and the eu border control mission.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we europeans are paying for our very serious mistakes and our deep divisions in libya. others have since filled a vacant space: turkey, russia, egypt, the gulf states. the risk we run as european institutions, commission, member states, parliament, is our fundamental irrelevance. the european union needs credibility, unity and determination to regain its role, as the pisapia report, which we are discussing and comparing, shows. we must work politically for a new berlin, to ensure a free and united future for libya, a united future that holds libya together, to guarantee a democratic process to elect a new parliament and a new executive, to free the territory from the presence of too many foreign arms and private armies, to demand the closure of unworthy detention centres and the release of immigrants, deprived of any right to citizenship, to ensure, along with all this, an economic, social and infrastructural programme for the reconstruction of libya. that is the task we must now carry out.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the previous eu policy on search and rescue attracted criticism for incentivising human trafficking. unfortunately, the current eu policy on search and rescue promotes torture in captivity. one injustice has replaced another, and the stories that are emerging from reception centres in libya are truly chilling – so much so that the united nations fact—finding mission has concluded that these stories are so widespread and so compelling as to be suggestive of crimes against humanity. and this is a phrase, of course, that is not used lightly. as regards search and rescue, sometimes, in my view, the intrinsic rightness of something is impossible to ignore. it’s impossible to consider the secondary consequences. and i would have thought, uncontroversially, that rescuing somebody from the sea is intrinsically the right thing to do. so i would urge the european union to restore search and rescue. i would urge the european union to legislate for the migration and asylum pact, and i would urge the european union to cooperate with ngos.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must thank mr pisapia and the other members who have worked on this document, because it took a great deal of work and courage to negotiate effective recommendations, despite the attempts by the right to insert misleading messages, to criminalise solidarity and therefore the work of ngos at sea by promoting them as a factor of attraction. the vote tomorrow must make it clear where we stand. the so-called libyan coastguards are responsible for intercepting boats carrying migrants and refugees and for illegally detaining them. investigate the atrocities and the mechanisms of monitoring and accountability and then we must stop funding and cooperating with those in libya who are accused of serious violations and involvement in human trafficking.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, libya must be stabilised, our security is at stake, but if we are to achieve political stabilisation, europe must play a leading role in correcting the tragic mistake of 2011. we can no longer afford to have a country on the southern shore of the mediterranean that is constantly divided, with weak governments, influenced by turkey, russia and other regional actors, leaving the field to armed militias, often infiltrated by jihadists, who manage the illegal trafficking of migrants to europe. of course, the conditions in libyan detention centres are terrible and we must bring international organisations there, but this cannot make us accept that it is human traffickers, often with the benevolent complicity of ngos, who decide who can and cannot enter europe. in north africa we must bring investment in return for a real commitment to combating illegal immigration, with coastal patrols, the destruction of the boats of the divers and everything that will be necessary to put an end to this shameful traffic, which does nothing but enrich the criminal organizations that are holding libya and all of us in check.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commission, i am well aware of the situation in libya, not because i have heard it, but because i have seen firsthand the horrors of those who have arrived in lampedusa. i've collected desperate stories from these people, seen the signs of unprecedented violence. bodies mutilated, skinned alive, even raped, i saw them with my own eyes, i touched them, i healed them, women, men, children and girls annihilated, many of them lifeless. in libya, people's lives, especially black people's lives, are worth less than zero. in this resolution we call on the council and the commission to make concrete commitments to safeguard human rights and to ensure that search and rescue operations are carried out along the central mediterranean route. we are calling for an end to arbitrary detention and for the protection of the rights of migrants, we are talking about people. the geneva convention must be signed and ratified immediately. the union is there if there are rights. memoranda such as the one renewed by italy have no reason to exist and consequently cannot be accepted. no impunity for those who violate human rights.
madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and my colleagues. the way out of the conflict impasse in libya is one: free and fair elections. but unfortunately the outgoing interim government in tripoli refuses to cooperate and that is why we will continue to see crimes, impunity and foreign interference, particularly from russia and turkey. in fact, as the competent bodies of the european union involved in the irini operation to implement the arms embargo on libya, as decided by the un, have pointed out, turkey has been flouting the arms embargo to this day. the report is very specific in relation to the turco-ottoman memorandum on the so-called delimitation of the marine areas in the mediterranean sea: the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the libyan regime has been unable to achieve its objectives, and that the libyan regime has not been able to achieve its objectives.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the recommendations included in your report and our exchanges today are important to inspire further joint efforts by the eu and our main international partners to help the libyans find a durable solution to the crisis. we will take note of your recommendations as a very good basis to coordinate the international support to the efforts of un special representative bathily. this is essential for the libyan people and overall important for northern africa, the sahel region and for europe.
the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank you for this exchange of views, which is interesting and important in any case. it seems clear to me, and it seems to me that it has emerged from the debate, that libya should not be dealt with only to stop the flow of migrants at all costs, even ignoring the respect for human rights and international law. managing flows does not mean that the eu and its member states should not uphold their international obligations, including the reception of refugees and the assessment of asylum applications. but we must not forget who is responsible for this situation. that has already been said and i agree with it. this recommendation goes beyond that, fortunately. it is trying to make a broad argument and to put forward concrete proposals to ensure stability in a country which has been living in a dramatic situation for too long. i am convinced that our objective cannot be achieved unless we first support the un mediation for the resumption of the process of national reconciliation and then democratic elections. there are divisions, there are different opinions, but i ask my colleagues to support the recommendation in the vote tomorrow and i ask the council and the commission to do more, although they are doing a lot, on the issues we have discussed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, in the general emptiness of the words spoken on this subject, there are some unexpected, rather than meaningful, words from the leader of the epp group, mr weber, who i quote: "if you can't tell the difference between illegal immigrants, asylum seekers and refugees, then you can't help those who really need it". and then again: "i think that borders need to be protected and a state should be able to decide who is welcome and who is not welcome in the european union". the german weber of the european people's party said it, i could have said it. but to really help those in need and defend the borders there is only one solution, which the epp does not support: the european union will also support the development of a european identity card. this would make it possible to respect international and community law, to eliminate the attraction factors for illegal migration and to open the door to a truly shared definition of the problem. the european failures so far and the joint request by malta, cyprus, greece and italy are proof of this. scary numbers of arrivals, when they do arrive, in the absence of tragedy. for once, be determined and give meaning to the political words of the epp group leader, if not to ours. we go deep and make sure that people are returned, we define normatively the modus operandi of ngos, in too many cases, according to frontex, colluding with traffickers. transparency and flag state accountability must be the watchwords. to find a european solution to immigration, as you ask, you should just listen to us, because we who are living the problem ourselves have very clear ideas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on immigration, what the left has demanded has been done so far. what was the result? human trafficking, thousands of deaths at sea, thousands of illegal immigrants on our soil, black labour with starvation wages and no guaranteed rights, labour at the disposal of organised crime, loss of security in our cities, a sordid and politicized business of hospitality fuelled by european money. faced with this failure, the european centre-right, finally united, proposes another model. we want to combat illegal departures, to set up reception centres in countries of origin and transit where applications for entry into europe can be examined and where it can be established who is entitled to international protection because they are fleeing war and persecution and who is not. this would also make it possible to establish legal and substantive flows of economic migrants, which would be useful for the development of our cities. we must ensure that legal migrants have a safe journey and can integrate with our people. we can only commit ourselves to the development of the countries from which migration originates. our proposal is full of good sense and genuine solidarity, but i know that it will be met by the usual furiously ideological words from the left of this parliament. what some here call fortress europe, we simply call europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the word that should ring out in this house today when we talk about immigration is one word: shame on you. shame, shame, shame, shame. i'm not going to do this. it is shameful that italy, the country of first port, is still facing alone a phenomenon of epochal importance for the whole of europe. the sicilian channel is the border between africa and europe, not an italian border. yet italy alone is committing ships, men, money, means. police unions, seap at the forefront, have been complaining for years that many of our best officers are being forced to leave our cities empty-handed, because italy alone has to handle tens of thousands of arrivals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. president von der leyen, we have trusted you because you have promised to cancel the dublin agreements. after three and a half years, nothing has been done. we must fight human traffickers, save lives, but we must do it like europe, not dump everything on italy. to speak of a united europe will be a shameful hypocrisy until it is united in confronting mass immigration. and until then, the word to say is just one: shame on you.
mr president, commissioner, in my country, italy, the campaign of criminalisation against ngos involved in rescue and salvage at sea is continuing, accused of acting as attraction factors, accused of playing into the hands of divers, accused even when they seek shelter in a safe harbour. this exploitation of the obligation to rescue at sea and, i stress, of the legal and moral obligation to provide assistance at sea is shameful and must end. we have seen that the stalemate of voluntary solidarity, which does not work, must be overcome. migration policy needs shared strategies and common responses, as we have done with ukraine. we cannot be satisfied with an action plan which is essentially about preventing migration at all costs. we need to open up regular channels of legal immigration, fighting the rhetoric of invasion. we need a reform of the asylum system that meets the needs of first-time arrivals. we need european responses that do not make us co-responsible for the continuing tragedies, not only in the mediterranean but also on all other migratory routes. we've heard someone say that africa is a continent with over a billion people, but we've mistaken it for a supermarket where you get everything for free, and then we wonder why these people leave. we must be aware of what we are doing and our responsibilities for what is done in africa.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come when europe could proclaim its unity and solidarity without having to prove it in action. today, the energy crisis, which is a real test for the european union, calls for concrete and shared initiatives, but these take time to arrive, leaving room for divisions and selfishness, which are making us lose face internationally and undermining the cornerstones of the single market. brussels cannot allow germany to distort domestic and global competition with a 200 billion dollar shield against high-cost bills. the whole of european manufacturing must be saved because it is the only way out of this crisis, by paying back with interest the economic support of the european institutions. europe cannot fight small wars of convenience at a crossroads of history. we have competitors who are betting on our divisions and our weaknesses and for this reason we must prove ourselves stronger and bigger to give a signal to the world that europe is ready to meet the challenges of our time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in september the average price of american gas sold in europe was 57.8 dollars, in the united states it was just 8 dollars. european companies pay up to seven times more for energy than their direct competitors in the usa and asia. what are the european institutions doing to protect our businesses and our economy? i'm not doing anything. after months of endless discussions, summits, rooftop workshops on gas prices, on the energy recovery fund, on decoupling the energy market, on joint purchases for european storage, on taxing the extra profits of energy companies, well, after months of discussion nothing has been done. the five star movement has two paths to follow: the commission has already proposed a real, not a fictitious, gas price cap, and massive investment in clean and renewable energy. thanks to solar and wind, our farms, our families can pay less for energy. let's do this
madam president, the crisis we find ourselves in is mainly driven by our overreliance on imported fossil fuels and exacerbated by the terrible situation in ukraine caused by the terrorist state of russia. i believe our upcoming work on market design should focus on targeted improvements as opposed to widespread changes. we can provide investor certainty and protect consumers by incentivising long-term contracts such as contracts for difference and power purchase agreements. this both removes the risk for investments and also protects consumers from price hikes. we should ensure that markets incentivise the development and roll out of energy storage technologies and green hydrogen to provide the backup to the system currently provided by fossil fuels. targeted measures to support the growing number of vulnerable consumers is absolutely vital, and these will grow in number – and next winter, because next winter is probably going to be much worse than this winter. in the meantime, i welcome what commissioner simson made reference to – the development of interconnectors. i welcome the construction of the celtic interconnector between ireland and france. interconnectors like these across the eu will shield us from crises in the future and make renewable energy more reliable and cheaper for consumers. in the meantime, we must act now to help those vulnerable consumers.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's drama is the cost of energy and inflation. i am sorry, but the european commission is playing us for fools by putting a ceiling on the price of gas of 275 euros per megawatt hour which has never been seen, never, not even in the worst of times. we have found the soul of europe with nextgenerationeu and now we are losing it with late and totally illusory measures. we need a sure 2.0, a much more powerful repowereu. on the other hand, national governments are also disappointing, as in the case of the italian right, which has done nothing for the bills except copy and paste the measures of the draghi government and, more than a maneuver, has thought of launching a war between the poor, abolishing the income of citizenship because poverty is a crime and, as in victorian england, those who do not work must not eat and those who do not care. it is the right wing that makes bonuses and cuts invisible excise duties, that thinks of increasing the cash to 5 000 euros and flattening taxes in favour of those who are better off. the right wing spending a lot on pensions and zero on young people, strong with the weak and weak with the strong, the new recipe, but we will not be silent.
the title of the agenda, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is 'a truly interconnected single energy market to contain the cost of electricity bills'. but in the oscar title there is the reality and the concrete facts which the european institution lacks, a european institution which does not miss an opportunity to be respectful, to be serious, to be practical in the face of the worry and the drama of the costly bills of our families and our businesses. if we consider that in italy as many as five million people have at least one bill in arrears, we can see a real drama. if we think that the average household's gas bill in october, november and december 2022 will be twice as high as the previous year, we can understand how important it is that europe gives concrete answers. and unfortunately the answers do not come, while speculation comes, the answers do not even come on the gas roof which, as you well know, is a mockery, on the timing and the size of the application. i really think that once again europe has missed a great opportunity to reach out to its citizens.
madam president, i think the message from all of us here is very simple: time is running out. the last time when i spoke on this same issue here in the chamber, my message was very simple: speed up! since then, what we have seen is just a ping-pong – ping-pong between the commission and the council, without any result. the commission is still stuck on the gas price cap. the council has not yet agreed on the joint purchasing of gas. there are no clear rules on state aid either. companies in one state will have a competitive advantage over others, threatening the key principle of the single market. we need to have a european solution so that we urgently help the citizens struggling with high bills and at the same time have a fair level playing field for all companies in the european internal market.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the energy crisis is likely to be like all the debates that have been held so far and to have the same result as the previous ones: the nothing. we know that if the gas price ceiling, which is the basis for the price of all electricity, had been introduced when the majority of european states asked for it, we would have avoided a bloody economic haemorrhage for the households and businesses of the union, as well as for the 27 national budgets. only yesterday the commission dared to take a stand, proposing an absurd ceiling of €275 per megawatt-hour, which only takes effect under impossible conditions, and which would not have come into force even last august when the price of gas had reached €350. it is no coincidence that speculators in amsterdam celebrated yesterday with a sudden rise. i am sorry to say that this commission proposal is offensive, however stupid and unrealistic it may be. frankly, you could have spared her.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of violence against women is particularly close to my heart. over the years, i have personally been involved in a number of initiatives to try to help women who report their tormentor, their abuser. unfortunately, the figures for violence against women in europe are alarming to say the least. it is estimated that one in three women has been physically or sexually abused. the figures in italy also show a very bad situation. think about it, in 2021, there were 116 women killed, one every three days. offenders too often hide behind the psychiatric report, very often when they get out of prison for good behavior, then commit the same crime. we need exemplary punishments. europe must give clear signals, but above all concrete help to these broken families, families which very often find their mother murdered and their father imprisoned. we must ensure that the children of these families have a future and not just a lot of nice words.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, about one in three women in europe is a victim of physical or psychological violence, so it is clear that the laws we have are not enough. preventing violence and protecting victims is what we have been calling for loudly in this parliament with the report on the impact of domestic violence, which i co-authored, and the report to include gender-based violence as a eurocrime. today we can finally work on the first european directive on violence against women and we cannot afford to lose this opportunity. gender-based violence can never be defeated unless women are empowered to report, and that means making themselves and their children safe and having legal protection and economic independence. we cannot prevent violence unless the sentences are effective and swift, the penalties are certain and the courts are prepared to deal with this phenomenon with specialized staff and interchange between the criminal and civil courts and until the culture of respect is worked on in all schools, starting with the first classes. women will never feel safe if emergency services, law enforcement and first aid personnel are not ready to protect them. this fight must not stop, but it must see us all united towards the same goal.
mr president, the eu has taken too many financial risks on ukraine. that is what the european court of auditors has stated in its last report on european union budget. in 2022 the union has committed eur 7.2 billion of loans to ukraine. european borrowing operations funding this support involve serious risks: ukraine’s default first, fraud and misuse of money as the second. nobody knows how the war in ukraine will end, and if in the future the country will be able to repay its long—term loans. the imf predictions for ukrainian economy are baleful. in case of default there is not enough room in the budget of eu to absorb losses if member states refuse to step in. in such a case, massive cuts to all eu programmes will be unavoidable. nevertheless, the commission now is proposing an mfa+ instrument to provide ukraine for 2023 with up to eur 18 billion in loans in 12 months. if the commission wants to gamble, let us not forget that is handling taxpayers’ money, and in case of losses, we all will be held accountable, not the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a tragic situation where the bureaucracy does not recognize the reality of our society. it is paradoxical that, despite the rights recognised in the treaties, the european union is still unable to take effective action to protect citizens, including rainbow families. life, family and love are born and created beyond the ideological frameworks that certain politicians want to impose and it is our duty that abuses and discrimination such as those that occurred in bulgaria and poland never happen again. and beware, in italy we are not doing better, because with the salvini decrees we have exactly the same problems and we find ourselves in the situation where the courts have to intervene to recognize the rights of the rainbow families. it is time for the european union to adopt common rules on the recognition of unions and parentage, we cannot allow discrimination against citizens, who are denied the right to travel, to have a common health cover or even european citizenship. we live in a free europe where the rights of everyone count, let us do it really and quickly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today when we talk about the financial context of development cooperation, we are forced to acknowledge a bitter reality. the fact that in many member states there is a bounce on immigration and there are also such stupid discussions between states i believe is precisely because there is no evidence and reality. the human beings, the men, as long as they are hungry and have to flee from thirst, hunger, unfortunately from war and any other basic need, they will surely seek survival for themselves and their children and therefore also a safe harbour in europe. the fact that we are going to vote on this text, which is a balanced and timely report, unanimously approved in the commission, is precisely because we are aware that we need more development, more cooperation precisely... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago a wolf's head was found hanging on a road sign in a village in the valchiavenna region. it was a deplorable, violent act, to be condemned, which nevertheless testifies to the degree of conflict between large carnivores and local populations and demonstrates the failure of the life programmes, with more than 24 million euros spent. the reality is that the wolf population in europe is constantly increasing: the number of confirmed cases is now over 21,000, although we know that there are many more. farmers and ranchers, the true guardians of the mountain ecosystem and biodiversity, feel abandoned and even mocked by those institutions that should support and protect them. in italy alone, 18,000 predations were recorded in five years, with 44,000 animals killed by wolves. and that's just a small part of it, because farmers don't even file complaints anymore. it is said that the first step in solving a problem is to take note of it, commissioner. but you do not turn your head the other way, you allow all the possible instruments to be put into place to overcome this situation. the key word must be management, otherwise the conflict will only get worse. there are proposals that can be shared - i am thinking of the swiss proposal - that can find a sustainable meeting point between the needs of local populations, which, in my view, will always have priority, and the needs of nature and the conservation of biodiversity. do not squander centuries of history, tradition and sacrifice in pursuit of a false myth in our mountains, which instead risks bringing back the wolf but making man disappear.
mr president, it is good that the parliament is discussing the big beasts, because many member states, including finland, have already suffered from the damage caused by big beasts for a long time. big cats are part of nature. they are part of the ecosystem and their sustainable status must continue to be protected. at the same time, however, we as decision-makers have a responsibility and a duty to protect people, domestic animals and farm animals from the harm caused by large animals. beasts do not belong in people's yards or animal shelters. we have to find a balance. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. we must also strike a balance between european decision-making and national flexibilities. for example, the level of protection granted should be assessed and, if necessary, actively updated in the eu. i really hope that the commission is prepared to discuss this with the member states and parliament.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have just returned from a series of visits to the alpine area following the hundreds of reports of large carnivores preying on sheep, goats, donkeys, cows, you know, but lately also on pet dogs, in the vicinity of human settlements. i have observed horrifying episodes, the worst of which was a predation of sheep, about a dozen, some of which were killed by wolves with their well-established technique of incapacitating the animal and eating it alive from the stomach. i still have in my mind the eyes of these poor animals, between the suffering and the terror, how they died and how long it took them. i therefore ask the commission, but also the national delegations, of which you are de facto representatives, who will be attending the berne convention meeting next week in strasbourg, to support the request of the swiss government to declassify the wolf from highly protected to protected only, in order to give a more effective management tool in line with regional needs, a request supported by scientific data which classify the wolf no longer as critically endangered but as vulnerable or of lesser concern depending on the region. today, if i have to choose between the wolf and the sheep, i'm with the sheep.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, mrs dlabajová, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs dlabajová for her fruitful cooperation and for having accepted our contributions. this decision sets out concrete digital targets that the european union intends to achieve by the end of the decade, as has been said, and we felt that this was a step in the right direction. but we have included and highlighted the problem of reskilling because we have to find the funding to digitize the people over 50 who are not familiar with these new tools and who have to update themselves to meet the new needs. these generations have a wealth of know-how, information and content and can support the new levers with their experience, who will have digital it skills. the intergenerational meeting must be inclusive if everyone is to benefit and also to achieve the goal of having 20 million specialists employed in the field of information and communication technologies. the european union must therefore use all programmes, especially research, such as building a stronger link with the eit and the digital kic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our companies must be supported in the transition process by targeted training and funding, and european policy must take care of this. we also liked that the commission will develop european-level trajectories together with the member states for each of the digital objectives of the european union, and that the member states will in turn have to commit themselves to developing national strategic trajectories and roadmaps to achieve these objectives, which must be clear and sustainable. in addition, the concept of multinational projects will facilitate investments in areas such as high-performance computing, common data infrastructures and services, blockchain, the high-tech partnership for digital skills and secure quantum infrastructures, as well as the network of cybersecurity centres, digital public administration, testing facilities and digital innovation clusters. many italian companies and industries are interested in these infrastructure projects and we hope that our vote in favour will serve as a catalyst for achieving the objectives set.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has highlighted the need for greater digitisation of our economy and society. the digital transformation offers us a great opportunity to create new opportunities for young europeans and to improve the accessibility of digital skills and make them more usable for all citizens. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. this is achieved by upgrading the digital infrastructure, which must be brought to the highest standards to ensure competitiveness and security. in this context, european production of advanced and sustainable semiconductors should represent at least 20% of the value of world production by 2030. the european industry is in fact coping with the shortage of microchips and semiconductors due to the post-covid-19 financial crisis and only an increase in domestic production will allow our continent to keep pace with competitors such as the united states, india and china. the last aspect to be considered is the digitisation of public services, with the aim of making public services fully accessible online to all citizens by 2030. everyone in the european union should benefit from a quality digital environment that offers easy-to-use, efficient and personalised services and tools with high standards of security and privacy. only by ensuring that all key public services are available online to businesses and citizens will europe be able to strengthen its digital leadership and meet the challenges that globalisation has posed.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the ever-increasing importance and use of digital technology, it is becoming increasingly difficult for citizens and businesses to keep up. new technologies contribute to economic and social development, but they are accompanied by risks, insecurity and misinformation. many small and mediumsized enterprises have been left to their own devices during the transition to it management. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and the implementation of the new rules. data security is also often underestimated. informing and providing guidance on the subject is crucial to the success of this vision. connecting member countries can and should serve to increase financial opportunities through guidelines and protocols that facilitate the exchange of data. europe must be united in setting clear objectives and in indicating the right paths to facilitate this unstoppable progress.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a few quick remarks at the end of this european year of youth. i have visited many schools, i have opened european workshops, places of encounter and discussion where active and responsible participation can be built, i have listened to many young people and i have felt in them the growing need to know their own emotional self. if policy is to have any real impact on the development of our young people, we must promote a school which is able to adopt a formative assessment which is more attentive to faces and emotions than to products and cognitive processes. we need to re-establish a genuine dialogue with young people, and to do that we need to sit down with them, because they are tired of being told, "you have to be more competent, you have to be responsible, you have to be able to design yourself, you have to be resilient". i tried to sit among them and compare myself with them, i understood many things, but one of them: and there are young people who would like a school that is based on deep emotions and genuine relationships and not just on mere knowledge or sterile grades, which have little to do with their emotional selves. i promised them that this school is possible, and with patience and courage we will continue to build it together.
madam president, we’re concerned about the youth participation and engagement in our european project. well, what hundreds of catalan youth are facing right now for their engagement in politics, following their protest, are arrests, trials and prison sentences, police brutality and abuse, and unrelentless infiltration and spying in youth organisations, without – without – judicial oversight. this is the reality of youth today in spain, which is in the european union. meanwhile, mr sánchez’s government is about to pass new laws making repression against dissidents even easier. commissioner, colleagues, we say that we need to engage youth in europe. we have it! youth are committed to justice and freedom. what we need is that the commission stops endorsing repression and starts protecting human rights!
madam president, hello mr commissioner, hello to all those who are young in age but also in spirit. madam president, evropským rokem mládeže chceme povzbudit mladé lidi, kteří v době pandemické covid-19 přišli o mnoho příležitostí. we know that young people don't have to be formal, and we know that we can't solve all their problems in one year. but now that we have the opportunity, let's take it. i really enjoy working with young people. we need their podněty, feedback has also their energie. i would like to thank at this time those who are very active in the center for european volunteering, european youth forum, český mladým lidovcům and mladým demokratům, who have supplied me with their podněty, and know that they are also doing this year's zapojili. for example, the epp4youth event, attended by hundreds of young people, was overshadowed by the opportunity to meet their peers. further actions are being prepared together with the european commission in radou. the final conference with young people will be held on 6 december, which i believe will bring more power. of those which are very often emphasised by young people, i would like to mention one which they consider to be very important, and which requires much better information about eu in the context of school education. maybe to někoho překvapí, but i to logické. young people see their future in the european union and fear misinformation. it appears that one of the ways in which joint projects of teacher training colleges carried out under erasmus+ or jean monnet could be implemented was the european parliament's decision to ask the european commission to take measures to allow the creation of a specific educational framework for european citizenship. to by byl skutečně hmatatelný výsledek letošního roku mládeže a byl by užitný i pro mladé v budoucnosti. to by byl skutečně hmatatelný výsledek letošního roku mládeže a byl by užitný i pro mladé v budoucnosti. to by byl skutečně hmatatelný výsledek letošního roku mládeže a byl by užitný i pro mladé v budoucnosti. to by byl skutečně hmatatelný výsledek letošního roku mládeže a byl by užitný i pro mladé v budoucnosti. to by byl skutečně hmatatelný výsledek letošního roku mládeže a byl by užitný i pro mladé v budoucnosti.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks after the end of the year we have the opportunity to discuss the european year of youth. a year that has missed its goals, first of all to really reach out to the younger generations of europeans, to understand their needs, especially after the pandemic and in the midst of the current social crisis. i would remind the commission that we still have time to act and give concrete answers. firstly, by implementing the eu youth test to ensure that young people are meaningfully involved in the political decision-making process. young people must be able to have a say when decisions are made on policies that will affect their future. it is time to combat youth unemployment and give them the opportunity to enter the world of work with quality opportunities, starting with a european regulatory framework that prohibits unpaid traineeships and apprenticeships, and in this respect the commission and the member states must certainly do their part, but parliament must also be clear and united in this demand. we must first say enough of the free-work era so that we can gain experience. education creates equality, but if the first step after graduation is an unpaid internship, we are merely maintaining existing inequalities. the pandemic has already forced young people to put their lives on hold. the least we can do is give them a head start on their career path without being in debt. we owe it to them for the europe of the future. finally, it is essential for us to continue this work by extending the european year of youth until 9 may 2023.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i will speak as the simple parent of a boy who is 100 per cent disabled and not as a member of this parliament, and for a minute i will ideally be the father of all the disabled who cannot be here. i have read the report 'towards equal rights for disabled people' carefully and wonder why all the european institutions have never paid full attention to the real problems faced on a daily basis by disabled people, their families and those who lovingly care for them. the marginalization, discrimination, especially in the workplace, the insurmountable bureaucratic difficulties, the differences in health care and economic support within the member states are still too much ignored, when it is precisely by full respect and attention to the disabled that the real level of civilization of an organized and democratic community is measured. i am speaking as a member of this parliament and i can only say that the report we are discussing includes, in addition to people with disabilities, other categories of citizens who need other forms of protection, which no one denies, but which are certainly not comparable or superimposable to those of disabled people. why can't disabled people be the subject of a specific and autonomous relationship and why is it necessary to include other categories which have nothing to do with the world and the needs of disabled people? yet we are talking about 87 million european citizens, 24 million of whom are severely disabled, not to mention children. are they not sufficient to exclude other categories from protection? finally, i would like to thank our president, mrs roberta metsola, for giving us this pin of parliament, and i am one of those who can wear it with my head held high.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have recently seen a renewed and unanimous awareness of the issue of disability, as evidenced by the numerous legislative proposals and the increasingly frequent institutional debates. it is clear, however, that this is not enough and that it must be made clear. there are too many barriers to the active participation of people with disabilities in society, from training in schools, where barriers to inclusion still persist, to employment, where prejudice often trumps skills. if we add to this the fact that in many member states there is still no legal and tax recognition for carers who assist disabled people, we see that there are still many gaps. in short, there is an urgent need for practical but also cultural change, which allows people with disabilities to feel that they are protagonists and not just recipients of welfare policies, and which allows each of us to recognize ourselves in a truly inclusive and accessible society for all.
member of the commission. – madam president, it’s non—negotiable. the strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities is anchored in all the rights of the un convention. recognising persons with disabilities as rights owners is the entry point to a change of perspective in disability policies. persons with disabilities are citizens entitled to, like everybody else, to take their decisions, have ambition, develop their talents and flourish in their private, educational and professional lives. we listened carefully to you while setting the priorities in the strategy, as you know, and we expect continued cooperation with you, the house of european democracy, as the strategy becomes a practical reality. all three institutions must take seriously the implementation of the strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities and discuss ways to address and to better our practices in that regard. i value all opportunities, including today’s debate, to develop our work. together, we can progress towards building a union of equality.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 december 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. ensuring equal rights for persons with disabilities is essential for a socially sensitive european union committed not only in words but also in deeds to european values. for many years, a detailed and very important debate has been taking place here in the european parliament on the equality of persons with disabilities. however, we must recognise that this policy issue is a multi-dimensional and multi-layered problem requiring a complex approach. among our fellow citizens with disabilities, children, women and members of ethnic minorities deserve special attention, as they may be affected by other disadvantages, and are affected throughout the union. this is why we must also focus on facilitating integration processes on the path to equal rights. thus, in the areas of education, employment, housing and health, there is a need for coordinated programmes that address the interests of people with disabilities and that are able to address the full range of challenges posed by social disparities. hungary is committed to improving the living conditions of citizens with disabilities, ensuring their rights and promoting their integration into the labour market. i would also recommend that the european parliament adopt the hungarian good practice, encourage the political, social and economic participation of people with disabilities, consciously dismantle the barriers in the fields of education, housing, employment and health and take the interests of people with disabilities into account, rather than politicizing the issue and using it for ideological purposes.
in writing. there are about 87 million people with disabilities in europe. the data on these people is alarming: only half of them are in employment, 28% are at risk of poverty and social exclusion and 52% feel at risk of discrimination. in the last week alone, i've read two stories that have hurt me immensely: the first concerns a disabled girl who was denied boarding at bergamo airport because the battery in her wheelchair was not compliant. the second is about a group of visually impaired people who were denied entry to the notre dame de paris show, despite having paid for a regular ticket. it is not acceptable in 2022, to have to read news like this again! it is precisely against discrimination that we must fight as european parliamentarians, acting in the various sectors of society, from work to school, from culture to mobility, so that people with disabilities do not suffer from double discrimination in their everyday lives. the european charter on disability should also be implemented immediately in all eu countries, with immediate and mutual recognition of the status of disabled persons. these are commitments we can no longer postpone!
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the outcome of cop27 (2022/2966 ((rsp)).
executive vice—president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, if we want to evaluate cop27, i think we need to start a bit before – a couple of months before – and see where we were internationally, leading into cop27. i attended several meetings, including the g—20, where major emitters were trying to step back, quite substantially, from the agreements we had reached in glasgow in cop26. so the months leading up to cop27 weren’t very auspicious for the most ambitious amongst us. secondly, a confrontation was growing between the developed world and the developing world on the issue of adaptation, but especially on loss and damage. so this combination of major emitters trying to step back from their commitments, and an increasing confrontational attitude from developing countries because they felt not being heard by the developed world, did not bode well for the preparation of cop27. now, i think the results are a lot better than what i expected before and i want to start by thanking both the council and parliament for playing a very active role on the spot, but especially in the preparation. because one of the myths that was created in the months ahead was that because of the war, europe was stepping back from its commitment in the green deal, was digging up a lot of coal and that all our commitments would be lost. and thanks to the very hard work of the co—legislators, we could go to sharm el—sheikh and explain very clearly that we are not just sticking to our commitments of reducing our emissions with at least 55% by 2030, but that we would overshoot that commitment already on the basis of the three pieces of legislation agreed between the co—legislators, between parliament and the council. so, we could take that thing at the beginning of the second week of cop off the table, and we could still show clearly that we remained ambitious. in the days leading up to the end of the cop, tensions were high because of attempts to step away from the commitments in glasgow, and also because of the proposal put on the table by g77 plus china on a fund for loss and damage, which would mirror earlier funds and which would not look at countries in terms of their role in emissions, but only whether in 1992 they were considered developing countries, yes or no. i think at some point in close dialogue and cooperation with both the member states and the ministers present, who were all extremely active during the cop, and the delegation of the european parliament, we came to the conclusion that europe should try and bridge these differences by coming up with a plan, especially on loss and damage, that would not start from 1992 but from the situation now. so that would do a couple of things: that would address the responsibility of all those who are major emitters and all those who can afford to take responsibility; that would focus the loss and damage fund on the most vulnerable countries and not spread it out to all developing countries; and that would be able to use what we call the ‘mosaic of measures’ from all other instruments, including, for instance, reforming the international financial institutions, putting the mdbs in a different position, the private sector engaging with the private sector etc. when the european union put this on the table – and i discussed it on behalf of the eu with the secretary general, with my colleagues from the us and china – especially the us and china were taken aback a bit that we were doing this. china thought that the g77 plus china plan was the one that would carry the day; the americans thought that there would be no plan at all. so when we came up with this idea, i think we were able to create – as the secretary general of the un put it – a new situation where we did not have a confrontation between a classical developing world and a developed world, but we would distinguish, especially on the basis of whether you are a major emitter or not, and look at those countries that needed support more than those who needed less. i think this was an important breakthrough that allowed us to bring parties closer together and also allowed us to insist on at least not stepping back from our commitments made in glasgow. and we can use the mitigation work programme now to make sure that these commitments are still solid and strong in the months and the years to come. all in all, my verdict – as you know – on the mitigation side was negative at the end of the cop. my verdict on the loss and damage fund is positive because it will allow us – if we act collectively and strongly in the months to come – to shape it in a completely different form than previous attempts to address the issue. and the combination between the mitigation work programme and the work on the fund would allow us to shape it in a way that takes our commitments into the future in a positive way. i know that the incoming presidency of cop is very ambitious on these issues. i also know, we’re still faced with huge challenges in the time to come, but all in all, the results of the cop will allow us to move forward, will allow us to bring along the major emitters who, some of them, wanted to step back from the commitments, who are still in to the commitments, and will allow us also in the combination of the just energy transition plans to also take some of the major emitters in the global south with us in the right direction. all in all, my verdict today is positive. we would have liked to see much more on mitigation. we got, i think, a good result on loss and damage. i think we also have an opportunity to work very closely with those most vulnerable also in adaptation. and i think, all in all, the european union showed real leadership, and we were the ones building the bridges, we were the ones who were able to get a result that everybody could sign up to.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i listened to your speech and i was struck by how you characterised the achievement of loss and damage. and it is an enormous achievement because one felt immediately afterwards that it wasn’t presented in that way by the commission, that somehow or another the g77 position was challenged and maybe there was a better way to do it than loss and damage. and i listened to the distinction you draw between 1992 and today and different developing countries, and all of those are very legitimate. but this is an enormous achievement – what has been done at cop27 – because for the first time it recognises those who pollute more, those who possess more must do more, and that if you break it, which we did, you fix it, which we should, and that is now locked into the principle of how we’re going to approach this issue. it’s about climate justice, something that my compatriot mary robinson has spoken so passionately about over the years. and it’s an achievement because we have a credibility problem in the european union. i’ve just come back from marrakech, where i had discussions with my african liberal colleagues over two days, and they are struck by the fact that we’re opening coal mines, you’ve mentioned it yourself, commissioner, they are struck by the fact that we’re pricing them out of the lng market, that we have allowed for loopholes in relation to gas exploration, and they are challenging us to be real partners on this issue. and i sincerely believe that we have to get over the credibility issue that is really challenging the european union. and i will say, finally, that i think you are correct in saying that we have made a solid achievement here, but we also cannot gaslight g77 countries with the positions that they rightfully took.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, thank you to the commissioner for the introduction and indeed pointing out that probably the biggest success of sharm el—sheikh was indeed the loss and damage fund. and i do indeed have to commend that; europe took the turn there, which was crucial for having a good outcome there. but i think we all are very well aware and you mentioned it as well that for the rest sharm el—sheikh was a disappointment, especially on ambition and the gap that is still there to staying below the 1.5 degrees. we did not succeed and unfortunately the world did not succeed. and, basically, compared to glasgow, we lost a year, which you also said after that cop. i don’t want to go looking back now; i think what’s now most important is how are we going to prepare for cop28. what are the steps to be taken, and what lessons can be learned? and there i have a couple of questions. first of all, the very simple one, when will europe increase its ndc? because that’s what we are calling parties for to increase their ndc. we did it when we came out of glasgow. now we do it again when we come out of sharm el—sheikh. so when will europe take that step? i think it would be very helpful to hear from you on when you’re going to push for that. secondly, on fossil subsidies, we are always saying that we want to finish fossil subsidies, but tomorrow we will probably have the last negotiations on repowereu, where there will be fossil subsidies. there will be. but i think then mostly important is how to make sure we limit them and how to make sure that at least it’s not going to oil, which is also on the table and hopefully can still be defeated. so, i here also really call upon the commission to take a strong stance and to really support some of the proposals from parliament. the clock was not really on 2 minutes. i have no idea where it was, but i’ll be brief, but i am sure not at 2 minutes yet, madam chair. so that’s going to be important as well. but i think the last most important part is how are we going to build alliances with third world countries, former third world countries, to indeed to overcome this north versus south divide. and i think that’s also very crucial. and we did not succeed enough last year or this year. so how can we improve that for next year? last point – which also my colleague burkhardt mentioned – it’s on what the un needs to do for the room and the space for the civil society. it was really concerning to see that there was hardly any space for civil society; at a cop there needs to be space for civil society, so i would also like to hear from the commission what kind of actions towards the united nations we’re going to take to ensure that civil society can play its role when it’s needed.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the only outcome of cop27 was the creation of the 'loss and damage' fund, money that will be paid by the more developed countries to the developing countries, despite the latter's refusal to commit to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. i do not share this ideology, which imposes self-flagellation on europe and the most advanced democracies of the world, as if development were a crime to be expiated, but what i am referring to is the principle that those who pollute less will have to pay for it, and that this also gives them an unfair advantage in world economic competition. it is no coincidence that china, which alone emits five times the co2 of the entire european union, will probably be among the beneficiaries. the european union is also a major player in the fight against climate change, and we are all aware of the fact that the united states is the world's largest producer of greenhouse gases.
in the name of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur, mrs carvalhais, and all the other members for the compromises reached, even though our proposals were not included. the rural areas certainly represent a great opportunity, both for our young people, who want to rediscover the value of the land, and for those who have to invent or reinvent themselves, playfully, a new life, and consequently a new job, because of the events that have befallen us in recent years. the search for jobs and the opportunity to create an economic base in the areas bordering our countries must be at the forefront of policy objectives. rural areas in the european union are home to about 30% of the population, yet cover about 80% of the total area of the european union. given their size, they must be developed and policies implemented which attract people, providing them with the same services and opportunities as the more vocationally attractive urban areas. this is why we must also focus on innovation and research to make these areas more welcoming, also with the invaluable help of universities and local authorities who have the most real pulse of life in these areas. as a league and as an id group we support all the efforts being made to defend the rural regions of italy and europe, but we must ensure that these populations, and above all our farmers, are also protected against the new pitfalls, such as large carnivores for example. the right to protect a company must be guaranteed to those who want to set it up. we therefore believe that we need to take a stronger stand, because large carnivores have an impact on the viability of agriculture, particularly on extensively managed agricultural land, and we believe that a balanced coexistence between humans and these predators in rural areas needs to be ensured. we think that the text is fairly balanced overall, but we would have liked to have had more, you have not listened to us. you've been wrong on more than one occasion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, rural areas are an essential part of the european way of life and are fundamental to the economic, social and environmental functioning of our society. they are home to 137 million people. despite their strengths, rural areas, particularly the remote and less developed ones, of which there are many in sicily and sardinia, face significant challenges that are difficult to overcome unless they are adequately supported. this is why the european green deal must open up new opportunities, particularly in the transition to a low-carbon economy. we value these areas so much that they are vital to our food production and self-sufficiency, and to the preservation of our natural resources, our landscapes and our biodiversity, as well as our cultural heritage. it is good that there is a rural action plan, but be careful not to leave it isolated like a totem. on the contrary, the development of rural areas must be harmonized with that of urban areas, for which it is indispensable.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the problems facing the airport sector at the moment are primarily linked to an employment policy which has not been able to protect workers during the pandemic. thousands of employees have been laid off, and now airlines and airport companies are struggling to fill the vacancies, overworking those already on the job. this is a worrying situation because it can put the safety of travellers at risk. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. in addition, the shortage of ground staff, which has been reduced by 29%, is leading to shortcomings in the operations necessary for the operation of airports, which mainly relate to baggage handling, or to the assistance to be provided, for example, to disabled people. this is unacceptable! the european union should be at the forefront of protecting travellers and workers. let's move, thank you!
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank all my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, the secretariat, the staff of the political groups and the parliamentary assistants for the constructive work we have carried out over the past few months, which will conclude tomorrow with the adoption of our report on the action plan to promote long-distance and cross-border passenger rail services. this is very important work, which has enabled us to define the priorities and requirements of the sector in a unified way, with the aim of improving the operation of the railway network at more affordable costs. a competitive sector of our economy which employs thousands of workers who provide services to citizens, but which needs to become more attractive than other modes of transport for passengers and goods. our document pursues a wide range of objectives, including the creation of a single, safe and fully interoperable european rail system; improving sustainability and job creation. it was considered essential to ensure the intermodality of the railway system with other transport systems, including through the promotion of single multimodal tickets, in order to foster a continuity solution for passengers who can travel easily with a single ticket across different modes of transport. we want to protect the rights of passengers with our proposal: equal accessibility, improving transport efficiency, reducing travel times and prices, promoting fair competition between railway operators and between different modes of transport, and the need for the full involvement of young people, both as users and as workers. i am confident that the development of long-distance and crossborder rail passenger transport will play a significant role in promoting the european single market, ensuring a level playing field for the various players, while preserving the principle of mobility as a service and its role in promoting the socioeconomic cohesion of europe's regions. from the beginning of this journey, i have set myself the objective of promoting the point of view of all those territories which are most disadvantaged, stressing the importance of developing local connections, also to connect the suburbs and islands to the big cities. that is why i wanted to emphasize together the need to improve connectivity, with particular attention to remote, island, mountain and sparsely populated regions. there can be no effective crossborder transport without connections to remote areas, even within individual member states. the report therefore stresses the importance of stimulating investment to complete the ten-t in a timely manner, giving priority to allocating funds to strategic projects, eliminating bottlenecks and missing links and completing last mile segments, in the logic of maintaining a market-oriented approach for high speed and long distance, while ensuring public service and continuity of routes. the aim is to digitise, simplify legislation and eliminate cumbersome technical provisions and procedures in order to ensure better train availability. it will also be important to adapt the training and certification of railway staff to future needs and to make the sector an attractive option for young people. we have many objectives to achieve by preparing legislative proposals, and therefore, while thanking the commissioner for her willingness to do so, we ask the european commission to proceed in this direction, in accordance with what we have indicated in this document, in the interests of the citizens and the sector.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, article 80 of the treaty on european union on immigration and asylum policies states that the union's policies are governed by the principle of solidarity, of the fair sharing of responsibility between the member states, including on the financial side. according to the latest frontex data, over 280 000 irregular border crossings to europe were recorded in the first ten months of 2022, an increase of 77% compared to 2021. in dealing with the migration emergency, italy has been left completely alone and the much-vaunted european solidarity has unfortunately remained only on paper. we have had enough of promises from the european union, we want quick answers, we want a shared management of migration flows and we expect common solutions. italy cannot be europe's refugee camp and that alone.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this house, this institution, costs european citizens billions of euros every year, and billions of hopes, of desires, of different visions of the future also depend on our work and on how we honour the trust that has been placed in us. the news of these days, the bags of money hidden in the house as in the worst comedies and the total lack of respect for european citizens which lobbyists from third countries, together with disloyal members, former members, collaborators and trade unionists have shamelessly demonstrated, is one of the saddest and most disgusting pages of this institution. the dishonesty of some cannot destroy the good work of others, it is true, but there are 450 million europeans to defend, protect and respect. let us prove ourselves superior to this filth with facts and create more efficient anti-corruption systems, otherwise this building, this institution and, therefore, all our work will no longer make sense.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for his specific approach. ideology and bureaucracy are the first elements that must be counteracted to achieve an energy transition tailored to the territories. on the subject of green hydrogen, the technologies are improving, the prices, which, i recall, are 70% electricity and 30% electrolysers, are falling, but the demand is growing and the market actually still needs to be created. the search for energy autonomy for the union is moving in the right direction, but this parliament does not always manage to legislate with a roadmap that is consistent with the possibilities and generation capacities of the member states. sustainability must not only be environmental, but it must also extend to the social and economic side, because if companies close or relocate and if jobs are lost, then we have failed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the amendments to the directive on the promotion of renewable energies proposed by the commission set even more unrealistic and unsustainable targets for the member states than those already provided for in the fit for 55 package of july 2021, requiring a 13% reduction in energy consumption by 2030, which can only be achieved through massive deindustrialization. the measures to speed up the authorization of renewable energy production facilities will certainly benefit the companies that produce and sell solar panels, but it is simply illusory, indeed misleading, to think that they can make up for the energy deficit that currently afflicts europe, because of choices based solely on ideological reasons and geopolitical objectives that have nothing to do with, and are in conflict with, the interests of european industry and the european economy. a new list of useless, self-destructive homework is the last thing we need: i would like to see the european union's policies stop choking its member states with absurd prescriptions and start the process of reversing before we crash.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, madam commissioner, honourable members of parliament, thank you for putting this important topic on the agenda and for holding this policy debate. let me start by congratulating the rapporteur, ms salima yenbou, as well as the culture and education committee for their excellent work on the very comprehensive report. culture and cultural diversity are a vital part of our society and should therefore be considered essential dimensions of the european project. in the last two years, and as the european parliament correctly highlighted, culture and cultural and creative sectors have been under particular stress due to a number of factors. against this background, i would like to underline that the 2018 new european agenda for culture and the 2016 joint communication of the european commission, ‘towards an eu strategy for international cultural relations’, still reflect the eu political priorities in the cultural fields and with regard to both the internal and the external dimensions of cultural policies. furthermore, the council welcomes the special focus that the european parliament report has on a number of elements and, in particular, the accessibility of culture, eu funding opportunities, the engagement of civil society, as well as the contribution of culture to social cohesion, sustainable development and the fight against climate change. i would like also to recall that the council has been operating on the basis of multiannual work plans for culture prepared by member states since 2002 and implemented in coordination with the european commission and with the support of the creative europe programme. these work plans serve the purpose of providing joint solutions to common challenges, as well as more structured procedures for cooperation in the area of culture at european level. the eu work plan for culture for the period 2023 to 2026 was approved by the education, youth, culture and sport council on 29 november 2022 in the form of a council resolution. this plan addresses new priorities and challenges such as the current energy crisis. furthermore, the external dimension of culture has been significantly strengthened including, inter alia, through specific support to ukrainian artists and the protection of ukrainian cultural heritage. the synergies with other relevant policy fields have been discussed for many years, and we can still see a lot of barriers and challenges when trying to communicate with different sectors. thinking out of the box, it’s still a great challenge. let me conclude by stressing that the european union, in its complexity, has at its disposal a significant number of initiatives and instruments in the area of cultural policy. and we should now focus not only on implementation but also on its complementarity. we should aim not only at the efficient use of those instruments, but mainly at efficient outcomes of cooperation between different policy fields. we count on the support of the european parliament in this endeavour. dear mr president, madam commissioner, honourable members of parliament, thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. mr president. mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me congratulate the rapporteur, mrs salima yenbou, on her work, her commitment and her vision. i also thank the fictitious rapporteurs, the members of the cult committee and the members of the european parliament. thank you for your work of evaluation and reflection on all that has been achieved in recent years in the context of the new european agenda for culture. yes, four years have passed since the commission adopted this agenda in 2018. this was preceded in 2016 by the joint communication of the commission and the high representative entitled 'towards a european union strategy in the field of international cultural relations'. now, in accordance with the strategic framework defined by this agenda, i would like to present our action in the cultural field along three lines. first, the social dimension, then the economic dimension, and finally the external dimension of cultural heritage. i would like to begin by drawing attention to the social dimension, i would even say the societal one. it is about using the power of culture to make everyone feel included. in a word, what brings us together. we have supported research, the work of experts on culture, social inclusion, mental health, gender equality, civic engagement and the working conditions of artists. we have worked closely with the member states. we developed targeted recommendations and exchanges of best practice. however, we cannot stop here on the pretext of what we have already done. on the contrary, we must be fully involved. the work continues. for example, we have succeeded in putting the contribution of culture to mental health at the top of the commission's agenda, as was shown in president von der leyen's state of the union address this year. an inter-service group has been set up at the commission, and we have co-organised an event with the european parliament on this, with the support of the chair of the cult committee, sabine verheyen. in this sense, the reading grid of the agenda has made a difference, both in terms of procedure and in terms of our support. as regards the project selection procedure, the new creative europe regulation 2021-2027 is much more incisive in its promotion of inclusion. no project can now be supported without a strategy for gender equality, inclusion and diversity. in the background, we can also see the adaptation of our devices. this is the case with our support for artistic mobility. do you remember the iportunus pilot project, now called culture moves europe? with a budget of €21 million until 2025, it will enable around 7,000 artists, creators and cultural professionals to go abroad, co-create and present their works to new audiences. finally, the social dimension also means thinking about our actions for the younger generation, in this european year of youth and beyond. with this in mind, i will launch a european authors' day on 27 march to celebrate the talents of our authors and to share the love of reading and the power of works. i'm counting on your support here. i would now like to mention the economic dimension of our actions in the field of culture. you are right, madam rapporteur: in the face of the devastating effects of the covid-19 pandemic, which has hit the cultural and creative sectors particularly hard, maximum flexibility in the implementation of our support programmes, coupled with the recovery and resilience mechanism, was a response to support the recovery. i would like to remind you that over 10 billion euros, or an average of 2% of the overall budget at european level, will be allocated to the cultural and creative sectors, and i would like to thank the european parliament for its unfailing support. beyond the closures related to health restrictions, the pandemic has highlighted the fragile situation of cultural professionals. in this respect, work on the status and working conditions of artists and cultural professionals is a priority. in 2020, we published an expert study that brings together different cases observed in member states and offers important recommendations. i am glad to see this subject included in the council's work programme on culture adopted at the end of november. now count on my efforts to keep this subject at the top of the european agenda. i am convinced that, in the face of the great challenges of our time, we need to unleash the full creativity of the cultural and creative sectors. to do this, we need a strong sector that can work as an ecosystem. in this respect, the european institute of innovation and technology's knowledge and innovation community 'culture and creativity' is a major step forward. this new kic will create a pull-up effect to create immediate opportunities. a consortium of 50 partners from 20 countries is kicking off this ambitious project, with a start-up grant of €6 million from horizon europe. we have also launched concrete projects around which i intend to unite the sector. this is the case with our project european collaborative cloud for cultural heritage, a european cloud for cultural heritage. this tool, dedicated to cultural institutions, will make it possible to advance the digitisation of cultural works and, in so doing, will open up new possibilities for the enhancement of our heritage. i now come to the last axis: the strengthening of international cultural relations, illustrated in particular by our preparatory action 'european cultural area'. the western balkans, africa and ukraine are among our priority areas of cooperation, and concrete examples are: a ministerial platform with the western balkans launched last june, support for ukraine with real flexibility of action and, in particular, a call for €5 million for professionals in the cultural and creative sectors in the creative europe work programme, or effective support under the cultures move europe programme, our cultural cooperation with acp countries, with specific cultural actions and initiatives, such as creative togo, with €6 million allocated to strengthen the creative capacity of local actors. the question, of course, is: 'do we give visibility to good practice? can we have a critical mass that allows us to once again show the unique strength of culture in promoting our values, in what brings us together and what makes our societies more resilient? other finally, madam rapporteur, good news: today the college is due to adopt the action plan to combat trafficking in cultural goods. i am, of course, delighted to continue working with all of you on these various subjects. thank you very much for your attention. i shall be very interested in your recommendations and reactions.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are rewriting the priorities of the european cultural agenda. as you can imagine, the arguments are many and varied. covid has left thousands of people and artists without jobs. that is why we have wanted to protect the entrepreneurs in the sector, almost always the owners of small and mediumsized enterprises, by demanding that easy access to credit be guaranteed; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome one. as the arts and culture sector provides opportunities for growth, learning and development, i believe we have a duty to look at women entrepreneurs in this field as well. it is therefore our task to ensure that culture becomes increasingly a cross-cutting sector, that it enters into our daily lives. it is our duty to protect it and with it to protect our european artistic heritage. to this end, i hope that this house will vote tomorrow on our amendment on the protection of artistic and cultural heritage, which provides, where necessary, for exemptions for the cultural sector from the prohibitions on the use of certain materials. it may seem a legislative gimmick, but not only does the integrity of our historic cathedrals, our murano stained glass, our hand-painted bell-ceramics, which are renowned throughout the world, depend on it, but so do the families of the artisans and restorers, who are increasingly and indifferently denied the use of the tools of their work. in this time of war and catastrophe we cannot afford to put at risk our european cultural heritage, which is part of our identity and which, once lost, will be lost forever.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the work we have done on this report, thanks also to rapporteur salima yenbou, has been important and has seen the cult committee engaged in evaluating both the new european agenda for culture 2018 and the eu strategy for international cultural relations, two strategic documents that define our cultural priorities. europe has changed profoundly over the years. among the greatest challenges, first the pandemic, now the conflict that knows no end. these challenges and the resulting changes require the union to revise its strategic framework for culture and international cultural relations with more targeted and ambitious objectives. reminding us all that culture is always a bridge, even and especially when the guns are talking. i am encouraged to see that among the priorities of the newly approved work plan for culture 2023-2026 stands out the will to strengthen the role of artists and professionals in the cultural world, working so that this dynamic ecosystem can grow even more. in the cultural and creative world, more than a third of all workers are self-employed or freelance. very often the minimum wage does not apply and many workers, if laid off, have no alternative sources of income. in addition, differences in legislation between member states on the legal status of artists hamper cross-border collaboration and work. the arts and culture are not a commodity, they keep us alive, they bring hope of emancipation, they give meaning to solidarity and to the exercise of our freedom. finally, the new work plan for culture is certainly an opportunity. however, i would like to stress that this ambition requires adequate funding. good intentions are not enough, we need to invest more in culture, both at eu level, by strengthening programmes such as creative europe in the next multiannual budget, and at national level, where states should develop new alternative and stable sources of funding for cultural and creative sectors that today only recover a fraction of the economic value they generate.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, promoting the internal and external dimension of cultural policies is not only one of the cornerstones of the creation of a european educational area, but strengthening european identity and providing citizens, especially young people, with the means to act in society with autonomy and responsibility is not enough if we do not succeed in conveying a real social dimension that is inclusive. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the 'competent authority's' activities. i believe, then, that by encouraging the active and passive participation of people and cultural and artistic activities, we will be able to set off a positive steering wheel, useful in identifying and removing obstacles for marginalized, disadvantaged and vulnerable groups. education, culture and youth policies have a central role to play in building a resilient, competitive and supportive europe for the future. it is up to us to carry them out with strength and conviction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of culture the european union has competence for actions to support and coordinate the actions of the member states. initiatives to develop international cultural relations are welcome, without forgetting the provisions of article 167 of the treaty, namely that 'the union shall contribute to the full development of the cultures of the member states, with due regard for their national diversity', with the aim of improving the knowledge and dissemination of the culture and history of the peoples of europe. we do not want a europe of nations, but a europe of peoples. i remember the great venetians, the friulians, the bavarians, the catalans, the basques, the bretons and so on. there can be no european union without safeguarding and promoting local history, traditions and individual identities and without respecting the will of the people, even if it is inconvenient for the european financial elite or the european elite.
mr president, commissioner, minister balaš, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's inadequate action is condemning 18 million children to poverty and permanent social exclusion, and all this is happening in the almost total indifference of governments and institutions, which underestimate a dramatic situation, without taking into account the real consequences for families and children. it is unacceptable that, in the face of the many crises we are experiencing, the union is unable to provide itself with the budget and the appropriate instruments to guarantee decent living conditions for children living in poverty. the slogan on which president von der leyen built her mandate, "no one should be left behind", after the initial enthusiasm, seems today to have left room for the restoration of selfishness and austerity, where the life of a child equals a cost and its future rights to a negligible goal. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments, including the european neighbourhood instrument (enif) and the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments. every single delay, every single uncertainty, only aggravates the situation and precludes any possibility of human and social redemption.
in writing. the current energy and food crisis has a negative impact on the situation of children at risk of poverty and social exclusion, making it even more difficult to achieve the objectives of the european child guarantee. additional resources are needed to ensure that children in need, including those temporarily present on eu territory as a result of the war in ukraine, have effective and free access to basic services such as education and schooling, health care, as well as effective access to healthy food and adequate housing. like other meps, i believe that a specific financial allocation for the european child guarantee and an increase in additional resources beyond those provided for in the esf+, reacteu and national recovery and resilience plans are urgently needed. preventing and combating child poverty contributes to the protection of children's rights, equal opportunities and to countering disadvantages in their future adult lives.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. is there any objection to that? that's not the case right now. the minutes are approved.
the next item is question time with questions to the commission. i would like to welcome the executive vice-president, mrs vestager, to this question time. it's good to have you with us. the theme of this question time is 'protecting strategic infrastructure from chinese influence'. the question time will last approximately 90 minutes, depending on the number of questions. the time allotted for the debate is well known: one minute for the question, two minutes for the answer, 30 seconds for a supplementary question and two minutes for the answer. i would point out that a possible supplementary question is admissible only if it is closely related to the first question and does not contain a new subject or question. if you have a question, i would ask you to register your request now by using the spontaneous voice mail function of your voting machine after you have inserted your voting card or it is still in there. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. so i ask you again to make your request now.
mr president, commissioner, it is not long since some people in this house were still arguing that nord stream 2 is not a geopolitical weapon. it appears that we have not learned our lesson. just months ago we have passed an important directive on the protection of critical infrastructure. but yet today, huawei covers nearly 60% of germany’s 5g network, cosco owns 67% of piraeus. nuctech is bidding to provide technology for our external borders. as a result, the ccp can have access to incredible amount of information, including our biometric data. all these companies are directly or indirectly linked to the totalitarian regime of the ccp. if we truly want to protect our critical infrastructure and our democracies from the influence of china and other authoritarian regimes, then quite simply, we need to keep them out. and the question is: are we doing enough to keep them out?
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, it’s always difficult to say when you do enough. i think what can be said is that more is being done, and much more is being done. here of course there is a division of labour between member states and commission, the european democracy as such. but i’d say from the last commission that i was part of, when jean-claude juncker said that nord stream 2 was not part of european interest with an eu-china strategy, that clearly defined china as an economic competitor, a systemic rival and a partner. when it comes to climate change a lot has changed and i really appreciate the work done by parliament in order to create a legislative frame that puts a much stronger responsibility on member states, on the different entities responsible for different part of essential infrastructure in order to risk assess, to mitigate risks, to report risks, and to make sure that, if something is happening, that it is being mitigated. and also, i think the ramping up of being able to do foreign direct investment screening is a very good sign of this awareness as to what we should be careful with today. europe is one of the most attractive destinations for foreign direct investments, but it’s important that you come to europe to do business and not to do surveillance or to steal data, or whatever purposes that are not in our common and our public interest. i think now 18 member states would have foreign direct screening mechanisms. another eight are going to have it. the commission has a say if there is a common interest and of course we stand ready to use it if necessary.
i do understand. and thank you for the answer that the member states have to do also their homework. but maybe i will focus on the question of nuctech bidding for protection ... for providing technology to in order to protect our external borders. because i believe that this is where exactly the eu can act. and if there is any attempts to do something about this bit and how we are going to resolve this issue.
executive vice-president of the commission. – thank you very much for the follow—up. it’s not my portfolio, i don’t know the details of the tender, but i can say that one of the things that are of utmost importance is, of course, that tenders are safe. we have been working with tendering in a number of different ways. we do that for the international purchasing instrument where we ask for reciprocity, so that you can only bid with us if european businesses can bid with them with the foreign subsidies instruments. we have an increasing awareness of the fact that you should not come and outbid european businesses if you have subsidies on your books. and last but not least, if bids are simply too cheap, they can be discarded in order not to be relevant. but i don’t know the details of the exact tender that you’re referring to.
mr president, madam executive vice-president, mrs vestager, i would like to know whether you think that the 18 member states which have already implemented their own rules on investment control - precisely in order to be able to protect the union's strategic infrastructures from the influence of investments from countries like china, which defend their interests, which are not compatible with ours - have coordinated and made compatible what each of them does. i understand that it is still a short time, but i think it is important to have analyses that can be updated regularly. i think that important measures have been taken: control of investments, foreign subsidies, the epi, but they have been taken mainly in response to crisis situations. the same applies to the mechanism allowing the extension of state aid. outside of the crisis periods, what's left? will we be able to continue to defend the interests of european industry against the interference of countries like china?
executive vice-president of the commission. – unfortunately, i don’t think that this is just a crisis moment. i think this is the beginning of an increased awareness that we need to take better care of ourselves. and we have seen sort of the ramping up over the last couple of years actually to build a system that can be responsive if there is something that should not be as it were supposed to be. and this is why, of course, the foreign direct screening investment is very, very important. now, as i said, we are still in the process of every member state to establish this. we have seen it into effect quite a couple of times. it is not public what is in these screening mechanisms for business confidentiality reasons. what is important is to avoid loopholes in our protection. and this is, of course, why for the commission it is real important that all member states get on board and establish with themselves the screening mechanism when it comes to foreign direct investment. we do what i think the commission should do. we provide our opinions. we can both do that when asked, but we can also do that sort of if we find that there is a need to do so. and we do think that it is a commission role to have a pan-european approach to foreign direct investment in a specific member state if we think that there is a risk to the physical security of infrastructure or the cybersecurity of infrastructure if an investment does happen.
madam vice president, thank you very much for your answer. he is right, measures have been taken progressively, but crises make us look more closely in the mirror. in this sense, the state aid rules and the facility that has been given so that companies can protect themselves against crisis situations, such as the covid-19 crisis and the energy crisis, have allowed more aid to be given. i think this is also a way of defending ourselves against unfair competition from countries like china, and not only the united states: its law on reducing inflation allows an injection of aid money that we cannot match the european union. that is what i was referring to earlier - perhaps i did not explain it well - whether it might be possible to consider adopting, outside of crisis periods, the rules on state aid for sectors in order to allow them to compete on better terms with other countries that have different rules.
executive vice-president of the commission. – well i think there are a different number of ways because situations develop. the geopolitics have changed dramatically over the last five to seven years. of course, things are then accelerating, both with having war in europe, the aggressive, unjustified invasion by russia and the different stance of china, not only within china but also with the many countries on this planet where china is doing business. and a number of things are necessary in order for europe to be more assertive, which we should be, because we have more to offer ourselves and more to offer the world. as of today, i have sent a survey to member states in order to ask if they find that it is necessary to transform our crisis temporary framework to a temporary crisis and transition framework because we might need to help our businesses to bridge a situation where we can offer much more renewable energy at low, affordable prices, because that is basically what they are being offered in other parts of the world. so to ask if we need rules that can accelerate the green transition, the establishment of more renewables, if we need clearer rules as to how to enable decarbonisation of businesses, which is absolutely essential for green transition and for big companies that are very carbon—intensive, and last but not least, what kind of bridging subsidies that can somehow mirror or sort of balance what businesses have been offered in other jurisdictions. i think that is important. and of course, as well as we are doing within the framework of the trade and technology council, to discuss how to create transparency in subsidies. we have done so when it comes to semiconductors in order to avoid a subsidy race between partners, because we see that it is important that europe and the us have a much heavier footprint when it comes to semiconductors, but it should not be at a subsidy race. subsidies are important, but we should not outbid each other when we basically ought to be partners in a quite challenging world.
dear commissioner, for our security we need to prevent chinese companies from investing in our critical infrastructure for strategic purposes. look at the recent investment in the port of hamburg, huawei, 5g or nuctech and the scanners at our airports. it’s all about security. do we really understand that? as europe, we need to close our back door for such chinese strategic investments. my question to the commissioner would be, will the commission propose a european list of strategic sectors so that we have a clear, straightforward path to counter china?
executive vice-president of the commission. – well i’d say that, to a very large degree, the european parliament and council has already done a lot of that work because when we look at the revision of the network and information security directive and also the cybersecurity of entities’ resilience, so the physical security, we are of course trying to align both the physical security and the cybersecurity and the sectors they are quite many. let me see if i can find them because i don’t know them by heart, because there are 11: energy, transport, banking, financial market, infrastructure, health, drinking water, wastewater, digital infrastructure, public administration, space and food. of course, these sectors are very, very different. but for all of them, there is a call to assess the risks, to make sure that you can tell citizens that this is safe, and if risks are found, that they can be mitigated. i think also it’s really important that we have the reporting obligations so that authorities can step in. and if there is a cross-border issue that authorities in another member state can be alerted so that together things can be addressed. this is important because one thing is to prevent, with foreign direct screening tools, new investment that may be critical, dangerous if we find it to be so, but there is already investment within the union where we need member states to enforce these new directives approved by this parliament and the council in order to really make sure that we live up to what i think is an obvious promise to citizens, that important, critical infrastructure is being looked after in the most careful manner.
executive vice-president of the commission. – well, first things first. if there is foreign investment in ports, it’s really important that the ports are still safe. and this is why the implementation of the needs to directive is really, really important and the implementation of the critical infrastructure, critical entities resilience is all being implemented because then you need to make the risk assessment to mitigate the risk, to report on incidents and to do a follow up. and member states need to enforce those directives because no matter if you have partly foreign ownership, of course you still need to do these things to make sure that you cannot be compromised. as support looking at the future. i think it’s really important that we get this assessment of a foreign direct investment up and running. and as said previously, the commission will do its job. we don’t only have to give our opinion if we’re being asked. we can also give our opinion if we hear about an investment that is going to happen. so, as more and more member states get sort of their legislation in place, i think we will be in a better situation. when it comes to ports competitiveness, i think that is a is a difficult question to answer sort of broadly. i think that is a very specific question. one of the things that seems to be really important is how smooth the administration is running with what is a port and welcomes the different ships. one of the things we saw when there was all this sort of clogging in in the global shipping business, we saw that european ports in general were very competitive because they basically work 24/7, which is what you saw caused a lot of delays in in cargo getting off the ships. for instance, in the us. so i think one should not be too defensive with the ports competitiveness in europe, but see too how also the digitisation of them can lift their competitiveness.
executive vice-president of the commission. – unfortunately, i do not know what all my colleagues are doing in detail. this will be my colleague, adina vălean who is responsible for transport who will assess this. so i do not know what her plans are when it comes to an all-port strategy? i think it’s important also to learn from the past because i think basically everyone agreed back in the days that it was a good idea to sell port infrastructure, in particular in greece. that was part of the demands on greece. and i think it must be appreciated that it was done, that the piraeus port is competitive, as long as – and that i find to be really, really important – one can vouch for the fact that it is safe, no matter the ownership, because we cannot roll back history to say, well, we want a change in ownership in every port in europe. we need to make sure that what is now european law – thanks to the european parliament and the european council – is being implemented in full, no matter the ownership. i will, of course bring the idea of a common european port strategy to my colleague. but i do not hope that that in any way will impede for this important risk assessment to be done and for member states to fully implement and enforce the directive passed by the european parliament.
mr president, thank you, commissioner, for the answers you have given so far. sure, you said there were 11 strategic sectors. obviously you cannot answer all of them, but my question was related to what you said: that there must be a risk assessment. now, speaking of the 11 sectors, do you know if there's an impact study? is europe ready to protect all its strategic infrastructure without having china or any other third country as an investor? because it's important to know. yes, we are defending, say, infrastructure and investment from china, but we are able to, we have complete competition on this, we have innovation, we have what we need, technology so that we can't be left with that infrastructure behind other countries, because we are no longer competitive then.
executive vice-president of the commission. – thank you very much also for this question. i think it’s a very good way of putting it. on the one hand, we need to make sure that these essential sectors are safe. at the same time, we need competition for these sectors to keep being innovative. for instance, when it comes to wastewater treatment, i don’t think that we have reached the all-time perfect when it comes to wastewater treatment. i think it’s important that there is continuous competition to drive innovation in this sector. so my point would be to say that we can have both. we can have competition between and within these sectors – well, maybe not so much between, because drinking water and wastewater, you don’t want competition between the two, but that’s another story – no, that you can have secure ownership and that you can have innovation and competition within these sectors. of course, i cannot say if we have every tool in the toolbox that we need, but i think that, thanks to the swiftness of the discussions here in parliament and the council, i think we have reached quite a package that can vouch for different elements when we are looking at this. as i said, we have the nis2 directive that looks at cybersecurity issues when it comes to these essential sectors. we have the critical entities resilience directive that looks at the physical side of infrastructure being safe. we have the foreign direct investment screening that will make sure that it cannot be taken over by foreign investors, if we find that this is not safe. and we have the foreign subsidy regulation that will make sure that we can prevent a takeover if that is subsidised by a foreign state, which makes it so difficult for other potential buyers – some of them maybe european – actually to acquire the assets and make the best of them without any concerns about the security. and i do appreciate your way of asking because that really shows that you need to have a horizontal or a round-the-clock assessment in order to make sure that these sectors serve us well.
commissioner, i wanted to ask you: do you think that investments from china or from another third country, if they meet environmental, social and quality standards, we could accept them, because we have a global economy and it is possible that those investments go to america or elsewhere and we become, let us say, in unequal competition? don't you think that if we impose standards in product quality, environmental, social and so on, we might be able to keep some investments from china and other third countries?
executive vice-president of the commission. – well, i think it’s very important not to judge a book by the cover – otherwise i would read very few books – because the thing is, europe is probably the most preferred jurisdiction for third—country investment. but the important thing is that you should come to europe and invest because you want to do business, not because you want to steal our data or do covert surveillance of people or steal industrial secrets or do just common espionage. you should come with the right intentions. and this is why i find that the screening instrument is so important, so that we are direct and specific and saying, well, this will do, but that will not do. and also that we distinguish between different sectors. and this is why i find that it’s really good that this legislation has been politically agreed; that we say, well, these are many sectors, but these are also essential sectors. and there will be other sectors where investment is welcome. without all these safeguards that have been needed. and i think in the world that we live in, it is important to be specific, to say, well, this is what we want, this is what we don’t want, and make sure that member states, of course, assess that specifically. i think the approach to 5g is a very good example to this. first, we made the common assessment of the risk with 5g. then with member states the commission developed the toolbox. now, every member state is in the process of using that toolbox. from the commission side, we do as much as we can for member states actively to use the toolbox to make sure that when 5g is being deployed, that every member state can tell its citizens this infrastructure is safe: you can enjoy the benefits of 5g without having a risk of being the victim of having data stolen or being exposed to surveillance. so the push of that, of course, is important.
executive vice-president of the commission. – first and foremost, i really appreciate your analysis. i think you’re perfectly right. we are in a situation where russia has weaponised first our energy market and then, basically, winter. obviously, a gazillion times harder on the ukrainians themselves but the rest of europe is taking a toll as well. we have seen the disturbance in the rail industry and trains being disrupted. there are many cyberattacks on europe on a daily basis. no surprise, what i would recommend member states, next to making sure that they fully implements and enforce the legislation passed by this house, is, of course, to cooperate more, to work with each other, to exchange best practices. i would hope that they would also pool resources, that we to a still larger degree could make sure that we help each other out when it comes to cybersecurity. i have a coordinating responsibility for european defence – that, of course, is completely within a nato strategy. but i think here it’s an important consideration to say, well, now when all member states will invest more in defence, that we also do that not just to invest more in the defence capabilities that we had, but also look at what are the kind of threats that we are faced with because they are different threats. we see how this war is so much hybrid on ukraine and we see the fallout also on european member states. so i think the core is still, no matter how trivial it may sound, that europe is stronger when we work together. we have a very long history and there are good reasons as to why security is a national competence. but i think there are efficiencies, there are security to harvest, if we work more together. we have something, for instance, in the nis2 directive that makes member states come together but i do think that we could do still more if member states would want to work together more than they do today.
executive vice-president of the commission. – well as just suggested to one of your colleagues in this house, it’s very important to be quite fast. it was in the last mandate under my colleague julian king, that there was made the risk assessments of 5g and where the toolbox was developed. now, we’re three years into the next commission and not every member state had made full use of the 5g toolbox. i would encourage every member state to speedily do this. i think it’s really important that you can vouch for your 5g network, to tell citizens, and businesses in particular for whom 5g network is absolutely essential for their digitisation, that this is safe. i am absolutely comfortable that eventually they will do that, but i would like that eventually to be tomorrow rather than in months or years time to come. because it’s now we need a safe 5g deployment.
executive vice-president of the commission. – i think it’s i think it’s too early, at least for me, to call on the foreign direct investment screening mechanism not to work. as said, 18 member states have adopted such screening mechanisms, 8 are in the process of doing so. as far as i can count, that doesn’t amount to 27. so we still need to push for this to happen everywhere. i think this is a good tool because it’s a specific tool. so it’s not just a sort of all out ban on investment from a certain source. i really do see what you mean when you start your question by referring to the gas dependence that we had, that we more or less sort of sleepwalked into, because the european business model is, of course built on research, innovation, excellent people, highly skilled workers, high productivity, but also on cheap energy, cheap raw materials and cheap labour in the value chain or the supply chain. and now all of that is changing because we cannot rely on cheap energy because we realise the security risks that come with it, because now they have materialised with the war in europe. and this is why we are really pushing for raw materials diversification. it started already in the last mandate with the raw materials strategy under the leadership of my great colleague maroš šefčovič. now, when you look at how much we are going to need, for instance, lithium, the demand is going to skyrocket in the next 15-20 years. it’s really important that we diversify because it’s not sustainable that lithium is mined, for instance, in chile and then processed in china and then coming back to europe. so we need to find many more ways to go. so we have this raw material alliance. i just recently had a meeting with a canadian minister, mr champagne, who is so eager for europeans to work with the canadians, not only for lithium, but for many raw materials. and i think that is part of the answer.
executive vice-president of the commission. – maybe first a follow-up on the foreign direct screening investment mechanism. there will, of course, be an evaluation. so, of course, the commission will come back to parliament when we have that assessment in due course. on the second question, when you look at the horizon europe provisions, we have an article, i think it’s 22.5, which allows us to close certain calls for entities where we think that there might be a risk. and so far, when you look at emerging technologies, that could be, for instance, quantum, i think no chinese or chinese control directly or indirectly have been part of those calls. the chinese are, i think, world-leading when it comes to quantum. europe is also very far ahead. but because of that, we found that it’s important that funding in specific strategic sectors goes to entities where we know for sure that we can vouch for how they are working with it. so i think that is a good example of how we have a general provision that can be used specifically on different areas where we find that things may be at risk. these are few areas, because the openness of research also increases the level and the resilience of the research community. but there are areas where it is important to say ‘thank you but no thank you’ to entities participating in the calls.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank vice-president vestager for her comprehensive and complete answers to the many questions. my question is added to that of my colleagues to ask you to account for a whole great policy of liberalization and competitiveness that you have represented in the european union in recent years, a policy of a few decades which, however, in the light of the facts and especially in the light of the geopolitical change that has taken place around us and so close to europe, risks showing all its weakness. whole sectors of european industry, i am thinking for example of the shipbuilding industry, have become much weaker and compete in the world with greater difficulty, because of our european regulatory apparatus, which you have so strongly favoured among the member states. this has affected the infrastructure of financial services, such as banks, but also that of industrial mechanical production in the european union. today, this is so fragile that not only can it no longer compete with other actors, but it is even in danger of not being autonomous anymore and of witnessing the invasion of europe by china.
executive vice-president of the commission. – you will excuse me if i don’t give you a direct answer because you focused on a number of different things in your intervention. what we have been building in europe is a social market economy, which means that democratic bodies – national and in particular european – have set a legislative framework as to how things should work; what should be the environmental standards for us to breathe the air, for us to drink the water; how to make sure that when we fight climate change, that our green deal is now a growth strategy. i think that has made europe one of the continents with the best possible living conditions on this planet. at the same time, within this framework democratically set up, businesses have been competing and there are many world—leading businesses right now. unfortunately, we haven’t necessarily provided a single market in all sectors that could give them the strength at home to strongly compete abroad. i think that the digital sector is an obvious one of them. we never provided a digital single market, we didn’t provide a capital market that was sufficiently prone to take risks, to invest for businesses to scale. now, when we enter the next chapter of digitalisation, i think it’s really important that we push for this digital single market to be a reality, for the capital market to be a reality, so that when we enter this chapter of digitalisation, where it’s much more business—to—business, much more deep tech, much more industrial digitalisation, that europe gets to play its full role. of course, that takes a lot of courage, that takes a lot of investment needs to materialise and maybe we can do more to support that. but i think we have prepared the ground while at the same time taking into consideration the concerns of european citizens when it comes to environmental issues, climate change and workers’ protection.
i thank you, mrs vestager, you spoke earlier about the defence industry. well, that's the big test ahead of us. the challenge we face today is to interpret all this economic regulation, of which the green deal is a large part, in such a way as not to weaken our businesses any further, but to strengthen them and to be able to protect and defend our territories, ports, infrastructure, everything that drives our lives, not just economically, for the sake of europe's security and defence. the defense!
executive vice-president of the commission. – well, in particular, the defence industry has a special set of rules around it that to a large degree exempts it from competition rules. member states, of course, are free to buy their equipment, their software where they want to. but actually in common we try to enable the european defence industry. we have now the first calls of the european defence fund, but if you look at the precursor to that, which was a small fund, i think 600 million, it was actually possible for both big and large companies to participate that had a relationship with the defence industry ecosystem, but also for big and small member states to participate. so i definitely think that with that kind of european funding, with the openness when it comes to calls, we can strengthen the entire european defence industry and maybe make it because of that more attractive to member states to do part of their investments, when it comes to ramping up the defence contribution, also to use european equipment. i think there is a strong competition between us and european defence capabilities and that may be so, but what we are doing right now is actually strengthening the european defence industry in good collaboration with member states as far as i have seen it.
executive vice-president of the commission. – no matter how much i want to accept it, there are limits as to what the european commission can do. i think you appreciate that in many other instances. and looking into areas where member states have a very clear responsibility is something that we do not do. i completely agree that it’s important to make sure that what has been passed by this house is not only implemented, but also enforced, because we are in a situation – and one can think about that as one wants to, but we are in a situation – where there is foreign ownership of part of our port infrastructure and that is why it is so important that the legislation that has been passed actually is being actively put into use. which means that if one would have the suspicion that, because there is a minority foreign shareholder in a port, they would kind of fudge or prevent the legislation from being fully implemented, then of course the member state will have to do that, to make sure that the risk assessment is there, that the mitigation is there, that things are being reported. they will have ways to do so. but i think it is really important that because of the legislation, as it has been formulated, that we put the responsibility where it is to be had, which is with member states. of course, if there are issues that are competition-related, it can be for the european commission to look at if there are issues where it is of a different nature. but for security services, of course it is for them to look at. these capabilities are not for the commission.
executive vice-president of the commission. – i think it’s very important to have this very serious approach that you represent. and i think it’s also important to act if one sees something that seems to be not as it should be. i think here – and, as i said earlier on, i will take the idea of having a european port strategy to my colleague who is responsible for ports, adina vălean – it is very important, first things first, we have national authorities, we have national police, we have national intelligence services. they have resources. they have competence. they should do their job. the commission has limited resources and above all, limited competence. so i think we cannot wait for neither – if so be – a european port strategy or more pan-european legislation for european competence on this. we need to make sure that those who have the responsibility also do their job. that is the only fast solution to things that are not as they are supposed to be.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. madam vice-president, i would like to return to your opening remarks on the past. it was the financial crisis of 2009/2010, when conservative parties and many states within the eu called on greece to sell the port, to privatize it. and at the same time, they asked china to support the eurozone countries. today, this is always portrayed as if china were, so to speak, buying all the ports here with cunning and cunning. of course, we have to talk very clearly about the port structure, the critical infrastructure. but i want this infrastructure to remain in the public domain. if there is a need to intervene because of the economic situation in the various member states, then i am interested in ensuring that people are paid a decent wage, that jobs are preserved, that environmental rights, human rights, etc. are respected. so how do we re-engineer aid and competition law in general, in macroeconomic terms, but also in terms of critical infrastructure, so that we can make these investments ourselves?
executive vice-president of the commission. – i wasn’t there. i don’t know if you were there. what i have been told is basically that greece was asked to put the piraeus harbour up for sale, and there were very few potential buyers and that, completely in the open, the chinese bought the harbour. and as far as i know, the greeks are looking at a harbour that is doing quite well. so i think that is an example of the fact that one should be very careful to say that it’s all bad when we have foreign investment. also, when we have foreign investment from china. and anyway, here we are. and that is why it is so important that the rules that this house sets are being lived by. because if there is a risk by foreign ownership of essential infrastructure, then that risk will need to be dealt with. otherwise, we are not safe. when i look at the way we work, i see both public ownership and private ownership being successful and being less successful. for me, what is important is indeed that, whether you have private or public ownership, you live up to the rules governing the infrastructure that you are managing. because that is exactly the point of having essential infrastructure in different kinds of ownership that you must have the willingness to put around it a framework to make sure that that infrastructure is still serving, also, when there is a public interest. and that public interest can be environmental sustainability in broader terms, of course, working conditions, the way that the entire operation is managed. for me, as i said i’m quite neutral on ownership. for me, the results of the processes of how the infrastructure is managed and of course that i keep serving the purpose that it is set there to serve and that we for the future becomes, i think, somewhat more assertive as to who is invited in, because people are invited in for business, but not for undermining our security, that be the physical security of infrastructure or the cybersecurity of our infrastructure.
i'm going to move away from the critical port management, including infrastructure. you also talked about lithium, critical resource partnership, which i think is very important. but even there we must consider how we can ensure that the investments we make there are in our interest and in the interest of those to whom the investments are addressed, and how, in practice, can the recipient of these investments be involved in determining the direction of the investments and the scale of the investments?
executive vice-president of the commission. – i think that is a really crucial point. i think it’s important that one looks at investment in raw materials as we would look at it, if it was investment in raw materials within the union. there are sources of raw material available within the union as well. but the thing is that in the past, the people who were looking at the mine, they didn’t necessarily get the full part of the value added. and that, i think, is really important that if you want to do the mining, well then you need to figure out how to do the processing and maybe also to do part of the production of the raw materials that you source from that specific place. and i think it’s really important that we say, well, if you want things to be done in a good manner, the price will be higher. but we should be willing to pay that price because both we can make sure that we vouch for ourselves when it comes to the labour conditions, the environmental effects, the climate effect, but also we can say that we pay a security premium when we diversify the supply of raw materials. we have raw materials in spain, in sweden, in norway, numerous places within the union, we have developing partnerships with countries outside of the union, canada being an obvious one of them, probably the most european country on this planet. and i think we can do that in a way where we can actually say, this is ok. it is doable these days, in particular if the people doing the mining get a bigger bit of the value added of what they are producing.
thank you, executive vice-president, for tackling this important issue here. i believe the protection of strategic infrastructure cannot just be expected from the executive branch of government. we need an all-of-society effort to deal with the integrated multi-actor activities from the chinese side. in that regard, i think it’s important to raise the awareness of the public. i think the commission should look into opportunities for supporting, for instance, mapping efforts by academia or think tanks that would help to raise awareness. also, i believe that often on the local level there is a lack of china competency. in twinning relationships, small towns of below 100 000 inhabitants are twinned with several million inhabitants in a big chinese metropolis. they could be overwhelmed. so there should be efforts to enhance their china competency to deal with these issues. and finally, the eu cannot impose a european port strategy, but the european union can support efforts by national actors, by regional actors to coordinate. and there we have not been doing what we should be doing.
executive vice-president of the commission. – i think this is a very interesting perspective. i myself have been thinking more about this sort of outside of the european union to make sure that there is a counter—offer to the chinese offer, for instance, when it comes to digital infrastructure. and that counter—offer from our side should be an offer both to invest in infrastructure but also to invest in digital governance in a way that reflects our democratic values. when it comes to within the union, i think it is a fair point both to make sure that more people have the awareness, that media have the expertise to call upon when they want to do articles. i don’t know the state of china research within the union or how that is made available, but i would be more than happy to come back with this because i think awareness is a very important point and also the awareness that nothing comes for free. if you take chinese investment and that is seemingly for free, you should look at what is written with small letters, as you should do with every contract.
just one short additional remark. some member states, like the dutch or the swedish, have invested into creating national china competency centres or different institutions that help creating that competency that we need on all societal levels. and i think it would be helpful if the commission could put some effort into propagating those shining examples.
executive vice-president of the commission. – i completely take the point. my guess – but that is a guesstimate – is that my colleague responsible for research could give you a full mapping of what is going on in europe and what is being supported. i am sure that we can do more, maybe also to connect the different environments and to make them more visible, both to journalists, to press and media, but also to individual citizens. so point taken, and we’d be more than happy to come back to this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the 21 questionnaires very warmly and thank the executive vice-president, mrs vestager, very much for her replies.
the next item is the commission statement on the suspicion of corruption against qatar and the overriding need for transparency and accountability in the institutions (2022/3012 ((rsp)). i would like to welcome to this debate the commissioner, mrs ylva johansson.
yes, that is true. first, did you know that question time is flexible in length? we started question time at 3 p.m. and it is now over after 70 minutes. when this became apparent, we started making phone calls 20 or 25 minutes ago and informed all the groups and speakers. the first speakers, including the commissioner, are here. everyone was informed beforehand. i was wondering if i should interrupt. i was told that it was not necessary because everyone was informed. i therefore call for the debate to begin and ask the commissioner to speak. i assume that all those who have an interest and are on the list of speakers will take their opportunity to follow the debate and come here during the debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, last friday was international anti-corruption day. on this day of all days, belgian authorities carried out searches on several addresses in brussels. as of last evening, 20 searches have been carried out. on suspicion of involvement in organised crime, corruption and money—laundering they filed charges against four people, including one former member of this parliament and a vice-president of the european parliament. the investigations cover a wider network. they confiscated computers, smartphones and over half a million euros in cash. we do not yet know what the results of this investigation will be. but one thing is clear: there must be zero tolerance for corruption. corruption is a very serious crime that undermines our democracy, our economy, our society. i applaud the belgian police and the belgian authorities for the decisive action in this criminal investigation and for showing that prosecution and the law enforcement system work. and i applaud the officials and members of this house who are fully assisting this investigation. and i thank president metsola for your personal support of the investigation, your decisive action, your resolve to meet this test and have the parliament come out stronger. the allegations are extremely serious. the investigations are still ongoing and there is a presumption of innocence. but to anyone accepting payoffs, kickbacks, bribes, i say: shame on you. shame on you for violating trust – the trust of the people of europe who expect you to fight for their interest, not your own, and for violating the trust of your colleagues here in the parliament who work very hard, honourably, truthfully, with decency. the only way we can rebuild trust is to fully support the investigations, for the guilty to be brought to justice and for us to root out corruption anywhere we find it. as president von der leyen said in her state of the union speech three months ago in this chamber, corruption erodes trust. we must fight back with the full force of the law. and that is what we must do every day. our anti-fraud office olaf investigates fraud and corruption in the institutions. the european public prosecutor’s office fights crimes against the eu budget. we have a strong rule—of—law mechanism to help all member states fight corruption, with annual monitoring and reporting, and now also clear recommendations. we set up a general law conditionality mechanism to make sure no money from the eu budget goes into corrupt pockets. we took steps to make sure no cent of covid recovery money ends up in the wrong hands. the fight against corruption is central to our strategy against organised crime and a key target of european police cooperation under empact. as a union, we need to learn the hard lessons and take responsibility, ensuring that we have a better mechanisms and accountability in place, get rid of differences in national laws that obstruct the fight against corruption. that’s why i next year will propose a new law. we must criminalise all forms of corruption in all member states. not just bribery, as is the case today, but also trafficking and influence, illicit enrichment, embezzlement and abuse of power, and to impose tough eu—wide criminal penalties for these crimes. the commission continues to support an eu ethics body for all european institutions – for the parliament, council, for the european court of justice, the ecb, the european court of auditors, and also its advisory bodies the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions – without exception. so we can all live by the same clear principles, live up to the same high standards. president von der leyen sent a letter to these institutions in march, and vice-president jourová is carrying the discussions with our partners forward. let me be clear: the scandal we discuss here today goes well beyond ethics violations. it’s a serious criminal investigation. the parliament’s first response is the right one – to cooperate fully with the law enforcement. but there is anger and frustration in this house and outside. there is understandable outrage and frustration among the millions who believe in the european project, who saw the european unity, helped us through the pandemic and help us now in response to putin’s war. we built trust based on action, and now we must rebuild. the fight against corruption is mission critical for europe, and we must have our own house in order first. our standards should always be the highest. it’s what we expect of others, and we must demand it for ourselves.
thank you very much, commissioner. i thank you for your clarity and for your basic remarks and i would like to emphasize once again that this house has today removed vice-president kaili from her position as vice-president of this house by a single vote against. i now turn to mr jeroen lenaers.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, it’s really hard to express how sad and angry i am here today because the greed of some individuals in this house has cast a dark shadow over all of us. i have to fully agree with the commissioners: shame on them. the news over the past days looked like a bad netflix film. bags of cash raided offices and searched houses. but it’s not the film. it’s the ugly truth of high-level corruption at the heart of the european democracy. of course, investigations are ongoing and we need to wait for all the facts but already i want to thank the belgian authorities, and i would also like to thank our president, roberta metsola, for her leadership on this issue and echo her words. there will be no impunity, none. those responsible must be brought to justice. and we fully support the internal investigation that the president announced. we must do better; increased transparency and accountability of all activities related to third countries, whether through ngos or other actors, and strengthened defensive tools and anti-corruption measures to combat foreign interference in our work. all these steps are necessary to start regaining the trust of our citizens. because make no mistakes, the action of those who would rather take home bags of cash than bags of work undermine the credibility of all of us. and it is up to us together to repair the damage. we can already see the orbáns of this world gloating about these developments, apparently under the impression that corruption elsewhere makes corruption at home less disgusting. nonsense. and let me emphasise one crucial difference: in stark contrast to the impunity in orbán’s hungary, in a rule of law, corrupt individuals are arrested, prosecuted, and stripped of their responsibilities. and we say very clearly here today, no tolerance for corruption, no tolerance for impunity.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament has always worked and will continue to work for democracy, the rule of law and transparency. we have always fought against corruption in all its forms and will continue to do so. but let's face it, we're gonna have to do better than that. corruption destroys institutions, undermines the confidence of citizens and, furthermore, damages the political image. we can't afford that, because we're here to serve the citizenry. i am proud of the house's reaction to the horrible corruption scandal that unfortunately has occurred in this parliament. however, we must make a few points clear: first of all, that those responsible are the people who have broken the law, who have committed very serious crimes, of which they were aware, and the full weight of the law should fall on them. and that's why, as a party concerned, i've already announced that my group will be pardoned in the cause. and in that sense, we have to be clear that the mechanisms of the rule of law have worked, and that is why there is a police investigation underway. our first duty is to facilitate that investigation so that the criminal facts can be known in their entirety. my responsibility as group leader is to immediately stop any action that might result from the actions of these people. and that is why i immediately asked the members of the european parliament concerned by the investigation to resign from any position of responsibility, both in parliament and in the group. and it has been. we're going to take a hard line and we're going to start an internal investigation. from the very beginning we have acted with determination to protect the honour of the socialist group and also that of this parliament. because the criminal behaviour of a few people cannot tarnish the work that the vast majority of members of the european parliament and their collaborators and assistants do every day. we must also set up a committee of inquiry in this parliament, because beyond criminal proceedings we must know what internal mechanisms can be improved so that this situation does not happen again. we want maximum clarity and transparency, but taking into account that the judicial investigation is not over and that the most important thing is that the criminal process progresses and the whole truth is known. from there, in the coming weeks, we must discuss concrete measures: the timetable and mandate of the committee of inquiry, the need to include third countries in the register of lobby transparency or the creation of an independent ethics body. it must be clear to the public: this house is transparent. it's everybody's home. and this unfortunate episode cannot happen again. this must remain an open house for all those who want to contribute to building a united europe, a fairer europe. because our work is worthwhile, because it is worthwhile to die for europe - even in sad days like today - and because it is worthwhile to work for europe, we will stand together on this issue.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, colleagues – shock, disbelief, anger: i believe we all went through the roller coaster last weekend as, bit by bit, we learned about the corruption scandal that took place in our midst. and we are still reeling – or at least that’s the way i feel. we are all devastated to see how the criminal acts of members, former members and staff of the european parliament have deeply damaged the image of this house, and it is our task to restore and even strengthen trust. we have a saying in dutch. trust arrives on foot and leaves on horseback. in other words, it takes a long time to build trust, but it’s broken very rapidly. taking influence on political decision-making is in itself a normal and healthy part of democracy, let us not forget that – as a matter of fact, it is democracy, and meps must be accessible and open to arguments and debate. they must be able to freely and independently be the voice of their constituents and vote in line with their own views and beliefs. but it is a very different matter if actors are trying to get influence with undue pressures or even bribes. and the ugly facts that have emerged are not a mere breach of ethics, colleagues, but criminal acts. and we can fortunately conclude that the criminal justice system works. now let’s use this momentum and revise and strengthen the rules on ethics and transparency nevertheless. there is already a number of proposals on the table, like finally setting up an ethics body with teeth and expanding the transparency register to include third—country representatives, and much more. and we can learn from the best practices from other parliaments. this house, colleagues, must and can become the gold standard for integrity and transparency. and it is our joint cross-party task to restore trust.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think we're all still in shock about what came to light over the weekend. i'll quote my father, who said, "what a fucking shit they pulled off". i think that's a quote that shows how much trust has been broken. the only way to restore confidence is to act now as the european parliament. we must therefore be very clear, also in the resolution we are adopting, on the condemnation of the acts, on the information and on better prevention, and a very clear response to corruption and misconduct is absolutely central to this. we have taken the first step today by removing eva kaili as vice-president of parliament. corruption must have far-reaching consequences. that's it. there is no discussion. secondly, we need full information, a committee of inquiry and, of course, full cooperation with the belgian authorities. because if there is one thing that has been shown, it is that there is a competent and independent prosecutor's office in belgium. thirdly, and i think this is a very important part of this review, there are further measures for better prevention. yes, there are things that even with better transparency rules will not be completely prevented. but it is still important that we now have full transparency, for example by including third countries in the lobby register or an independent ethics committee. some colleagues will now say: no hurry, no actionism. but let me be clear: there are many rules which we as the european parliament have already adopted by a majority in this house, such as the ethics committee. we must now insist that these rules are finally implemented. the debate is not new, it is just very topical. it is important to me that we always take the citizen's view into account when making these decisions. this parliament must rebuild the lost trust and we must work together to do that.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not while many people are having trouble carrying the bare necessities of life in their bags, a group of greedy mps and staff from this house are hauling suitcases full of bribes around the area. this is the image that will remain of this shocking scandal. we still cannot even begin to estimate the scale of this bribery scandal. but to prevent further damage to this institution, we now need maximum awareness, cooperation with the authorities and the consistent implementation and control of the transparency rules of this house. my group therefore calls for the establishment of a committee to deal with this scandal politically. the only thing that matters here is the utmost transparency. because above all this, the question is: is it the usual practice of states and corporations to buy influence over the policies of the european union? this corruption scandal is nothing less than a blow to the credibility of european politics. obviously people have bought political decisions in this house, and obviously there have been mps who have been bought. the scandal has not arisen because there are some bad apples here, ladies and gentlemen, the scandal has arisen because we are dealing with a structural problem. how many lobbyists have had access to the european parliament in the last year, which commissioner has met which lobby group at what times, and how many of the meetings of lobbyists and representatives of third countries with council representatives have actually been published? the debate we are having today can only be the beginning of a long process of enlightenment, which will end with new rules for third countries, an independent ethics committee and maximum transparency in the legislative process. otherwise, this scandal will permanently damage the entire eu.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the scandal of the serious suspicions of corruption from qatar which has engulfed the european parliament is casting a dark shadow over it, undermining the confidence of the citizens in the european institutions and its direct representatives. cooperation with the judiciary is essential at this stage to defend the credibility and honour of parliament, which is the common home of democracy in the union. we all have a duty to facilitate the establishment of the truth and of any responsibility, and i thank president metsola for the measures taken so far. we must be firm in our reaction against any attempt to corrupt, commit any illegal act, interfere with or attack the democratic and decision-making process. as the five star movement we have shared the desire to postpone work and votes on the visa exemption for citizens from qatar and kuwait and, more generally, we are calling for the obligation to record, for the sake of greater transparency, meetings between meps and lobbyists and foreign diplomats to be made compulsory. we have no tolerance for those who threaten european democracy, the integrity of the institutions and the credibility of its representatives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, trust in our parliament’s integrity and the rule of law are paramount for the functioning of european democracy. the european parliament must conduct a policy of zero tolerance towards corruption. for this reason, i am appalled that four people closely connected to the european parliament, including one of its vice presidents, were arrested by the belgian authorities on suspicions of money laundering, corruption and participating in a criminal organisation. i very much welcome president roberta metsola’s leadership, her words yesterday, here in this hemicycle. i welcome her initiative to launch an internal investigation and a wide-ranging reform process. in order to increase transparency and to fight corruption, it is important that we now draw the right conclusions. colleagues, the european parliament cannot assume the role of a court and does not intend to prejudice ongoing investigations. yet i congratulate the relevant belgian and further european authorities on 14 further criminal actions through their work. parliament should fully support the ongoing criminal investigation. for any foreign actor proven guilty in this ongoing case, there must also be swift and dissuasive consequences. the european parliament needs to strengthen our anti-corruption mechanisms as well as defensive tools to combat foreign interference. let me fully underline what colleagues have said. for time reasons, let me just add one additional point. in this case, a non-governmental organisation was allegedly used, or – to be more precise – misused as a vector of foreign interference in our political work. therefore, we should also have a look at existing regulations in order to increase transparency and accountability of organisations and other actors.
mr president, commissioner, this week the european parliament has been featured in the media all over the world, but unfortunately not because of the many positive actions we are taking here for our citizens. third countries are allegedly buying the will of meps and parliamentary assistants in an illegal and illegitimate way, which is not only a frontal attack on this institution but also on the democratic values that inspire it. but democracy and the rule of law are much stronger than some people think. to the corrupt, both those who have corrupted and those who have been corrupted, i say one thing to you: you will all be caught and you will pay for it, sooner or later. because the rule of law works here, and a few bad apples aren't going to rot the rest. what is certain is that it is now our responsibility - and it will not be easy - to return this parliament and its reputation to the place they deserve. whatever it takes.
mr president, the shadow of corruption is casting a shadow over the reputation of this parliament today. but this threat is not new: we already suspected that certain autocratic regimes might be trying to influence the work of this house by illicit means. i personally denounced it in 2017 through an amendment passed by this house, which also called for, and i quote, 'strong measures to prevent such corruption from occurring that would undermine the credibility and legitimacy of the work of the parliament'. but we didn't do anything. and now the suspicions have turned into criminal charges. i hope that we will now take concrete action, such as setting up a genuine independent ethics committee with real powers, knowing that, even if we set ourselves the strictest standards, in the end, whether there is corruption or not depends on our sense of democratic responsibility and our ethics. against corruption, there are no excuses. we have to start by questioning ourselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, qatargate, which involves ngos, trade unions, individuals, assistants and members of the european parliament, is the most serious political attack on european democracy by autocratic third countries since the institutions of the european union have existed. we are asking first of all for a strong criticism of qatar and the enemies of democracy who are threatening us directly from outside, as we already had the opportunity to write in a parliamentary question presented two years ago by our colleague ceccardi. but we intend to stand together as a fundamental process for the production of the antibodies that defend our society, whose freedom and democracy are so vital to maintaining full respect for the presumption of innocence. the rule of law, which we all believe in. today we might speculate against some of us, but we also regret that we have been excluded from the democratic process of this parliament and from playing the valuable role of constructive opposition which any democratic majority needs. in the self-referentiality that often distinguishes some of you, you called us the cordon sanitaire, but it was a tragic mistake. nevertheless, in the face of this disaster, i repeat to you, we stand united in defence of the european institutions and the european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we were told that corruption is neither right-wing nor left-wing. i personally agree with this assumption, but i wonder if my colleagues on the left agree with it. i'm afraid not, because we've heard them for years telling the tale of their moral superiority. this false and hypocritical narrative was echoed last night in speeches by some of the group's leaders. you see, the most revolting aspect of this scandal is in the words of those who, a month ago, here in this room, portrayed the doha regime as a champion of human rights and progress, not only for reasons that we now understand a little better, but also because the left considers itself to be in a position to determine who is on the right side of history and who is not. it has even been said that we in the west have much to learn from qatar in terms of freedom and rights. this perverse and pervasive ideology is the best ally of corruption and repression. there is a question we should be asking, not just in this house: why does an islamic regime decide to pay some meps and invest so much money in the world's most popular sport? he's not looking for a financial return, he's buying our culture and our way of life. everyone knows it, but few object.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what a grave and profound shame is this house today! how many billions of euros does this building cost? how much does it cost per citizen? how many billions of euros are we worth? and how many billions of dreams, wishes and hopes for a better life do the citizens of europe entrust to this parliament? those billions of dreams have been betrayed, the pact of trust with the citizens has been soiled. we saw bags of money in the homes of colleagues, former colleagues, trade unionists, representatives of ngos. it was like the kind of kidnapping that happens to drug dealers and mobsters. heaps of cash. shame on you! it is a terrible day and i ask all of you, from president metsola on down, to react strongly but not just with words, with deeds! we need a law to eradicate corruption in europe too, we need very strict rules, we need to punish the guilty ones today, but we also need to create conditions so that no one can steal the future of european citizens, their trust and their money in this way. we must throw out of this building the corrupt, the corrupters and the very possibility of corrupting in the future, otherwise this parliament will have no reason to exist.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the serious cases of corruption which have recently come to light against members and officials of this parliament rightly arouse indignation and dismay in all of us. i have personally argued for some time that the existing rules on transparency and lobbying are totally inadequate to prevent or limit the risks of corruption, but this is not limited to parliament alone, but certainly also concerns the european commission. it is well known that the president of the commission is also under investigation by the european public prosecutor's office for the way in which the joint purchase of covid vaccines was managed, but i have not heard a single word of indignation, no one has called for her resignation in this house. why would you do that? tell me, do we think that giants like pfizer or the digital or defense lobbies have less strength and impudence than qatar in influencing the decisions of the european union to their advantage? we need strict rules on lobbying everything and we owe it to the citizens to have a commission of inquiry into these facts too, not just about qatar.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all need a spirit and a mentality of normalization, made up of many small steps towards building, towards building peace. what is needed are those simple human dispositions that are already expressed in the abrahamic covenants: to build peace, not destroy it as iran or qatar do by arming terrorism; promoting coexistence, human dignity, freedom, cooperation, tolerance and respect; support science, art, medicine, commerce and finally end radicalization. that's what it takes. i have complete confidence in israel's ability to build peace between peoples and i no longer see the so-called 'israeli-palestinian question' as a challenge to international policy. and if the union is to play an important role in mediating between palestinians and israelis, perhaps it should start by suggesting to president abbas not to spread disinformation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i and some of our colleagues are now experts in this part of the world. i am a member of the delegation for relations with iraq, i was on the election observation mission and we know the complexity of a difficult area. we all expressed our solidarity with the attacks that also hit istanbul, i̇stiklal caddesi, but nothing justifies what turkey is doing. it's not just in the last few weeks, it's not just in the wake of certain attacks, and it's creating consequences for the complexity of local populations and a displacement of populations that makes those balances even more difficult, not just to maintain but to restore. other colleagues have already said this, the extremists are taking advantage of the situation, the pro-turkish militias of ahrar al-sham are destroying infrastructure and agriculture and there is an impact on minorities, the christian minority but not only that, we have rightly spoken also about the kurds, who feel threatened. isis, in all this context, can re-emerge and do so in a serious way, with consequences, as we have all said, also on the departure of refugees to europe. attention also to erdoğan's plan to send two million refugees to that area, who are now in turkey but who come from other parts of syria, which would create a further shock to an area that, instead, deserves a different attention. europe can choose to be present in that sector, where my country is currently leading the nato contingent and my government is expressing solidarity both with the kurdish region of iraq and with the new government in baghdad, but we must realise that those populations have suffered for decades and we must intervene as soon as possible if we are to be seen as bearing positive values.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the debate today testifies to our continued interest and engagement in eu—asean relations, and the upcoming summit is a historic event. it is the result of years of work, a new commitment to further strengthening relations with this important multilateral partner. i would encourage you to continue to support these efforts through outreach and cooperation with your counterparts and asean parliamentarians and the asean interparliamentary assembly. with regard to the global gateway, we will announce substantial advancements in global gateway projects with asean tomorrow on the fringes of the summit, all from the current financial perspective and all involving public funds from eu and member state development banks. on the national unity government, we are reaching out to the national unity government at an increasingly higher level. they are vital stakeholders in myanmar’s future, and we welcome the decision of asean’s own summit in november to officially engage with them as well. the eu is a significant humanitarian donor in myanmar, but it is true the united nations humanitarian appeal is very under—funded. we also continue to help the 1 million rohingya refugees in bangladesh. with regard to the summit and region to region relations, we agreed on substantial language on the indo-pacific and south china sea, and we would be happy to cooperate more strongly with asean within the un, notably with malaysia and indonesia, which are currently members of the human rights council.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at a later part-session. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the past year has brought new and very serious challenges to europe and the world. the unprovoked russian aggression against ukraine has triggered a wave of negative political, economic and security consequences, both in the traditional sense and in the energy sense. in this context, it is all the more important to strengthen cooperation and alliances between europe and asean countries. the eu is asean's third largest trading partner and second largest direct investor. the situation will continue to improve thanks to very comprehensive bilateral agreements with the eu. the region's sea lanes are key water transport corridors and that is why it is so important to commit to guaranteeing freedom of navigation. we should also strengthen people-to-people contacts, including university-to-university programmes and exchanges of researchers, students and young people. the role of the region for europe is already enormous and will grow with each passing year. let's not waste this opportunity.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
madam president, this report has given us a comprehensive view of the problems faced by people with disabilities in the european union. these are not just environmental barriers, but also barriers to employment, education and healthcare. and even though we are bound by the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, change is very slow. i welcome the fact that the report included a call for the adoption of a european disability card as soon as possible. this card will facilitate mobility within the european union and thus allow these persons access to travel, sport or leisure activities. at the same time, a key aspect of it is the recognition of the status of a person with a disability across all member states. many disabilities are not immediately apparent and automatic, and recognition of status will make life easier for many. i therefore call for the card to be accepted as soon as possible and to the widest extent possible.
madam president, i welcomed the report on the long-term challenges for rural areas in the european union, as up to 30% of the european population live in these areas and we need to address the living conditions and satisfaction of these people. rural areas face a lack of access to basic infrastructure, education and jobs, and an ageing population and an influx of people into cities. it is these aspects that i have long emphasised and called for the creation of sufficient connectivity in rural and more remote regions, including high-speed internet and digital tools, so that people in these areas do not have to move for work, have the possibility to work remotely and thus avoid depopulation. i also believe that support for farmers is necessary, which is not only important for rural areas but also for our food security.
the explanations of vote were then tabled.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, wednesday, december 14, 2022, at 9:00 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval tomorrow after the vote.
good morning, everyone. in relation to the decision by the libe committee to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) on the european union drugs agency file announced at the opening of the session on monday 12 december, i have received no request for a vote from members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold. the committee may therefore start the negotiations.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the preparation of the european council meeting of 15 december 2022 (2022/2943(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, madam president of the european commission, honourable members, tomorrow, leaders will meet in brussels for the december european council following a gathering today for the first commemorative eu—asean summit. this is planned as a one—day european council starting on thursday morning with the usual exchange with the european parliament president metsola. leaders are expected to discuss the energy crisis and its consequences on households and the economy and russia’s escalating war of aggression against ukraine. they will also discuss security and defence and are expected to have strategic discussions on southern neighbourhood and on transatlantic relations. russia is using winter as a weapon. the situation is serious in ukraine, where russia’s ongoing campaign of systematic missile strikes against civilian targets, including energy infrastructure and utilities, inflicts terrible suffering on the ukrainian people. leaders will condemn these strikes as a crime for which there can be no impunity. and i expect it to call on russia to immediately stop endangering the safety and security of civilian nuclear facilities. leaders are also expected to call for the provision of humanitarian and civil protection assistance to ukraine to be intensified and for assistance in restoring ukraine’s critical infrastructure to help the country get through the winter, following up also on yesterday’s special conference in paris. this includes stepping up our support for ukraine’s most urgent infrastructure needs, as well as working with the private sector to provide a sustainable supply of priority equipment to ukraine. we also remain committed to providing political and military support to ukraine. the european peace facility, as well as the newly launched eu military assistance mission, are key tools in this respect. ukraine’s financial relief, resilience and long—term reconstruction will further be addressed by leaders. i would like to thank the european parliament for your support and efforts to reach a timely solution on the mfa+ assistance file. leaders are also expected to speak about how to further increase collective pressure on russia to end its war of aggression and to withdraw its troops from ukraine. they will welcome the reinforcement of the eu’s restrictive measures, including through the oil price cap. the aim is to have the new sanction package formally adopted ahead of the european council, likely via a written procedure. on energy and economy, the european council will review progress in the implementation of its october conclusions. steep energy prices touch all european citizens and businesses, and the issue has been very high on the agenda of the czech presidency of the council. leaders will continue to work on a coordinated approach to weather this crisis and minimise the social and economic fallout. they will discuss the impact of high energy prices and global developments on our industrial fabric and consider what should be done to maintain our global competitiveness and develop our technological leadership in the green transition whilst preserving the global level playing field. leaders will also take stock of progress on the latest energy measures proposed by the commission and address the next steps. we need to make sure we continue to deal with the most immediate aspects of the current energy crisis, but also prepare for next winter and develop together a resilient system for the coming years. we must phase out our dependency on russian energy exports, accelerate the green transition and ensure security of supply, which will require stepping up investment in infrastructure and interconnections, innovation, renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. turning to security and defence, leaders will follow up on their discussions in march and may, taking stock and providing further guidance on the implementation of the strategic compass and the versailles declaration. the eu is taking more responsibility for its own security and its capacity to act autonomously in defence matters. this includes strengthening the european defence and industrial base. of course, the transatlantic bond, as reflected in the eu strategic compass and nato’s strategic concept, remains key. the european council is expected to call on the council and the european parliament to swiftly adopt the european defence industry reinforcement through common procurement act. the council already adopted its position in early december under the lead of the czech presidency. regarding the eu’s commitment to work with partners on security and defence, the european council should underline the importance of instruments such as the european peace facility and is expected to welcome the agreement of the council to increase epf’s overall financial ceiling by two billion into 2023. the european council will hold a strategic discussion on relations with the southern neighbourhood. leaders are also expected to have a strategic discussion on transatlantic relations. on 6 december, the western balkans summit took place in tirana. eu leaders and western balkans partners reconfirmed our strategic partnership. the tirana declaration reaffirms the eu’s unequivocal support for the eu perspective of the western balkans. yesterday, the council adopted conclusions on the enlargement process, which the european council is expected to endorse. as you can see, a very rich agenda.
president of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, it’s exactly three years ago that i stood here in front of parliament presenting the european green deal. europe was the first continent to set out a path towards climate neutrality. other countries had pledges. we had a plan. back then, we were concerned for our industry because of the unfair competition from heavy polluters. today, only three years later, the competition we face has radically changed. a global green tech race has started. that is what we wanted. that is what we need. because only when the most advanced economies compete for a net zero future will we reach our common goals: to limit global warming and to protect our children’s future. but this new competition environment also calls for a rethink on our side as to how we support our industry’s green transition and strengthen its global leadership. that is what we will discuss tomorrow at the european council and it is what i would like to focus on today. let me first look at the challenging situation our companies are facing today. global gas supply remains tight because of russia’s war of aggression. russia has cut 80% of its pipeline gas supply to the european union in the last eight months. but we have been able to compensate. we have diversified. we’re saving energy. we have boosted the rollout of renewables. we’re skimming off the super profits of energy-producing companies to take the money to support vulnerable households and vulnerable businesses. we agreed to buy gas together and we put forward a market correction mechanism to limit the spikes in gas prices. our stores are filled. so we are, as a result, safe for the winter. i think we can be very proud of what we have achieved despite the russian blackmail. and i would like to take the opportunity to thank the czech presidency for what you have achieved in the last six months. this is great and thank you very much for that. yes, indeed, you deserve applause. yet all this work we have done comes at a cost. cheap supplies of russian energy were part of the business model of many european industries. that model has been shattered by russia’s attack on ukraine and the inconvenient truth is that that model will not come back. the international energy agency has just reminded us that, in the absence of russian gas, europe now faces structurally higher fossil fuel import prices. so the only sustainable way for our smes and our industries is the transition to renewable energy. renewable energy is not only affordable, but it’s, of course, also home-grown and it creates good jobs here in europe. but this transition will not happen overnight and global competition is getting tougher. just look at the united states. they have recently approved a significant investment plan which also sets standards for green tech sectors, the so-called inflation reduction act. and let us be very clear. first of all, supporting the clean transition is the right thing to do – if you do it right, in a transparent manner, in a spirit of cooperation and in a way that ensures a level playing field. so it should be a race against time and not a race against each other. it should be a race to the top and not a race to the bottom. yet there is a risk that the inflation reduction act can lead to unfair competition, and three aspects are particularly worrisome. first of all: the ‘buy american’ logic that underpins large parts of the inflation reduction act. second: the tax breaks that could lead to discrimination. and third: the production subsidies that could disadvantage european companies. we need to address these issues. we need to give our answer, our european inflation reduction act, and i see four main strands of action. first of all, we have to adjust our own rules to facilitate national public investment in the transition. second, we have to reassess the need for further european public investment in the transition. third point: we have to work with the united states to address some of the most concerning aspects of this law. and of course, the fourth topic is that we have to further accelerate our transition to green energy. so to my first point. we need to nurture the future generation of industrial production, our own green tech industrial base – this we have to strengthen. and we need to make sure that investment aid and tax credits reach the concerned sectors more easily and faster. this is why we will, in january, put forward a new framework to accelerate the transition. it will make our state aid rules simpler and faster for the years to come. and it will close the existing gap to target the whole value chain of strategic green sectors, including large-scale deployment and access to raw materials. this new framework will, for example, allow member states to take into account global conditions – not only european – when providing aid for certain green tech manufacturing products. that means that for some greenfield investments, member states can match the subsidies of third countries, and this will give an incentive to companies to continue to invest in the european union – not to invest in the united states, but to be here, to stay here and to invest in the european union. at the same time, we have to protect our single market from fragmentation and uncoordinated responses – our unity as a single market of 27. and we all know that not all member states have the same capacity for large-scale investments in strategic sectors. the famous deep pockets: they are not everywhere. and this leads me to my second point. we need a fair green transition in all of europe. so to foster green tech across europe, we need complementary european funding. and here repowereu is our tool. repowereu is the vehicle that supports smes and industries while they transition towards cheaper and cleaner energy. and in this context, i really want to congratulate you and i am very glad that repowereu was adopted this morning – late last night – and it enters into force at the beginning of next year. this is a big step forward. many, many thanks for that. this is an enormous achievement here in parliament. it’s good that we have repowereu now. i think, at the same time, the need for acceleration for renewables will also require a boost of repowereu so that we can properly address the new circumstances that have been created through the inflation reduction act. this is in the short term. in the medium term, however, i think we need a more structural solution because we want european industry to keep leading in the green transition. this is why i introduced the idea of a sovereignty fund. and i think the upcoming mid-term review of the mff around summer will be a good opportunity to put forward our proposal in more detail. the idea behind it is very simple. europe is a continent full of strength. our single market is unique. we have the largest single market worldwide. we have a highly skilled workforce. we have world-class universities. we have a tightly woven network of renowned research institutions. but we also need to galvanise our strong european industrial power in the global fight against climate change. and that calls for a common european industrial policy with common european funding. i am speaking of beefing up the resources available for upstream research, innovation and strategic projects at eu level – just think of hydrogen, semiconductors, quantum computing, ai, biotechnologies. that’s where we have to make the investments now. and for the first time we will also bring european funding to our successful important projects of common european interest, the ipceis. these are strategic investments to maintain our global leadership in the green tech sector. my third point: we are working very closely with the biden administration on the most concerning aspects of the inflation reduction act, and we are discussing how to jointly strengthen our clean energy and industry basis. we need to make sure in these discussions that our respective incentive programmes will reinforce each other and that they do not come at the expense of each other. think, for example, of the topic of critical raw materials that are needed for green tech. today – and we know all this – the production and processing of some of the most urgently needed critical raw materials are controlled by one single country, and that country is china. so we share the us concern about this strategic vulnerability that we have. and one of the possible solutions to overcome this monopoly that china has, without any doubt, would be, for example, to create a raw materials club with the united states and with other partners, with the aim of having reliability, transparency, fair conditions and value that stays in the country where these raw materials are being extracted. and we stand ready to work on all this hard-to-achieve joining of forces and to strengthen our industrial basis. finally, let us recall: all these actions serve as a bridge. it is the bridge for our clean tech industry to transform from today’s costly fossil fuel energy into clean energy and affordable energy – the renewables. we need, therefore, this investment now – because these industries and our smes need the support now – until we have achieved an energy environment again that is affordable, that is clean and that is secure. honourable members, let us never forget the bigger picture. a war is raging at the borders of our union. russia is escalating its attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure, and the brave people of ukraine need all our help. therefore, it is not the time for a trade war with our closest partners and allies. this is a time for our democracies to join forces even more to stand up for ukraine. i am very glad that we have agreed now on the next round of our eur 18 billion financial package, which will reach ukraine in early january. putin’s war of aggression will fail, mainly for two reasons. the first one is, of course, the enormous bravery and the enormous courage of the ukrainian people. but the second reason is the international community’s remarkable unity. and therefore, let us stay strong. let us stand up for ukraine. let us be united. slava ukraini! merry christmas and long live europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, madam president of the commission, mr bek, dear colleagues, today’s subject is the preparation of the european council. but before we go into this, as an institution, we are all still in shock about the corruption cases. yesterday, we voted nearly unanimously that vice—president kaili cannot speak any more on behalf of the institution. that is how we show that we are ready to act; we will protect our institution. 99% of our colleagues here in this institution want to continue to work hard for the european citizens. we want to clean the table and we want to reform our working methods, and we will bring this to life in the upcoming weeks and months. on the other hand, we must do our job, and that is what we are doing today; it’s the preparation of the council. the european parliament was fighting hard for one fundamental idea, and that was the idea of conditionality when it comes to the funding of the european union. the rule of law mechanism is our baby – it’s parliament’s baby. we achieved this. yesterday, when the council for the first time agreed to block and to freeze money to hungary, was a historic moment. we will, for the first time, use money as a tool to insist that rule of law must be implemented in the european union. viktor orbán will face problems now; that’s obvious, and that is good. i want to underline this because, first of all, institutions on a european level are on the same page. we are united, and the european parliament did it. we can be proud of this, and we will continue to fight for values. i want to mention today an international perspective. on 13 september, 22—year—old mahsa amini was arrested by the iranian morality police for improperly wearing her headscarf. three days later she died. on 17 november, the 23—year—old majidreza rahnavard was arrested. on monday, he was hanged from a crane in the city of mashhad. 14 young people have died now in the last weeks in iran. their only fault is their desire for freedom. this is the iranian reality. we condemn the brutal killing of all these young people and all the people who fight for freedom, and here in the european parliament we must show our support. we can consider, madam president, that probably for the january plenary, we should also invite representatives from the iranian opposition to this house to support them. when we look inside the european union, then it is about competitiveness, it’s about jobs, it’s about perspectives for our business, and we welcome this dimension. we support the ideas presented today by the commission president on the ira. that is a good answer. we don’t need a war, a trade war, with our american friends. we need our solid answer with a position of strength, not being naive, but being strong. we have to strengthen our single market. for example, in the telecom sector, there is still a lot to do, and we need the main message of how can we strengthen competitiveness. there we are looking forward to the arrival of the swedish presidency. i also want to mention the defence sector again, because our countries are now spending hundreds of billions of euros to buy weapons, and it is good that we are investing in our defence capacity in europe. but poland is buying tanks in south america and south korea, and germany is buying air fighters in the us. a lot of jobs are being created now, but outside of the european union, because we are lacking a single market on the defence industry inside of the european union, and i don’t see initiatives on this. i don’t see engagement on this. i have already mentioned this several times in this place. we have to speed up to build up a european defence pillar, as well as a cyber—defence brigade, a real european defence pillar inside of nato. for the european council, migration linked to schengen is also an issue to be discussed. since 2015, we have been discussing migration, and i want to applaud and thank the czech presidency for all they did to achieve a solid position for the negotiations with parliament on the migration pact. this is a big achievement. thank you so much for this. the urgency is obvious: 280 000 illegal migrants arrived this year in the european union. the reception centres are again full. that’s why we have to speed up on this legislation, and we have to finalise it in the upcoming months. the schengen enlargement must also be an issue in this regard. the veto from austria and from the netherlands was wrong and was not fact-based, and that’s why i hope that this will also return to the negotiation table in brussels tomorrow and on friday. we need fairness: romanians and bulgarians deserve the same treatment that all the other europeans have. that’s why the enlargement must come. finally, on the energy side. madam president, you know that i have insisted several times here as to why you used article 122 for doing the energy proposals. for our legislation where parliament is involved, the repowereu, we finalised now, the legislation, and for the gas cap and for other proposals you made in an urgency procedure, we are still lacking any kind of progress. we see no progress at all on the council side. that’s why, next time, please involve the european parliament again in the place where the democratic decisions must take place. so that is my first message. on content, the council must speed up. the council must now deliver on the gas cap decisions. putin is responsible for the high price, but we could much better answer this threat from the russian side if we were united. that’s why mr bek and prime minister fiala, good luck for the negotiations to solve this last problem. thank you so much. i wish you good luck for the council and, for all of us, a peaceful christmas.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the eve of the last council of the year, with such a range of challenges on the table that we must be quick, tenacious and decisive in our decision-making. the credibility of our european project requires that not even a shred of doubt can undermine the citizens' confidence in their institutions. because we must continue to be a model for the citizens of the union and also a reference in the world, as we are doing with the sakharov prize. we must be a credible and honest model in all our actions, including at institutional level and in the socioeconomic dimension. i'll start with the last one. i have referred on several occasions to the urgency of tackling the exorbitant prices on the energy market caused by putin's war. the commission has presented a number of measures so urgently that, by applying article 122, parliament has been excluded from its negotiations. the commission's proposal to limit the price of gas on the market is ridiculous. if the normal legislative procedure had been followed, parliament would have been able to propose realistic and effective limits. ladies and gentlemen, as i said, if this parliament acted quickly with the covid-19 vaccines, are we not going to do so now to be able to deal with this energy crisis? the fact is that the urgency of action is pressing us in a galloping social and economic crisis. we can't wait any longer. the absence of ambitious social measures in the legislative package for the years 20232024 is exasperating. that is why, from the socialist and democratic group, we have proposed a european energy bond, identifying more than 100 billion euros in the european budget that can be used to help families urgently and immediately. but let us be clear that we will also need a european response to deal with the crisis next year. as regards the institutional framework, there are two essential issues for my group: schengen and the conditionality of the rule of law. on the first point, i welcome the inclusion of croatia in the schengen area. it's a good thing. but it is a mistake not to do so with romania and bulgaria. a mistake and an injustice. this injustice arouses suspicion and is a target for anti-european movements. my group has proposed a debate on this question. ladies and gentlemen, how can we have a debate on the enlargement of the european union and at the same time fail to include in the free and common area those member states which meet the requirements to be part of it? what will the commission do to correct this injustice? we are all in favour of this. and finally, with regard to the conditionality of the rule of law, it has of course been a victory for those of us who defend the rule of law and the common values of the union that the conditionality mechanism can be applied and that funds can be raised, reduced and frozen to those countries - in this case hungary - when they are not complying with the rule of law. but let us also reflect on something: what orbán is doing today, proposing blackmail in the council, cannot be allowed. and that should make us reflect on the need to do away with the principle of unanimity in the council. the institutions and the framework we have been building are our common heritage. the confidence of the citizens in them is the guarantee that we can continue to build this common project of peace, freedom and well-being. and we must preserve it. to return to the beginning of my speech: in the face of any attack that undermines citizens' trust in the european union - whether by attacking our rule of law or the values of our union - and in the face of any case of corruption, firmness and zero tolerance. i hope that next year we will be able to use the same energy to tackle all the work ahead of us.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, good morning, everyone, this time i think i’m going to speak english because i want first to thank mr bek and congratulate the czech presidency. it’s the second time that your country is leading the work of the european union for six months, and i must say that you have already brought quite a number of important pieces of legislation across the line and also helped not solving – because it is not solved – but at least moving forward on the conundrum posed by the hungarian government because indeed, a few weeks ago, i was afraid that indeed the council would succumb to the blackmail of viktor orbán and this was not the case. actually, in a subtle way, you reminded viktor orbán that we can circumvent his vetoes. of course we didn’t have to go there, but the threat was enough for him to basically bow, and indeed the funds put on hold have been reduced, but not by a significant margin. je voudrais juste dire à stéphane séjourné, qui a un art consommé de tirer la couverture à soi, que dans l’affaire hongroise, le président macron n’était pas du côté de la rigueur; il était de ceux qui voulaient lâcher la bride à viktor orban. je pense qu’il faut aussi mettre au jour ce double langage. now i’d like to focus a bit on what you said, madam president, because there’s a lot i agree with on what you say, starting with the point that no, we greens do not dream of a continental european union deprived of industry. i’m an engineer by training. i think industry is a key part of our economy. but then again, everything will be in the execution, and in the details. because what i hear from industry often times is ‘not too much pressure please! not too much pressure and please, a lot of subsidies’. why is that? well because to be honest, when i look especially at large european companies, i see that we have moved from a capitalism of entrepreneurs to a capitalism of rent seekers, and they prefer to channel profits into bonus and dividends rather than into productive investment because these will generate profits down the line. this is why we are saying, in order for european industry to lead the transition, we need to put them under pressure, and that’s the targets that we adopt, that’s the whole fit for 55 package. we need serious pressure and that includes on the nature protection package because if you want innovation, you need pressure. then, if support is needed, i would just take up what you have said about support to the citizens with high energy bills – support must be targeted, targeted to the companies who really need it, who really need public support to bridge the transition because, yes, transition is difficult and requires investment. but, quite frankly, we have deep pockets in some member states. we have very deep pockets in some corporations as well, and they don’t need an inch, a cent of support. so that’s what i would urge you, is to find the right balance. but all in all, when i look at the architecture, your four points, i think that we can agree with that. so with that, i wish you also a good christmas recess and look forward to continue working with you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. in the winter of 2020, over 35 million european women in the eu could not pay for their electricity or heating, and this winter, many millions more will be unable to do so. unfortunately, the heads of state and government are still arguing about how to take really effective measures, what measures can be taken to help people in this existential crisis for many months. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the white paper on growth and employment. because in particular - and this is a criticism directed primarily at the german federal government - national governments have been on the brakes for months, taking one egotrip after another. in the face of inflation and the associated crisis of living standards, many people are faced every day with the question of whether they can afford to heat, light or buy food. in this massive social crisis, european politics is once again proving too indecisive, too hesitant and not decisive enough. i would therefore urge the member states, mr bek, to take up the proposal of the european commission and to consider and adopt a large-scale joint european investment programme which could pave the way out of the crisis. we are approaching the end of the year, so i would like to pay tribute to you: despite the political differences we usually have, mrs von der leyen, i think the idea of a european sovereignty fund is right. i think the time is right for that, especially in response to the biden administration's inflation reduction act. however, it doesn't help and that's where my praise ends to stop halfway. we must also think about a thorough reform of the internal market. we must then think about how to make investment in public services possible, how to reform the rules on debt so that these investments are actually possible. and we have to think about how to actually generate own resources, for example in the form of a european financial transaction tax. one of the reasons for the massive price increase is russia's war of aggression against ukraine. this war has been going on for ten months now. the civilian population is suffering from the criminal attacks of the russian army on civilian infrastructure. cold, darkness, hunger become weapons, especially against children, the elderly and the sick. this miserable war must finally be brought to an end, and for that a consistent diplomatic offensive by the european union is also needed. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the withdrawal of russian troops from ukraine must be followed by the lifting of sanctions. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the peace process is not blocked by the military dictatorship, but that it is not blocked by the military dictatorship. and no, ladies and gentlemen, calling for peace talks and diplomacy is not taking sides with putin and his criminal war of aggression. the corruption scandal has shaken the european institutions to their core. it is nothing less than a blow to the credibility of european politics. now you too, mr bek, must ensure that the european council's transparency rules are strengthened, because they are even more opaque than those of the european parliament. i am not going to go into detail. it is a little early to wish you a restful holiday - at least from my protestant communist ethic - but when the time comes, i wish you a restful holiday too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciated what you said, mr von der leyen, and i acknowledge the efforts made, and above all i agree with your statement that the only way to tackle the energy crisis is to accelerate the transition to renewable energy. however, we cannot hide behind the fact that today in europe there are 95 million people at risk of poverty, also because of the energy crisis, and for them the increase in the price of gas does not mean lowering the thermostat, but choosing whether to eat or to warm up, and that is why i believe that our delay in fixing a price for the gas ceiling is really unjustifiable and the next european council must reach an agreement. i would like to remind you that at the beginning of 2021, methane cost 16 euros per megawatt hour and this was the value decided by the market, at which all suppliers were well prepared to supply europe, not only gazprom. last june there was talk of a price of around 90 euros, so i do not understand how the commission thought it was acceptable to propose a threshold of 2.75 and even the 225 now proposed by the czech presidency are too high and render the measure de facto useless and unenforceable. the eu must represent all citizens, especially those who cannot afford to heat themselves. you have to ask for a roof for them at the price of gas quickly and effectively.
mr president, president von der leyen, minister, dear colleagues, tomorrow’s european council comes at an end of a year in which we delivered together. we, the european parliament, together with the commission and the council, managed to support ukraine throughout the year, managed to keep the european union united, and we managed to sanction the aggressor. just in recent weeks, we managed to provide funding and herewith security for ukraine for next year; eur 18 billion which will allow ukraine to pay salaries, to pay pensions, to keep schools, to keep hospitals ongoing and supporting the ukrainian people. and just this morning, we managed to agree on repowereu, which means that we will be able to reduce our dependency on russian fossil fuels, accelerate the transition to the green economy; we will be able to improve our energy infrastructure and our energy efficiency. but let us do more dear colleagues. full support, president von der leyen, for the ideas, which you expressed. let us also act not only react. high energy prices affect people and enterprises. it negatively affects the competitiveness of enterprises; let us work together early next year on a competitiveness check to make sure that all legislation that we put forward at european level does not negatively affect the competitiveness of european enterprises, but it helps them and improves their competitiveness.
mr president, dear minister, dear commissioner, dear president of the european commission, we are at the end of 2022 and we can say that it has also been an annus horribilis because we face a triple attack on democracy: an attack on democracy by russia with the criminal invasion of ukraine; an attack on our economy, our single market with the unacceptable blackmail on gas; and then – i do not want to escape – an attack on the democratic functioning and reputation of this institution by unimaginable criminal corruption. but, at the same time, we have stood up and reached outstanding results. we have a more social europe, a europe for health, repowereu, finally the freezing of resources for orbán and his despotic regime. so i really hope that the council tomorrow will go on with the same determination, also by envisaging a revision of the mff in the summer in the name of a permanent instrument of public support for people and for companies which are struggling with inflation. i think that we will get stronger if we do this together. thank you and merry christmas to all of you.
mr president, commissioners, minister, ladies and gentlemen, 2022 is also coming to an end, but unfortunately many of the questions we raised before the summer are still open. firstly, there are still many unresolved uncertainties about energy prices, and yesterday was the last day of the extraordinary energy council in brussels. i would have liked to say to president von der leyen, before she left the chamber during the debate, that to accelerate the energy transition is to fail to realise that the problem is the totally unrealistic green deal roadmap. the president then spoke of preserving the internal market, which is fine, but it is clear that if only governments with fiscal space intervene, europe will be torn apart. too much philosophy, too much ideology and too little attention to competitiveness and to defending jobs. you're not going far.
dear laureates of the 2022 sakharov prize for freedom of thought, dear ambassador chentsov and ambassador tarasyuk, dear oleksandra, yuliia, ivan, oleksandr, stanislav and yaroslav, representing the brave people of ukraine, dear 2022 sakharov prize finalists, dear colleagues, it is my privilege to welcome you all to the european parliament for the 2022 sakharov prize award ceremony. since 1988, the sakharov prize for freedom of thought has paid tribute to people and organisations that fight in the name of freedom around the world. a fight that is synonymous with the legacy of scientist and russian dissident, andrei sakharov, after whom this prize is named. andrei sakharov firmly believed in a world of open, free and democratic societies. the same belief that underpins our way of european life. it was andrei sakharov himself that once said: ‘a country which does not respect the rights of its own citizens will not respect the rights of its neighbours.’ this is a message that remains as relevant as ever. that is why in 2020, this european parliament awarded the sakharov prize to the belarusian democratic opposition represented by the leader of the belarusian democratic movement, sviatlana tsikhanouskaya and political activist veranika tsapkala. to this day, belarus holds the appalling record of having the highest number of sakharov prize laureates in prison. this is also why, in 2021, the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize to russian opposition leader alexey navalny for his fight against the kremlin’s abuse. and here again, i take the opportunity to call for his immediate and unconditional release. (applause)our message is that we will not forget them. we will not forget any of our sakharov prize laureates who are still paying the price for freedom. this year, we meet to honour our 2022 sakharov prize laureates: the brave people of ukraine represented by their president, elected leaders, and civil society. ukrainians who have already fought hard and sacrificed so much for their freedom and our values. and so as an introduction to this award ceremony, i invite you all to watch a short video on the laureates of the sakharov prize for freedom of thought. (a video was shown in the chamber) dear friends, today marks the 293rd day of war in ukraine. we have witnessed the inspiring resistance of ordinary citizens making the ultimate sacrifice to delay a column of tanks. senior citizens standing up to face down russian troops with nothing but pride as their weapons. brave women forced to give birth in underground metro stations. to these people, the message from europe has been clear: we stand with ukraine. we will not look away. the ukrainian people are not just fighting a war of independence but fighting a war of values – the values which underpin our life in the european union and that we have long had the luxury of taking for granted each and every day. we often speak about democracy, freedom, liberty as if they were some abstract concepts that do not really translate into much in practice. but the ability to vote for who we believe in, to read independent journalism, to assemble and to say what we want to say, to disagree and dissent, to pursue whatever gives us the most happiness in life, to live and love as we choose without consequences, these are what democracy, freedom, liberty mean. and the ukrainian people deserve to have that too. (applause)this is why i went to kyiv, to assure president zelenskyy and everyone in the verkhovna rada that this european parliament will stand alongside ukraine in this fight. this is why we sent financial, humanitarian and military aid to ukraine and why we will continue to send more. this is why we adopted eight – and soon nine – hard-hitting packages of sanctions against putin and his enablers and continue to amplify your calls to have russia pay for its war crimes. this is why we granted ukraine eu candidacy status, and defied every cynic who thought our unity would not hold. and dear friends, this is why today, we are awarding the european parliament’s most prestigious prize for freedom and human rights to the brave people of ukraine, represented by their president, elected leaders, and civil society. because once again, we mean it when we say that we will stand in ukraine’s corner. and i know that we will have to continue doing more. but let today’s award serve as a reminder of our unwavering support. and let it be dedicated to all those brave ukrainian women and men on the ground. to all those we have welcomed with open hearts into our homes. and to all those who have lost their beloved family and friends. i know that the brave people of ukraine will not give up, and let me assure you that neither will we. slava ukraini! (loud and sustained applause)it is now my immense honour to give the floor to the president of ukraine, volodymyr zelenskyy.
president of ukraine. – (the following is a transcription of the interpretation of the original speech from ukrainian into english) madam president, thank you, dear roberta, dear friends. i greet you on behalf of all our people. it is a great honour. i greet you on behalf of those who are fighting, who are working for the sake of ukraine and for the sake of freedom – for the sake of something without which it is impossible to imagine all of us, life, europe. it is impossible to imagine europe without ukraine and without freedom – not only because it would simply be untrue, but also because any attempt to deprive europe of ukraine or freedom is always a crime, and we see such a crime taking place now in russia’s terrorist war against ukraine and europe. this has also happened in the past, when tyrannies tried to conquer ukrainians and deprive all europeans of their freedom. however, when we win now – ukrainians and all europeans – we will win in such a way that there will never again be attempts to deprive europe of ukraine and freedom. we will win in such a way that there will never again be attempts to apply genocidal policies against our people, both in ukraine and throughout europe. we must create – and we will create – a new and effective security architecture for global freedom and international law and order. i believe this is part of our moral duty. look at how the russian army is advancing: the occupiers are burning everything in front of them with artillery and missiles, bombs and drones, mines and unexploded ammunition that remain in our land. the occupiers are destroying cities and villages, and all vital infrastructure. it happened in mariupol. you all saw it. it was the same in volnovakha – another city left completely destroyed after the russian offensive. more than 20 000 people lived there before this war. now it is entirely in ruins. the russian army is doing the same with bakhmut, another city in donbas where russian strikes leave behind nothing but rubble. more than 70 000 people used to live there until recently, last year. now it is in ruins. perhaps only after the end of this war, when we liberate all of our land and are able to find all the graves of the victims of russian terror, will we be able to say how many lives tyranny has taken this time. we know now the names of thousands of the victims. unfortunately, there may be many more. i ask you all to observe a minute of silence in memory of all ukrainian men and women, all adults and children, all military and civilians, whose lives were taken by this deplorable war. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence in memory of the victims of the war in ukraine)thank you very much. dear friends, we must act now, without waiting for the war to end, to bring to justice all those who unleashed it and to prevent any repetition of the aggression. this will be the most effective way to protect freedom, human rights, the rule of law and other common values, which are particularly represented by this award from the european parliament – the sakharov prize. i am grateful to everyone who investigates and helps to investigate the crimes of the occupiers of ukraine, who is looking for information about russian murderers and terrorists. i am grateful to the international criminal court, which closely cooperates with ukrainian prosecutors and has a clear intention to bring justice for the crimes committed by the occupiers on the territory of our state. i am grateful to all leaders and states, all politicians and international organisations that work together with us and make every effort to establish a tribunal for the crime of the russian aggression against ukraine. i call on all of you, your parties and states, to effectively support this work. the tribunal must start its work. the european parliament has already supported this idea. it is necessary to make it a reality as soon as possible, in particular, through the adoption of a separate european parliament resolution in support for the establishment of the tribunal, through your support, and through the support of the relevant un general assembly resolution by your countries. the cities and villages destroyed by russia, the destroyed, broken and massacred lives, should be reflected in the sentences, not only for those who directly committed all this, but also for those who organised and started this aggression. when the principle of the inevitability of punishment is applied to the crime of aggression against ukraine, we will be able to make the appropriate institutional basis of justice permanent. when any potential aggressor knows that punishment for a criminal war is inevitable, this will be the most effective tool for preventing war. my final point is about historical responsibility. evil always has a motive to return when the history of evil is not fully written. dear members of the european parliament, i know that tomorrow you will be considering the issue of recognising the holodomor, a crime against the ukrainian people, as genocide. i urge you to support such recognition with the maximum majority of votes in order to bring justice. europe must give the strongest possible signal that there will be no gap in the history of tragedies on our continent, in the history of crimes against humanity committed in our land. i believe that this will happen. thank you for your support. thank you for supporting our struggle and for this award. thank you personally, roberta. you came to kyiv at a difficult and dangerous time. thank you for supporting us, for supporting our reforms, for supporting our european aspirations, and for really helping. thank you. glory to all our soldiers! glory to each and every one who defends freedom and our people! glory to ukraine! (the house rose and accorded president zelenskyy a standing ovation)
i have to say, madam president, i think we have reached a very good agreement today on the accelerated authorisation procedures for renewable energy and i would ask that we now go back to committee under rule 59 (4) and then also start the interinstitutional negotiations.
the minutes and the approved texts of yesterday's sitting have been distributed. are there any comments? (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.) the minutes are approved. let us now move on to the discussions. i would ask you to be silent, ladies and gentlemen, because that is very difficult. those who are not interested are asked to leave the chamber and those who are interested are asked to take their seats and remain silent.
the agenda includes topical and urgent subjects (rule 162) coping with the cost of living crisis: increase wages, tax profits, curb speculation (2022/3003 ((rsp)) i would remind the honourable members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure on this point, nor will there be any blue-card applications.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, commissioner, honourable members, thank you very much for inviting the council to take part in today’s debate on this recurring and crucial topic, which i have had the opportunity to address at a number of recent plenaries. russia’s illegal and criminal war of aggression has come at a high human cost. we think first and foremost of the innocent victims in ukraine and the millions of displaced ukrainians. but putin’s war comes also with a human and economic cost for europe. soaring inflation and high energy prices have been a severe blow to household purchasing power and business costs. allow me to focus my intervention on some of the most recent developments and decisions of the council to tackle what is clearly a main concern of eu governments. in november, the council adopted the guidelines for employment and social policies of member states for the coming months and year. these guidelines react to key employment and social challenges of the last year and this year. following that, the commission adopted its autumn package for the semester of economic governance 2023. the cost of living crisis was one of the topics discussed last week by ministers at the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council. the council discussed the european semester autumn package, where the commission listed the main challenges caused by russia’s war of aggression against ukraine. historically high energy prices, high inflation rates, supply shortages, increased debt levels and rising borrowing costs are affecting business activity and eroding households’ purchasing power. all the ministers welcomed the autumn package and the priorities set out therein, tackling the immediate difficulties that people and businesses are facing while pursuing effective labour market policies that drive the twin transition in a fair way and deliver on our climate objectives. given different national contexts, member states respond differently to the situation. some governments provide for direct support to vulnerable households or use tax reductions on certain commodities, whereas others focus on job insertion schemes or the green transition. many ministers stressed also the needs of upskilling and reskilling of both unemployed and employed people, including for the twin transition. at the same epsco council meeting, the ministers adopted a political agreement on a recommendation on adequate minimum income, ensuring active inclusion. this recommendation contains several measures for further work on areas such as the adequacy of income support, access to inclusive labour markets, ensuring access to essential services, or the effectiveness and governance of social safety nets. furthermore, member states are recommended to ensure that all persons lacking sufficient resources are covered by a minimum income set by law. let me also mention other important instruments adopted at last week’s epsco council. they are the recommendation on long—term care and the recommendation on early childhood care and education – the barcelona targets for 2030, a principal instrument of the european care strategy. both instruments promote social fairness and intergenerational solidarity while leading to the creation of jobs. they also unlock labour resources for other sectors by alleviating the family care burden. another measure to tackle the cost of living is the directive on minimum wages that we adopted together earlier this year. it is worth to remind that this directive aims to help to achieve decent working conditions and a decent standard of living for employees in europe. i look forward to listening to your views on what can be done to alleviate the burden of the crisis on the people in europe. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, minister, thank you for this timely debate, which is, of course, very, very important. we know that, as a result of the war of aggression against ukraine, we had further factors, elements, of crisis after the pandemic. and so families and businesses face a global surge in food prices and energy prices. and, of course, lower income households are worst hit. for the poorest households in the eu, electricity and gas absorbs a large share of their total spending, being the second spending item after food. inflation has soared in the past year, mainly in light of rising energy and commodity prices, a tendency that has been reflected in a more general increase in prices. and businesses are also affected by rising energy costs, higher financing costs and lower consumer confidence. and this is particularly relevant for energy intensive sectors. but, all in all, we are surely facing a cost of living crisis that requires appropriate responses. the commission, starting with the energy, emphasised the need to address the impact of inflation on the more vulnerable citizens through targeted measures. as you know, not all measures that were taken or announced are indeed targeted to the most vulnerable but most of these measures now expire by the end of the first quarter of 2023. so i think we have now an opportunity to act in a more coordinated way. we would therefore recommend that these support measures that are taking a large part of national budgets be first targeted to the most vulnerable, second fiscally affordable – and the two things are connected, of course – and third they preserve the price signal to maintain incentives for reducing energy consumption as set out in our proposed euro area recommendation. we also need to acknowledge that public finances can benefit from windfall profits from certain energy companies. as you know, the commission has proposed a price cap on market revenues for inframarginal producers and the solidarity contribution from the fossil fuel sector. this will allow member states, together with national measures when they are taken, to channel very large profits, extraordinary profits towards who need support the most. addressing the cost of living crisis requires also restoring the purchasing power of wages. the attention to low-income workers is reflected in the directive on adequate minimum wages in the eu, which entered into force one month ago. besides providing relief to the most vulnerable, we need to secure alternative sources of supply to reduce our energy demand, accelerated with the clean energy transition, because you know that energy is now the main driver of this increase of the cost of living and of inflation. the additional resources from repowereu – and i congratulate for the agreement reached tonight – will incentivise member states to modify and amend their plan to accelerate the necessary investments and to address energy poverty. we need to be flexible in our reply to the crisis, learn from the lessons and the experience of these years, taking into account the examples of recent years’ success, such as the sure mechanism. thank you, and i look forward to the debate.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr gentiloni, ladies and gentlemen, 30% of the vote. in one year, food prices have risen by 30%. it's not inflation anymore, it's hyperinflation. but this 30% is not just the result of the war in ukraine and putin's maneuvers; it is also the result of war profiteers and speculators making money on vital commodities. this is the result of the hyper-financialised world that liberal policies are trying to build: products as vital as bread or cereals are fixed by traders behind their computers. when these traders decide to raise prices to pay for their profits, it is our fellow citizens who are obliged to finance them, without having been consulted, of course. it always comes back to the same thing: the enrichment of a few on the backs of the many. what is this world? is that really the meaning of our mandate here? is that really why the voters trusted us? that's why i'm here today to testify against him in front of you. that is why i want to call you to action. prices cannot be played on the trader's roulette wheel. the food crisis existed before the war in ukraine. the grain market is 90% dominated by four major companies, which recorded a profit of 10.3 billion in 2021. this war has brought to light the very great limitations of this ultra-global market controlled by financial giants. this has to stop. a large proportion of our fellow citizens and of our fellow europeans were already having difficulty making ends meet, and now they are simply having difficulty feeding themselves. so, faced with this situation, it is very simple, there is only one solution: speculation must be supervised. it is our farmers and our farmers who must feed us, not agribusiness. a framework that must be decided by us now.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, god laughs at men who mourn the consequences of causes they cherish unless the european union tries to make us grow up it fights in good faith what it has built up with such perseverance. who, in fact, has fostered the economic model that has allowed these driftings? who gave all power to speculation, doing more and more for the banks and high finance against the real economy? who put downward pressure on wages, instituting social dumping with seconded labour, uncontrolled immigration and the free trade scam? who has allowed a system of tax evasion and corruption to flourish within the european union itself? the worst is yet to come: with the sacrifice of our nuclear industry and this european union which sanctions, while the united states subsidises, it is the evasion and flight of our jobs and our companies. that is the intelligent protectionism we need, but you refuse it. it is cooperation between states that is desirable on relevant issues and the fruit of a common political will that we need, but you refuse it. don't look for the solution anywhere else. the problem is you.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to deal with the cost of living crisis caused by the rising cost of energy, there is a simple solution: we have to do the opposite of what we've been doing. first of all, we must stop speculating on the price of gas, on which the cost of electricity in general for households and businesses depends. unfortunately, despite the fact that the majority of european states spoke out several months ago on the need to set a ceiling on the price of gas, there are few governments, but obviously very influential ones, which are preventing the adoption of such an important measure. these governments are forcing themselves and everyone else in the european union to burn billions of euros out of their national budgets. an absurd, inexplicable choice, which is yielding enormous profits to the speculators who operate undisturbed on the ttf market in amsterdam and, at the same time, this bloc consisting of germany, the netherlands and hungary guarantees putin to increase his revenues from the sale of gas to the european union, so that he can finance his armaments while producing less gas. an hour ago we honored the resistance of the ukrainian people. tell me what the consistency is in all this, because i just don't understand it.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, speculation on energy prices is literally bringing citizens and businesses to their knees, but unfortunately europe does not seem to realise this. we have today awarded the highest european honour, the sakharov prize, to the ukrainian people in the european parliament, but we do not realise that unless europe takes immediate and concrete action in favour of the citizens of europe, this will soon mean that the support which europe is giving to ukraine will become unpopular. we cannot continue to ask our citizens, who have already been crippled by two years of the pandemic, to make sacrifices without offering them concrete solutions to contain the speculative bubble and, above all, prospects for overcoming the energy crisis. it is almost a year since the conflict began, and it is time for europe to take action to avoid shameful speculation on the war and, at the same time, to reconsider all those ideological positions which are incompatible with the economic scenario we are facing. the inflation generated by green choices out of touch with reality, strongly desired by the european left, is undermining the already difficult post-pandemic economic recovery, especially affecting the weaker sections of the population and small and medium-sized enterprises. today, when the credibility of this parliament is seriously undermined by serious political and judicial scandals, the only way to regain public confidence is to give concrete answers to the dramatic problems facing citizens every day, even if this means putting aside ideology or giving up defending some lobby. without bold and effective action, the future of this institution hangs in the balance.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the contributions which i have listened to attentively, but the questions in this oral question session today could be put by all european citizens after the events of qatargate. they are a harsh judgment on history, on democracy and on our freedom. so we have found that not only china, for example through chinese police stations infiltrated on our territory, not only russia, through disinformation, aim to weaken our freedom and violate our sovereignty. that is why, commissioner, the high representative, mr borrell, was right in his metaphor of the jungle and the garden. the garden, the one we have to defend. so we need to take a different approach to the difficult and turbulent environment we live in today. this is the crucial message that the european union and its member states must convey to the citizens of europe to give them confidence in the integrity of our democracy, because the reality is that our democracy is being called into question by the malicious actions of third states which aim to weaken the foundations of the european union. and we are aware of the danger to the free and fair conduct of the forthcoming european elections, for example, but what remains to be done is simple. we must make significant advances over our competitors in every field of knowledge and know-how and try to maintain a broad competitive advantage for as long as possible. we must protect our scientific talents and our societies. we must say forcefully that there is no alternative to the international order and european rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for years we have been witnessing preaching, ridiculous fake news, lectures of moral superiority from the left on foreign interference. you set up a committee on interference with the sole purpose of attacking matteo salvini, but you found nothing on him. but you didn't see, or you didn't want to see, what was happening in your house; now the huge qatari corruption scandal is exposing your giant hypocrisy. in exchange for money, some on the italian and european left would turn a blind eye to the violation of human rights. there is also a huge ngo problem. from the interviews we find out that ngos are there to make money; it is clear that, under the pretext of human rights and support for the weakest, parallel structures have been created which betray those ideals and which have been used only to make money. the european parliament must take a firm stand and the left must explain and apologize.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of the press is a measure of the state of health of the rule of law and a fundamental pillar of that state. that's in words, but then in action? how can a journalist investigate, how can he be the watchdog of power if there are no laws in all the countries of the european union to protect him from reckless legal action? instead of guaranteeing the right to report, they want to limit the ability to tell the truth to citizens, with absurd rules that hinder freedom of expression, as in italy with the cartabia law. not to mention the searches and investigations of phones, to discover the sources of journalists, actions that add to the very serious lack of protection for whistleblowers. one case in particular is a symbol of our failure to protect press freedom: assange, who has been in prison for almost four years for giving us the right to know the truth. he's in prison and those who committed war crimes are free, unpunished. is this our democracy?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no freedom of the press without working conditions. in many countries of the european union, starting with portugal, most journalists are poorly paid and jobs are precarious. all freedom is thus conditioned by the justified feeling of injustice and revolt. there is no freedom of the press without diversity. the increasing placement of media outlets under the purview of the same financial groups kills diversity, lining up more and more journalists through the filter of fewer and fewer editorial lines. there is no freedom of the press without independence from political power. the aid given by governments, represented by political parties, to media outlets in extreme difficulty undermines the necessary distance between the informant and some political power, justifying all suspicions. finally, there is no freedom of the press without freedom of expression and the safety of journalists. in the european union, which is built on the foundation of respect for freedom and fundamental rights, there are journalists who are physically intimidated and even murdered because they want to report. in this regard, it is noted that the international federation of journalists reports that in 2022 67 journalists were killed in the world, compared to 47 last year. right now, there are 375 journalists in prison, many of them european. the european parliament is on the right side of this story, it is on the side of the free press.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is considered a safe place for journalists, but threats and attacks against them are increasing alarmingly, as are intimidation and pressure. the main concerns are precarious working conditions and blackmail, as well as the protection of sources and professional secrecy. in terms of source protection, seven eu countries are in the medium risk category according to the media pluralism monitor. among these is italy, where we have seen requests from the judiciary to acquire data on private communications of journalists, despite the full availability to cooperate. in this connection, i would like to express my full solidarity with sigfrido ranucci and the editors of report, an important investigative broadcast. the repetition of these cases makes it urgent to adopt more effective regulations to protect sources and professional secrecy; the work on the european law on freedom of the media represents a great opportunity to strengthen the independence of the press. the european court of human rights has reiterated that such interference amounts to an attack on the right of citizens to free information. in some lands this warning still remains unheeded.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the current multiannual financial framework is under great strain because of the multiple crises facing the european union, in particular the war in ukraine and its effects. with funds and flexibility measures already widely used and high inflation, an urgent revision of the multiannual financial framework is desirable. it is also necessary that the commission continue its work with the member states, including through technical assistance, to increase their capacity to use funds without compromising the quality of projects and to prevent misuse and related fraud. the commission should also ensure that the european anti-fraud office, the court of auditors and the european public prosecutor's office have the necessary means and staff to investigate potential cases of fraud affecting the community budget. in the light of the scandal which has recently come to light, in order to protect the image of this institution and above all the work carried out by us members on a daily basis, it is necessary to ensure the utmost transparency and accountability in community financing instruments. we owe it to the citizens of europe.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is right to discuss the rights of persons belonging to ethnic and religious minorities and to ensure that they are committed to respect for human rights. but we have to be honest. you've been too ideologically focused on promoting resolutions, funding, communications campaigns for certain communities. we have been talking for years about the problem of islamophobia, that you think there is racism against muslims, but the real persecuted people in the world are christians, but nobody talks about them. more than 360 million christians worldwide are persecuted because of their faith. in 2021, 6,000 christians were killed for religious reasons. 16 are killed every day. the number of churches attacked is also increasing, to over 5,000. the truth is that the european union and the un are not opening their eyes to a drama that directly affects us. perhaps, i thought, many of you were more interested in favoring qatar, which is aiming at the islamization of europe.
