author. – mr president, today we should speak not only about kazakhstan, but also about all the post—soviet post—imperial authoritarian area, which is becoming an area of brutality, oppression and blood. we know what a tragedy had happened recently in kazakhstan, when during the period of peaceful protests, brutal riots were artificially initiated as a pretext to seek the russian—led military deployment. the outcome of this brutal action against those peaceful protests is very bloody: several hundred dead, many injured and nearly ten thousand detained. there is a need for objective international investigation of all the recent tragedies in kazakhstan, of course. but even now, we can make three general conclusions. first, recent developments in kazakhstan, in the same way as 2020 developments in belarus, have shown that ordinary people and civil society in those countries are fed up with authoritarian regimes, corruption, lack of justice and lack of rule of law. and that is a reason why people are demanding essential change in their countries. second, the kremlin is becoming geopolitically weaker in the region, and the only way for the kremlin to keep influence on authoritarian regimes in the post—soviet area is to play the role of military gendarme against any democratic developments. and third, in the post—soviet area, we see clear evidence that authoritarian regimes, with the assistance of the kremlin, are bringing only persecution, torture and deaths of innocent people, and only those countries which, after the fall of soviet empire, managed to establish democracies and the rule of law are able to keep peace and protect basic human rights. history repeats itself. soviets collapsed when militaries were started to be used against peaceful protesters. now, the end of authoritarianism in the post—soviet area is also coming closer and closer.
mr president, first of all, i would like to express my condolences to the relatives of the victims. i would like to join many of you in condemning the recent events in kazakhstan. the initially peaceful demonstrations, with legitimate economic and political demands, were hijacked by criminal elements, and then the military responded with excessive and sometimes non—discriminatory use of force. i would call on the kazakh authorities to respect the rights of the citizens, including the right of peaceful demonstration. i also call on the authorities to conduct a transparent inquiry on the cause of the incidents and to prosecute those who are responsible for violence and for the excessive use of force. in order for the investigation to be as transparent as possible, it is important for this investigation to include representatives of international organisations and ngos. i believe that our european partners also could take the initiative and send a fact—finding mission to the country.
dear prime minister, dear commissioner, dear colleagues. after a year and a half of work, we presented a committee document to improve the welfare of animals during transport. animal welfare is a high priority for us. animals are sentient beings that need to be protected from unnecessary suffering. farmers, ranchers and breeders agree. this also ensures better income for the farmers themselves. i agree with the report in terms of the clear division of powers, the european union standards, the information systems, the focus on new research. we must make use of new technologies to facilitate the monitoring of animals during transport and to improve access to monitoring by veterinary services. however, in order to harmonise and safeguard animal rights and to reconcile the interests of farmers, we cannot simply stop the movement to third countries. exports of genetic material cannot meet all the needs of the genetic diversity development and breeding programme. eu breeders have also developed breeds with a lower environmental impact, which is why the fight against climate change requires the dissemination of such genetics. we must ensure that animals are transported in accordance with european union standards, and use trade policy to ensure better conditions in third countries. however, it would be unfair, unfair to punish farmers in the european union by simply banning such movements. this would reduce their competitiveness and their business development opportunities. our solutions presented in this document are considered, balanced and take into account the animal welfare, environmental, food and social perspectives. the current proposals significantly improve the welfare of animals during transport and are also acceptable to farmers, and i therefore invite you, with the thanks of the rapporteurs mr daniel buda and ms isabella carvalhais, to support this report.
madam president, it is a good report, and it is important for us to understand that a major strategic goal of our foreign and security policy should be peace on the european continent. the major challenge to peace – authoritarian and aggressive russia. new security architecture on the european continent is possible only when russia will transform itself back to democracy. the european union has an immense soft transformative power of democratisation in its neighbourhood. the european integration of ukraine is the only way how the eu can help to create success of ukraine, which would have a major impact on the democratisation of russia. it’s good that integration of the western balkans, in this report, is recognised as very important for the stability and security of the whole continent. i cannot understand why it is impossible to say the same about the importance of ukraine’s integration? the balkans got such a sentence after the war ended in 1999. do we really need a war against ukraine in order for ukraine to be treated in the same way?
madam president, as we see from the current international situation, discussion on common foreign and security, and security and defence policy is very timely. i would like to ask everybody why europe, being one of the biggest economic powers, is constantly underperforming in these areas, while in another areas, like international trade, we have a completely different picture. in my view, because for far too long here europe has not been capable of really speaking in a unified voice. if we are serious about strategic autonomy or, as you said, strategic responsibility in foreign and defence policy, we should dedicate adequate resources, and make the decision—making process must faster, without any possibility of it being held hostage by some smaller national interest. but strategic autonomy also won’t be possible if you continue to depend in some areas on single supply, as it is in the energy sector now. only by increasing energy diversification can we achieve a real independent foreign policy.
mr president, i am happy to have european family heads and members together to express solidarity with the ukrainian people, who are like us, and want to live like us in the same european family. the eu founding fathers have assumed their leadership to unite and try a democratic western europe. now it is the time for us to assume a similar leadership, to unite all democracies in the european continent, because without a strong ukraine, there will be no strong europe. the eu will be as strategically strong, and will be able to become an important actor there. it is not the time for naive chamberlains or illusions that relations with putin’s kremlin can be mutually productive, or that the concessions will help. it is important that the west remains united in solidarity, even if this escalation will end without military action. we must agree on what leading role the eu must play, and what it can do to help ukraine and other countries striving for eu membership. if europe will return to business as usual with the kremlin, we will be doomed to a circle of hybrid, and not only hybrid, wars. also an intensive treatment for eu is necessary, including saving eu from cancer cells, that the kremlin-controlled corrupt has. already today, putin deserves a tribunal for threatening to start a war to kill people. for navalny, who is a symbol of a poisoned and imprisoned russia and for whom i wish strength. i thank the ukrainians.
mr president, today we need to understand that russia under putin is a declining post-imperial power. russia under putin is a desperate new ‘sick man of europe’. internally putin is afraid of navalny, externally, he’s afraid of the example of success of a democratic ukraine. authoritarian russia under putin is the biggest threat to security on our continent. putin will not change himself. threats to ukraine will continue during the years to come, because this is the way the kremlin aims to weaken the ukrainian economy. future of democracy in russia, not a dialogue with autocratic putin, is a long-term goal for a new security architecture in europe. strong and able to defend itself, ukraine will deter kremlin aggression, since only the weakness of its opponents is provoking putin for further threats and aggression. that is why the west must invest in the political, military and economic success of ukraine. eu integration is the only way to create such a successful democratic ukraine, for that purpose, the eu should put forward for ukraine a new process of accelerated reintegration beginning with integration into the eu single market. such an integration strategy for ukraine is the most effective long-term strategy to deter russia. european integration and western unity is a unique european instrument to keep long-term peace on the european continent.
madam president, once again we’re discussing a crisis in the centre of europe created by russia, and trying our best to avoid any unnecessary confrontation. once again, we see a flow of european and world leaders to meet the biggest european bully, and we are clapping our hands with relief if he decides to move echelons of his soldiers a few hundred kilometres from the ukrainian borders. of course, we should use all our diplomatic means to achieve the peaceful ending of the current crisis. i believe we can achieve this only by being united in our response. we should push even more for a common approach to any security crisis. for this reason, we have to ask governments of our member states to dedicate adequate attention and financial resources to the defence sector. we also have to free ourselves from big dependency on one big supplier in any areas of our life, including energy. for that reason, i welcome the efforts of eu diversification of energy supply. as the european security system cannot be decided in the corridors of kremlin, the same way the path of ukraine cannot be decided in the kremlin either. ukraine’s future should depend on the choice of its people. but the eu has the right and the moral obligation to stress again that ukraine has a place in the european family, and europe will help ukraine in these difficult times by all possible means – financially, with expertise and with defence and military equipment.
mr president, ukraine signed in their blood the eu membership. i myself must apologise to ukrainians and to all others that i was too weak to convince my friends in the west in time that putin is a major threat and that the biggest provocation is not nato or eu membership, but not being invited to join nato and the eu. but today there are no more eastern or western europeans. there is only our joint responsibility for the european continent. i want to turn to the russians. you also can stop the war criminal putin. i understand that you yourselves are imprisoned and poisoned with lies, but join us nonetheless. the ukrainians are dying for you also, for a free russia. some human being in the kremlin must act too, to isolate this war criminal with a nuclear button in his hands. those meps who went to the occupied crimea must now go to putin and stop him. ukrainian blood binds you. we are witnessing the beginning of an end for putin. when that end will come, i cannot tell you. i only know that we must do all that is in our power to bring it closer. thank you, ukraine. slava ukraini.
mr president, dear brothers and sisters in ukraine, dear colleagues, first of all i would like to praise the heroism of ukrainian people. i would like to praise heroism of ukrainian soldiers and the heroic leadership of president vladimir zelenskyy. ukrainians are facing and defending themselves against the war launched by a real new nazi regime in the kremlin. putin is a real war criminal. ukrainians are suffering because we, in the west, till now were too weak to stop putin’s crimes from the very beginning. ukrainians with their blood are fighting for their right to reunite with europe. they are more europeans than many of us. that is why we need to give them candidate status immediately and then we need to design special fast procedure for ukraine to join us. there is an example of such a special procedure, when in 1990 east germany integrated into the european union and it took less than a year. so, let’s establish a special procedure also for ukraine’s swift reunification with europe. after the eu started to deliver weapons to ukraine, when swift and other banking sanctions were introduced, we need the next steps. first of all, we need to stop imports of russian oil and gas immediately. each day we are paying to putin for 100 new t-72 tanks. twice more than ukrainians are able to destroy during one day on the battle field. second, let’s create a multi-billion ‘free ukraine fund’ to support the resilience, reconstruction and modernisation of the ukrainian economy. let’s finance it in the same way as we financed the next generation eu fund, with the eu borrowing in the market. thanks, josep borrell, for a good idea. third, let’s introduce full-scale swift and other sanctions also against criminal lukashenko and his banks. and the last point, a stable peace on the european continent will be possible only if the ‘de-putinisation’ of russia will happen. with the help of ukrainian victories on the battlefields, with our sanctions and with the help of ordinary russians protesting on the streets, the de-putinisation of russia is coming closer and closer. mr putin, you lost this criminal war. the international tribunal in the hague is waiting for you. for justice to be served. justice first of all to ukrainians. (the speaker concluded his speech in ukrainian)
mr president, wars end sooner or later, but the truth never ends. this report is an attempt to face the truth, to understand how deeply we are tied up. putin’s war against europe has woken us up, and today some of the provisions of this report have already been implemented. we have to understand, that the kremlin’s machine of lies is not media. it is a weapon of mass brain and mind destruction. the most important work today is, first, together with the whole world, to remove the malign tumour – putin. second, to regain european sovereignty, which has been constrained by the ‘bloody’ gas flowing from the kremlin. our dependence on russian gas is the result of two decades of creeping occupation of europe. with the kremlin gas came corruption, and the war is being financed by the euros of european states. every day, today, all the european countries together pay over eur 600 million to russia for gas and oil. that is to say, they buy at least 200 tanks for the kremlin war every day. dear german greens, socialists and liberals, you can help ukraine defend itself and defend us too – embargo the bloody gas now! i wish to thank the rapporteurs for their work.
i'm not going to let you do that. with russia attacking ukraine, we are seeing more than ever before the power and the damage of disinformation campaigns, which have been done and will continue to be done. this report proposes concrete actions to prevent this. first, the fight against disinformation must be properly regulated. rules should be established to ensure greater transparency in advertising for political companies, and the regulation of party funding should be tightened. i agree that a coordinated european union strategy to combat foreign interference is needed. the general data protection regulation needs to be enforced more strictly. it is also necessary to establish binding european union rules for the testing of online platforms for the purpose of assessing and reducing manipulation of information. i support the idea of imposing an obligation on platforms to archive in order to clarify the target group of advertising and the entity that paid for it. i would also stress that in order to counter the influence exerted by russian-language channels, we must be more decisive in removing them from the media space of the european union. good examples are sputnik and russia today. the same is true of attempts by other foreign countries to manipulate discourse.
madam president, unlike with the previous refugee crisis, we now have war on the european continent and europeans from ukraine are moving into other european countries for shelter. we have a simple european moral obligation to take care of all of them, our fellow europeans. i would like to praise the commission, the national governments, ngos and individual citizens, especially in central europe, who are doing a lot to help those who are running away from putin’s brutal war. but our obligation to the citizens of ukraine and also to those who are looking for safe shelter in our countries is a bigger one. our obligation is to stop the war. we cannot speak about solidarity with ukrainians or refugees if we are not implementing a full embargo on the import of energy resources from russia. each day, we’re paying eur 600 million into putin’s pocket. it covers the purchase of four hundred new russian tanks per day. during all the days of war so far ukrainians have managed to destroy fewer russian tanks than we are buying for putin in one day. we need to declare that our sanctions on the russian economy will stay in place until the last russian soldier leaves ukrainian territory, not only kherson or chernobyl, but also donetsk, luhansk and crimea. putin and those surrounding him in the kremlin need to understand that they will lose this war and there will be much less suffering, not only in ukraine, but also in russia itself, if putin stops his criminal war immediately and then we shall rebuild ukraine. the refugees need to have hope and we need to deliver it, all of us are ukrainians now and europeans, slava ukraini!
mr president, today europe is experiencing the worst refugee crisis it has seen since the second world war. the atrocities committed by russian and belarusian soldiers are already widely documented. murdered fleeing civilians in vehicles, women levelled by soldiers in front of their children and refugees deliberately shot in the legs. in the light of the blanket violation by russia of the previous promise to provide safe passage to the civilian population from mariupol, and having reports from the international red cross that russian troops deliberately mined possible humanitarian corridors, europe could and should do more on the sanctions list, including the banning of any import of gas or oil from russia. eu countries, in collaboration with the united nations, should step up their efforts to establish safe humanitarian evacuation corridors for the civilian population. lastly, all european countries should show solidarity and share the burden in helping ukrainian refugees. we should ensure that everybody fleeing this war receives decent living conditions, necessary medical care and possibilities of employment, and that their kids are able to continue their education in the host countries. slava ukraini!
madam president, colleagues, the security situation in europe today depends on one thing and one thing only: whether we stay strong and united and defeat the 21st century hitler and stalin in one, called putin; whether we defeat him is up to us. yesterday, a ukrainian writer, oksana zabuzhko, said ‘ukrainians are not afraid of russia. the ukrainians will defend their land’. what about us? is the european union afraid of russia? are we afraid of high costs? all of us, we have to say ‘no’. now the key questions for ourselves are, first, full military assistance to the ukrainians currently defending europe. second, full containment of the putin regime and russia to the point of total embargo. third, sanctions until the very end, until the last occupier leaves the ukrainian soil, all of its territory. fourth, a special procedure for ukraine’s eu candidate status now. ukraine signed its membership application in blood. i call on the council not to be afraid of russia and of this challenge to ourselves. ukraine needs political protection.
the honourable chairman, commissioner. this environment action programme is an important tool for monitoring the green deal, for joint decision-making and for planning climate policy. at a time when europe's capital ukraine is being fired upon and blown up, when the most fertile fields of our continent are being plundered by putin's tanks, it is vital to ensure food supplies. environmental objectives must not jeopardise the food supply and the continuity of economic viability of the rural area. we must highlight the progress of european union agriculture in protecting the environment, the value already created by our farmers. the social dimension of the transition to a more sustainable economy is of particular importance. we need to ensure that small and medium-sized farms and young farmers have access to new technologies and knowledge to help them to farm more environmentally friendly. we must prioritise the well-being of all citizens, combining farmers' progress with social progress and protecting the planet's resources for future generations.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the commission is not a party to the treaty. in the last couple of years, healthcare has become an active topic of discussion across the european union. the grand plan against cancer or the unified response to the covid-19 pandemic has not only helped to ensure better health protection for union citizens, but has also shown that health in the european union needs to be regulated in common. chronic kidney disease, which affects about 100 million people in europe, is projected to be the fifth leading cause of death by 2040. the fact that the disease often begins as asymptomatic, is diagnosed only in advanced stages, poses serious challenges to treatment, and unfortunately, many lives are lost. it is therefore essential to ensure early diagnosis throughout the european union. particularly in high-risk groups, people with serious diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, cancer, or people who are overweight. two areas must be considered. first, many secondary diseases are sensitive to social pressures: depression or anxiety, often caused by economic deprivation, inequality or difficult living conditions, and now war, especially for the most deprived, often leads to stress, which causes some of the diseases at risk. secondly, we must ensure that early diagnosis and technological innovation are equally accessible in all countries of the european union. this requires common european regulation and a strengthened european health union, which would cover not only pandemic preparedness but also the regulation of everyday health problems.
madam president, it’s our war too. this war is fought not only in ukraine; the fight is also going on in eu capitals. the only real way to end the war now is to introduce the maximum sanctions on russia now – an embargo on oil and gas, an embargo on ports, and swift sanctions on all russian banks, and doing so in such a way as to push putin to capitulate and withdraw. unfortunately, there are capitals in the eu who are opposing the introduction of those maximum sanctions, including an embargo on energy imports, without clear arguments and clear numbers. european people have a very clear opinion. they demand that we show maximum support to ukraine, alongside maximum sanctions. yesterday here in the parliament, we created a global network of parliamentarians: united for ukraine. that is the title of this network. as a beginning, there are 160 parliamentarians from 28 countries, but there will be much more. the network will do its utmost to convince national leaders, members of the european council, to listen to their voters and to stop financing putin’s war. either we’re on the side of ukraine and european citizens, or we continue to finance putin’s war. it is a simple black—and—white choice, which we need to make now.
mr president, i welcome the quick adoption of macrofinancial assistance to the republic of moldova. it’s a strong sign of european solidarity. however, as you said commissioner, this package was proposed even before the russian war against ukraine. therefore, the need for help is now higher and greater than it was before. europe has to rise up to the challenge, because moldova is fighting on two fronts at least. the first front is energy. this fight started when russia drastically increased its energy price in an attempt to punish moldova for its pro-european choice. the second front is refugees. moldova has received the biggest per capita flow of ukrainian war refugees. commissioner, the eu and its partners have to help moldova to deal with this crisis. i strongly believe that this crisis will only make moldova stronger and will prove that the pro-european choice is the right choice for the country.
you've been very specific and very vocal about the need to have our capabilities. but i would like to focus on the other part, the military mobility that is mentioned in the strategy paper. the question of funding has been raised several times. when we approved the budget. we felt there was too little funding for military mobility. and secondly, do you now intend to encourage and accelerate the implementation of military mobility measures in line with the strategy paper? because the direction of military mobility is clear, visible. mr. putin has made our job easier with his invasion of ukraine. and another thing, do you see the possibility of somehow cooperating with the military mobility funds, for example with the work on the international transport corridor.
madam president, as you have seen recently from the picutres of bucha – terrible pictures – the putin regime is a real neo—nazi, neo—fascist and neo—totalitarian regime. putin hates democracy because democracy is a mortal threat to his dictatorial regime. that is why putin is so afraid of democracy. that is why he is so afraid of domestic fighters for democracy like navalny or democracies in the neighbourhood like ukraine. putin would like to weaken or destroy european democracies based on common european values. that is why he finds some friends in european countries because authoritarian populism is attractive for some political parties and leaders in europe. but the friendship of european politicians with the neo—nazi regime in the kremlin is exactly what emboldens putin to become more dictatorial. the putin regime shows very clearly that, if such a regime is not stopped by the international community at the very beginning of its authoritarian path, then it turns into an international criminal aggressor. the old european friends of that regime are in some way responsible for putin’s aggression of today and they are accomplices of those horrible crimes in bucha and elsewhere in ukraine. in the end we need to understand that there will be no peace and stability on the european continent if russia does not transform itself back to democracy. an undemocratic russia was, is and will stay the biggest threat to european security. those in europe who were, or are still, cooperating with the autocratic putin regime or who are trying to imitate his ideology in france, in germany, in hungary or in my lithuania, are not just useful idiots for putin, but they are also enemies of peace in europe.
author. – (start of speech off mike) ... and there are also terrible pictures from bucha. we should not forget that the road to this terrible war started in 2000, when putin replaced yeltsin and began to destroy russian democracy. now we see that autocratic russia without democracy is the biggest threat to european security. navalny in putin’s prison and the terrible bucha pictures are very strongly interconnected in between them. long—term peace in europe is possible, not only if putin loses his criminal war against ukraine, but also if the russian people transform their country back to democracy. that is why we support those fighting for democracy in russia, for navalny, and for those who were forced to leave russia, and we support the long—term peace perspective on the european continent. this is what this resolution is about. the future of russian democracy is a crucial strategic issue for european security. that is why we need not only to express our solidarity with navalny, but also we need to have a clear strategy of how we are assisting the case of democracy, for which navalny is fighting, and of how we are supporting those fighters who were forced to run away from russia. let’s help the russian people to build a better russia of the future.
persistent organic pollutants, due to their exceptionally negative effects on the environment and human health, must be regulated accordingly and assessed on a regular basis. decisions should take into account the fact that persistent organic pollutants are not only persistent but can also spread far from their source and end up in other countries. it is not without reason that the stockholm convention was adopted to protect human health and the environment from the latter. i believe that the proposal under consideration is appropriate to achieve the objectives of the green deal. only recycling that ensures non-toxic material cycles should be encouraged. the introduction of harmful and hazardous chemicals into recycling processes should not be justified when the health hazards in question are returned to use and consumption. it is appropriate to aim at making the limit values established compatible with scientific and technical progress. it is also worthwhile to look for and to invest in all possible ways to promote and support the science of advanced waste sorting and toxic removal technologies. the proposal we are supporting will ensure better compatibility between the objectives of sustainable organic pollutants and the eu green deal.
madam president, commissioner, this report is well balanced and can contribute to safer and healthier food production in the european union and beyond. in my country, lithuania, farmers are ready to develop organic farming by involving more young farmers in this activity. but as you well know, commissioner, farmers in different european countries take this work from different angles. farmers in lithuania and the other baltic countries receive different direct payments for the same work, although all conditions for farming are the same as in the european union. i therefore ask you once again, commissioner, to do everything possible to ensure that direct payments are equal for all. then we can expect to see the ambitious goals of organic farming also achieved.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, david leigh, for a really well-written report and i agree with him that education is very important and that the pandemic has had a big impact on education. despite distance learning, however, contact learning, coming to school, actually provides a whole different set of opportunities for children. for the first time, it seems, the pandemic has shown that we're not protecting children, or i would say, not protecting children enough, but protecting them from infecting adults. i think we need to make some very serious conclusions and maybe our ad hoc committee, in assessing the impact of covid-19, can also contribute to the lesson-taking of this problem for the public. i also want to draw attention to the educational opportunities for ukrainian children, both in ukraine now and for the children of refugees. i think that our commission, the member states, must double down on their contribution to these children's access to education.
madam president, dear colleagues, the european continent is hit by a huge geopolitical and security crisis – russia’s war against ukraine. such kind of a crisis is showing that we, unfortunately, have been weak in our capacities in foreign and security policy to avoid such kind of crises. ‘europe will be forged in crises,’ said jean monnet, one of the founding fathers of the european union, ‘and will be the sum of the solutions adopted for those crises.’ we need new solutions now. it’s good that we have had broad consultations with the citizens of eu. it gave several important recommendations for the common and security policy to be improved. but we need to remember that the eu was created and reformed by intellectual and political leaders of the union. let’s not forget about this side of leadership: robert shuman, jean monnet, konrad adenauer, alcide de gasperi and others were the leaders, who created and who were changing the union. we have responsibility of our generation – the eu needs to adapt itself to the changes and challenges of such kind of a crisis. that requires leadership from us. we need to rise to the demand of the citizens, which was expressed very clearly: qualified majority voting, new security capabilities, and strategic responsibility for the neighbourhood. that is what citizens are demanding from us. the eu needs to change itself, and treaty change is an instrument for such a change. and let’s not be afraid of change. as the prominent irish-british conservative philosopher and politician edmund burke said: ‘a state without the means of some change is without the means of its conservation.’ if we want to secure and conserve the state of the european union, we need to go for change. that is what citizens are asking us to do.
mr president, i would like first of all to congratulate and to thank the commission president for this statement about sanctions and about ukraine’s reconstruction package. it is our war, and we need to take care, first of all, of the biggest needs – and this is ukraine. we shall have problems also, but our economies will not go down by 50%. it is obvious that reconstruction after the war will demand a big amount of our money – hundreds of billions or even a trillion euros. however, it will also open up new opportunities, for both ukraine and for the eu itself, for modernisation. investments on such a scale will create new jobs. we successfully invested a trillion euros in fighting the covid-19 pandemic. now it’s time to invest a trillion euros into the fight against the kremlin’s fascism pandemic, for arms deliveries, for reconstruction, and for the mitigation of the consequences of the war on our side. we know how to do it. also, let us create a special fund for reconstruction of ukraine until the end of june, when decisions on its candidate status will be made. ukrainian victory is the only way for all of us to live in peace on the european continent. there is no way for a cheap peace.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, in our resolution today, we show solidarity with the moldovan people, who are doing their utmost to help ukrainian war refugees, and our solidarity with the refugees who had to leave ukraine because of the russian bombardment of their cities, towns and villages. i call on the eu to continue its efforts to provide support to moldova, so that moldovans can continue to help their ukrainian neighbours. because moldova is one of the european countries hosting the biggest amount of refugees by population. the eu should step up its financial efforts to help save lives and the country’s economy in the face of the refugee crisis. it also should help with the experience such as you mentioned, commissioner, provided by the frontex agency. but we should also be ready, in case of further escalation of the situation in the region, to help moldova with the military equipment. i strongly welcome moldova’s european aspirations. i know that the accession process may be long and painful, but i hope and believe that in the not-so-distant future, the republic of moldova will be a full and equal member of our union. granting the country candidate status would be a strong political signal for all pro-european forces in the country. at least the halt on gas deliveries to poland and bulgaria shows gas is another weapon that russia is using to project its influence. therefore, i call again on moldova to accelerate its efforts to reduce its dependence on one energy supplier, encourage the country to diversify its energy sources and increase internal connection with the european energy network, as well as to accelerate its development of renewable energy. and we, as the european union, have to help moldova in this process.
mr president, we all know what moldova has faced during the last 40 years: occupation of part of the territory by the kremlin, money laundering and kremlin-loyal political parties in government and things like that. now we have a totally different picture. we have a pro-european president and a pro-european government, and we have kremlin threats to moldovan sovereignty. we know what this means. all of the european continent, including ukraine, moldova and ourselves, we are facing a huge political crisis created by the kremlin invasion of ukraine and threats to moldova and others. we need to learn a lesson – part of the responsibility for this crisis is also on our shoulders. the eu was too slow and too weak in the realisation of its strategic responsibility to bring stability and development to its neighbourhood, either in the western balkans or in ukraine and moldova. let’s imagine a different picture now – one in which moldova is a member of the eu. it’s very clear that it would be beneficial not only for moldova, it would be beneficial for eu stability in its neighbourhood, it would be beneficial even for russia, since it would have much less of a wrong temptation to restore its empire. so let’s make a strategic conclusion from the lessons of this geopolitical crisis. moldova membership in the european union is needed not only for moldova; it’s very much needed also for the european union itself. and it’s very much needed for the perspective of a different russia. together with the moldovan people, we have a possibility to create a different future for the whole european continent. candidate status for moldova and negotiations for membership – it’s our obligation to the moldovan people and to the european people.
madam president, dear colleagues, i will just read the stories. bucha. mother, father, daughter (nine) and son (five years’ old). the kadyrovites entered their house. the father’s hands were tied. he was brought to his knees and shot in front of his wife and children. the next day, the boy’s genitals were cut off. he died of bleeding. the mother and daughter were raped for two weeks. mother, father, grandparents and two-year-old girl. they were all found dead in the house. the father with his hands tied and shot. the child had a cut throat. the mother with torn genitals. a 14-year-old girl was raped by five russian occupiers. she is pregnant now. an 11-year-old boy was raped in front of his mother. she was tied to a chair to watch it happen. a nine-year-old girl was raped by 11 soldiers – at least 11 sperm samples were found. then they cut the letter z on her chest and ripped her stomach open. her parents were killed in front of her. and more and more. dear friends, dear colleagues, putin’s russia must be defeated and the war criminals must be convicted. dear sisters and brothers in ukraine, we stand with you. slava ukraini!
madam chairman, in our own consistency, we sometimes forget what aggressive and uncontrollable forces we have to defend ourselves against. by sending illegal migrants to the territory of the european union states, neither the belarusian regime nor the russian regime behind it is thinking about the environment or the conservation of species. and it may sound cynical, but they're thinking about the extermination of people, or entire nations, which is nothing less than genocide. of course, even in wartime we must not forget the environment, but we cannot forget that illegal migration through belarus is an instrument of hybrid warfare, so security is the first priority, and it is possible, unless we consider additional funding, to reduce the burden on those eu member states that directly border belarus.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we can say that today we have the republic of moldova day in the european parliament. first, addressed by moldova’s president, ms sandu, now, a debate on the eu association agreement with the republic of moldova: it is a sign that moldova is very high on the parliament agenda. first, i would like to thank moldova for their efforts to help ukrainian refugees. i call on the eu to continue its efforts to provide support to moldova, so that moldovans can continue to help their ukrainian neighbours. the eu should step up its financial efforts to help stabilise the country’s economy in the face of a refugee crisis. the report also welcomes moldova’s eu application. we support the country’s efforts to become a full member of the european family. of course, there is still a big round of reforms facing moldova, including justice reform and the approximation of its law with the european ones. but i believe that candidate status would galvanise reform efforts and would give a clear vision for its citizens. i would also call the country to boost its efforts to cut dependency on one big supplier from the east. moldova has to increase its connectivity with the rest of europe, to look for the new supply routes, and to put more attention on alternative energy resources. the report calls on the eu to make it easier for moldova and its citizens to participate in some eu programmes, for example, such as discovereu. i strongly believe that such a step will further boost pro—european sentiments in the country.
mr president, today, many people around the world want to defeat putin. the people of moldova have already won against putin by voting for maia sandu and her team. putin openly supported the kremlin candidate and lost. the eu must give clear hope to the moldovan people, who have voted for the european way and rejected corrupt politicians. moldova took in refugees from ukraine and clearly sided with the democratic states, despite the kremlin threatening moldova in the same way as it is threatening ukraine. the people of moldova deserve to be part of the european family, and the council should send a clear signal. moldovans need a european perspective. if we do not seize this opportunity, there may not be another one soon. the eu has the chance to become a real geopolitical actor. a firm hand extended to moldova would be a step towards it.
dear prime minister, we do not have to argue politically over a long history in which the destinies of nations are intertwined. we can be proud of her. and today we should be talking about how, in the face of russian aggression in the east, we cannot leave the south's unstable and uncompromising flank. we must invite the countries of the western balkans to join the accession process. i think that north macedonia has made a great deal of progress in its preparation as a candidate country. and for us, opening up the accession process is important not so much for macedonia as for our own security, stability and not leaving any space for russian influence in the region. i therefore strongly support the proposals of my colleagues to open this process for both north macedonia and albania as early as june this year.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague, isabella santos, for a really well-written report, and also the shadow rapporteurs. i think the facts are very clear. albania fulfils the requirements that were announced at the first meeting and has fulfilled them. we've got the ball now. we must be careful that a decision that is too long does not lead to disappointment. as a doctor, i can tell you that every action must be done in time. and that time is to start accession negotiations with albania. we see how our delay in the eastern flank allows one aggressor to launch one war after another. so in this case, we really shouldn't let the albanian people down. we must not create a vacuum in the western balkans. i think that we must give the council and the european parliament a firm signal to start negotiations as early as june.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the belarus dictator has again showed total disrespect for any legal norms, and again resorted to harassment and imprisonment for any possible opposition to his regime. now he has targeted trade union leaders as one of the last organised opposition forces. they join in detention thousands of political prisoners, including former presidential candidates who are serving decades—long sentences handed down by the lukashenko controlled courts. the european union should show its solidarity with the detained trade union leaders and request their immediate release. and we should continue our support or maybe strengthening of the belarus opposition force inside and outside the country. you mentioned this, commissioner. lukashenko should not fool himself that such illegitimate action, the total harassment of the belarus society, will sooner or later lead to a hard landing and the fall of his regime.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, it’s very clear that the continued persecution of opposition and trade union leaders in belarus is a heavy crime committed by the illegal lukashenko regime. today we are standing together with all the persecuted fighters for a democratic belarus and with the legitimate leader of democratic belarus, sviatlana tsikhanouskaya. we should not be naive: our appeals to the lukashenko regime to release imprisoned fighters for democracy will not be answered. that is why we cannot stay only with resolutions, which have been repeating such language for several years. belarus is not a far away country somewhere in africa, with some human rights problems. belarus happens to be next door to us , in the geographical centre of the european continent. we need to understand our own responsibility, we need to look into what kind of mistakes we have made that allowed those atrocities and that military aggression to happen in the centre of europe, in our vicinity. today we need to learn one very clear lesson: if in our region we are not able to stop an authoritarian regime in its violations of human rights from the very beginning, then at some time later those regimes will become new fascist regimes and international criminal aggressors. that is why we now need to understand a very simple truth. the situation in belarus will be radically changed for the better if putin and lukashenko are defeated in ukraine and if ukraine will get candidate status. ukraine’s success is key for the future of democracy in belarus and also in russia. that is why we need to support ukraine and together with them to win the war in ukraine. let’s learn our lessons!
madam prime minister, there is no stopping the totalitarianism that has spread. the lukashenka regime is also targeting new groups of society that are at least somewhat independent of the dictates of the authorities. this is not new: the crackdown on dissent in belarus has been going on for decades, and after the rigged elections in august 2020, the crackdown reached an even greater scale. the restrictions on all forms of public movement, on the free media, and the arrest of 18 trade union leaders on 19 april this year remind us that the judiciary in belarus is only an instrument of the regime. and those actions are carried out when belarus becomes a de facto participant in the aggression against ukraine. its current regime has provided the russian military with its own territory, airspace and logistical support. the current belarusian authorities are thus permanently deprived of any possibility of dialogue with us, with the western states. and it is stepping up repression against those who dare to criticize belarus' involvement in the war in ukraine. i agree that the international labour organisation would suspend belarus' membership of that organisation altogether, as there are no independent trade unions left there. the european union institutions should increase direct support to the belarusian opposition, civil society, human rights defenders, independent media, academia and other independent organisations in belarus and abroad.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, today is ukrainian vyshyvanka day, so that’s why i am happy to wear a vyshyvanka today. in 1945 nazi germany was defeated and their atrocities were revealed and condemned during the nuremberg trials. the soviet union, from the war it started as an aggressor, ended it regarded as an ally, rewarded with new territories. an invisible link between soviet kgb and current russian leadership is evident also in this community of crime. the legacy of genocide is transferred from generation to generation. the west wrongly decided to please its conscience with silence over soviet crimes. they were allowed to call themselves the liberators of europe, despite having committed the same horrendous crimes in the territories they occupied. the exact same narrative is repeated today in ukraine; the same unimaginable atrocities follow. but for these outrageous crimes, not only should soldiers be punished, but also their political leaders and military commanders of the russian federation, as well as their allies. also, president putin and his proxy lukashenko must be held accountable and tried by a special international tribunal. we therefore call on the eu institutions, in particular the european commission, to support the creation without any delay of such tribunal and to provide as soon as possible all necessary resources and support for the establishment of this tribunal. don’t repeat the mistakes of yesterday.
mr president, it is important that the resolution defines the establishment of a special international tribunal for the crime of aggression committed by putin. the establishment of such a tribunal will serve not only international justice, but also will have a major political impact on how the war will proceed further. it will be a very clear signal that the community of democracies has a political will to go for the full defeat of putin in his war against ukraine. the west will not be able to push ukraine for beneficial—to—the—kremlin ceasefire agreements, and plan to return to ‘business as usual’ with a person whose crimes of aggression are investigated by a special tribunal. the establishment of such a tribunal to investigate putin’s personal criminal responsibility will put an end also to the phone calls by some western leaders to putin, and will stop concerns about ‘humiliation’ of putin. the international tribunal will take care about the ‘face saving’ of mr putin. that will be the biggest political benefit from this initiative: the political west will be pushed to be united for the same goal – to defeat putin’s fascism. let’s remember, collaboration with international criminals is an international crime also.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr mcallister for his well-balanced report. just as russia is a brutal and clear threat in europe, china is a significant challenge in the pacific and indian ocean region. that is why the intelligence for our security, for the security of the european union, is so important. here colleagues said: the market, climate change are very important (countries in the region could be our partners), but equally important are social, human rights, politics, trade, science and youth. i would therefore like to invite you to pay more attention to relations with the countries of the region and to the implementation of the values of the european union in the region.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your time. we all agree that the use of pesticides should be reduced for the health of consumers, but reducing pesticides requires giving farmers the opportunity to protect their crops from pests and giving them certain tools. if new science-based technologies, such as genomic technologies, such as gene editing, could provide many opportunities, for example, to enable plants to be grown that are resistant to disease, environmental conditions, climate change and the impact of pests. this leads to a more resilient and cleaner agri-food system and contributes to the green course. no new risks were identified in relation to safety issues related to genomic technologies compared to conventional breeding. with the use of new technologies, there are fewer non-specific mutations than in normal breeding. the exact mutagenesis and crisisgenesis pose the same risks as conventional breeding. my question is: when do you plan to present updated legislation to better reflect scientific developments and to enable european union scientists and farmers to compete in global markets?
i also want to thank you for your reply and we look forward to your proposal next year. but i want to come back to the question of the different pesticides. as you said, commissioner, will the starting positions be taken into account, or will the fact that farmers in some countries are already using less pesticides be taken into account and they will not be penalised for being offered a 50% reduction, but will they be given additional aid to use less pesticides than in other countries?
mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleagues on the agreements and compromises that have enabled us to combat climate change and preserve the economic viability of rural areas. climate change is a huge, vital problem that needs to be addressed. our farmers and forest owners know this very well. they are the first to feel the effects of climate change. i therefore support the ambitious objectives set out in parliament's position. but fighting climate change for the well-being of our citizens. achieving the objectives set requires effective policy implementation and targeted investments in rural areas to support and promote the transition to a more climate- and environmentally friendly economy. we must ensure that farmers and forest owners are adequately supported. agriculture and forestry are part of the solution to modern climate and environmental problems, but they are not the scapegoats. agricultural activities are and must remain an integral part of our environment. forests must not lose their economic functions and changes in farming must be gradual and effective. we must support small and medium-sized farmers, young farmers, sustainable forestry and the strict application of import and trade standards. we also need to ensure that ambitious emission reduction targets are fairly distributed among member states. in the agricultural sector, unfortunately, inequalities in direct payments persist. farmers continue to receive different remuneration for the same work. the fight against climate change cannot be allowed to exacerbate these inequalities. we need to ensure that the allocation of emission reduction targets is fair and equitable. give our farmers a level playing field, a fair, equitable opportunity to work together to make better climate and environmentally friendly solutions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for this report and their efforts. the future of europe’s security will depend on the democratic world overcoming the brutal kremlin regime and russia becoming a normal, non-aggressive state. this requires, first of all, acknowledging the fundamental mistakes that have been made so that we do not repeat them again. the western world has not taken seriously putin’s plan to destroy democracies. the biggest mistake was engagement with putin’s regime. lessons must be learnt. secondly, those who say that russia under putin must not be humiliated as germany was humiliated after versailles are misleading. today we face hitler’s analogy, who grew out of stalin’s unacknowledged crimes and evaluated crimes. the situation now is similar to that of hitler’s and stalin’s war in europe. so we must now defeat putin as hitler was defeated. eliminating the main threat to the security of the entire european continent is our most important task. this requires helping ukraine to defend its territory and not being afraid to believe that russia can be different. the war criminal putin must be isolated. to have a different russia, the current regime must be defeated. i have a feeling that some countries of europe are frightened of ukraine’s victory and intend to repeat the same mistakes. if they continue to save the face of the brutal kremlin regime our efforts to build up our own security capabilities will never be enough.
madam president, honourable commissioner, colleagues, i would like to stress three essential things we have mentioned throughout 100 days of war already. first, ukraine needs effective, modern weapons – ‘needs’ today; better would be yesterday. postponing means losing the lives of ukrainian soldiers and of peaceful people. second, sanctions towards russia: we need a full embargo for coal, oil and gas. and third, ukraine is a part of europe and the frontline defending democracy. so, candidate status is to be granted for it. finally, about wording, we should not be afraid to use the term ‘genocide’ because all the signs of it are evident and i agree that the title should be changed. it is aggression of russia towards ukraine. it is clear for all the people of goodwill around the world.
i want to say, madam president, that people are dying in africa right now not because of the sanctions, but because russia is destroying ukrainian ports, blocking them and stealing ukrainian grain. i thank mr mcallister and mrs loiseau for their balanced report. i think we can see very clearly the three most important things. the diplomacy that is best suited to ukraine's victory today is aid in the form of heavy military equipment and financial aid. secondly, the international community can only recognize peace in ukraine when the last russian occupation troops leave ukrainian soil within the boundaries of the territory of ukraine recognized by the international community. and thirdly, that the hijacker, the attacker, the putin clique should be put on trial in an international court and ukraine should be invited to join the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, vice-president of the commission, dear colleagues, i believe that the report we discussed today sent a strong signal to the eastern partnership countries that the eu is committed to security and stability in the region. even before the war in ukraine, in december 2021 during the eastern partnership summit, security was identified as one area with a need for more intensive cooperation. now the need for their cooperation is even greater. the report is concentrating on the new security environment created by the russian aggression and our support to ukraine. of course, the eastern partnership countries are not the same. each of them have the right to choose their security arrangements and military alliances. but in the future, i believe there is a big potential for the deeper cooperation with many of them on the different security challenges, such as cyber capacity—building. there’s also a need to increase the level of interoperability between the eastern partnership countries and the eu. i believe this can be achieved through the training mission, the increased participation in the pesco project or the eu csdp mission.
mr president, the council made important decisions, but still there is a lot to be done in order for us to come out from this geopolitical crisis becoming stronger. in order to do that, first of all we need to look back and to name our mistakes of the last decades, which allowed this geopolitical crisis to happen. i see two major mistakes: first, for too long we were considering that dialogue with putin is more important than democracy in russia. that is how we allowed the kremlin to become a new fascist regime. and second, for too long we were keeping ukraine in a geopolitical grey zone, not giving it a clear membership perspective, and because of that putin decided that ukraine is his territory. we need to learn our lessons. we need to give ukraine candidate status immediately. and also, we cannot be effective during the war with the individual veto right of member states, which simply creates conditions for a blackmail culture to spread. we are at the war. not just ukraine. and i would like to see that this war will make all of us much stronger.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, today we are discussing our concerns about media freedom in georgia. why we are discussing this issue is a lot of concern, because we are absolutely sure that the georgian people deserve to be part of the european family. we want the georgian people to be members of our union. but in order to become a member of the eu, it is not enough just to have people wish to join the eu. the country needs to meet the membership criteria: democracy, the rule of law and media freedom criteria. and that depends, first of all, on the policy of the ruling party and the leadership of the country. and that is where our concerns come. media freedom is becoming a victim of the deliberate policy of the georgian formal and shadow leadership to politicise justice in georgia. it is totally unacceptable. that is what this resolution is saying in a very clear way. it is not the first time when post-communist countries are facing a similar situation. in 1997, slovakia was not invited to start negotiations because slovakia’s then populist prime minister, vladimír mečiar, was destroying democracy and media freedom values. the slovakian people resolved that problem and voted out the mečiar government. i would urge georgian government not to repeat the mistakes of vladimír mečiar.
mr. chairman, i have to ask you a question. dear vice-president of the commission. thank you for your speech and your report. you made a very good point that we have a good tool -- a forest strategy -- and that forests are the lungs of our planet. in fact, two things are very important in preserving forests and preventing illegal logging. first, access to legal logging is not highly bureaucratic. my colleague here mentioned the difficulties in issuing legal permits. but on the other hand, i think that the management of deforestation is also very important. you mentioned satellite systems that are used to assess the state of the forests. perhaps it would be better to share with the member countries and with local experts to improve the management of forests and to punish those who cross illegally.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, today we are writing the history textbook of our generation. more precisely, the ukrainians are writing the history of the new europe with their own blood. thank you, dear ursula, for your leadership. granting eu candidate status to ukraine is so widely supported. however, that will not be enough. it is necessary to help ukraine win the war and give ukraine the weapons it needs. i call on some eu member states’ politicians to stop sending pessimistic messages to the struggling ukraine by saying that ukraine’s path to eu membership will take decades. show your leadership so that this country becomes part of our family as soon as possible. the impression is that it is not ukraine but the politicians of some eu countries not ready for ukraine’s membership. just as after making the mistake of friendship with putin, they are not ready for a different russia. i sincerely congratulate moldova. i visited the country last week. they have performed a miracle when in peaceful democratic elections they managed to overcome the kremlin’s candidate. they have turned their country back towards europe. we must help moldova seize this historic opportunity. on monday, with the largest demonstration in the history of modern georgia, the people sent us a signal from tbilisi that they are determined to follow the path of europe. i say very clearly, we are with you georgians. unfortunately, it seems that georgia’s government did its best not to make the european commission recommendation more favorable to georgia. i appeal to all georgian politicians – both the ruling elites and the opposition – find the strength for a strong european agenda. your amazing people deserve it. releasing the imprisoned two former presidents and owner of the opposition media would be an important step towards a european way of life. regarding the western balkans, we must be decisive and ready to move ahead with a clear timetable and concrete milestones. the western balkans deserve fair treatment from us.
mr president, dear colleagues, first of all, i would like to congratulate the courage of the ukrainian people. their heroism opens the doors for the historical decisions of european union to give candidate status to ukraine and moldova. but today, after authoritarian russia started criminal war against democratic ukraine, we need to say even more. first, enlargement policy is the most important geopolitical policy of the eu, because this is the only way to expand the area of democracy, stability and prosperity. and this is the only way that long-term peace can be established on the whole continent. second, we need to understand that eu enlargement is needed not only for ukraine, moldova or western balkans; it’s very much needed also for the whole eu, because enlargement makes the eu stronger, not weaker. that is why we, on the european side, not only ukrainians, need to be ambitious and courageous. for the last decades, we in the eu, we were living with the philosophy of ‘geopolitical laziness’. now the war demands from us to come back to the philosophy of ‘geopolitical courage and enlargement’. let’s do it.
mr president, i welcome the commission's objective assessment of the recommendation. ukraine, moldova, sakarovel have earned the status of candidate countries for the european union. especially today, ukraine is defending european values with its life. and at the same time, they have taken bold legal decisions, such as ratifying the istanbul convention. we must continue to support ukraine with heavy weapons, adequate funding and strengthened sanctions against the aggressor. in the future, i hope that a democratic belarus will join this trio and change, but we must not ignore the european union's expansion in the western balkans, especially in cooperation with north macedonia and albania. i think their progress, their willingness to negotiate, is proven. the decisions of the executive council are now required. i hope that the council will reach a unanimous decision, because we need a wider european union, a more peaceful european union.
madam president, we can indeed be pleased with the results of the erasmus programme, which has opened the door for many young europeans to get to know each other, to learn about scientific innovation and to gain experience. but we can't stop. we must also look at the countries today where we expect greater commonality. we have spoken a lot today and we have supported the future candidacy of ukraine, moldova, sakartowo to join the european union. therefore, it is very important to increase the funding for the erasmus programme, to give young people from these countries the opportunity to come and benefit from this programme. this allows for a better understanding of european culture, european history and a more inclusive atmosphere. i very much agree with the idea of the colleague who spoke about supporting a network of alumni who could really be ambassadors of the european programme 'erasmus'.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, madam president, for such a balanced report and assessment. we all recognise that montenegro is the leader in the western balkans. and it's symbolic that we've been paying a lot of attention today to ukraine, moldova, georgia. and here we are again, the western balkans and montenegro. yes, montenegro has problems and needs to be dealt with. it's probably not montenegro's fault that it's being influenced by russia, china, that it's being infiltrated into cyberspace, that it's being subjected to all kinds of hybrid attacks. but this government has made it very clear that it supports european values. beyond the chapters that need closing and are being discussed, she has made clear her position on russia's war against ukraine. it has supported all sanctions imposed by the european union. i would therefore invite the european commission to work even more actively to welcome montenegro to our ranks.
as a man, i am ashamed that we have to discuss here, in the heart of europe, in the 21st century, the issue of women's poverty. but i think, on the other hand, it's an honor that we can take this issue and solve this problem. in fact, we see that in the european union, women are paid differently for the same work in different countries. as a doctor, i can tell you that women face more problems in getting medical care in different countries. i therefore think that the suggestions of european citizens should be taken seriously, that we should take more responsibility and, as the report says, recommend that we should level out these disparities in all member states, that we should be proud that in the european union women and men are paid the same for the same work, that there is no gender gap in poverty. thank you for the report.
multilateralism as a means of communication between states is currently undergoing extraordinary challenges. the russian military aggression in ukraine is a serious violation of international law and the international community is not finding instruments to stop it. the economic pressure on lithuania initiated by china in 2021 (which was a reaction to the strengthening of trade relations with taiwan) cannot be overcome by the european union alone or through international formats. this growing disagreement between authoritarian and totalitarian states with any multilateralism stems from the international order that emerged in 1945, which, as this report gently states, does not fully reflect - and i would say no longer fully reflects - the world of today. that is the order to be changed, and let us hope that this report will contribute to that.
i welcome the decision of the european council to grant candidate status to ukraine and moldova and to grant a european perspective to sakharov. i also strongly support the points made about the need to open accession negotiations with albania and north macedonia. we must take into account the european citizens' wish to have a stronger european union, not by increasing democracy but by strengthening the political platform in the areas of energy security and, in particular, health. it is good that the council has spoken in favour of further political, financial and military support for ukraine, but the funds currently available are not sufficient and we must look for new instruments. finally, it is necessary to ensure at eu level that the harvests produced in ukraine are transported to neighbouring countries, particularly in north africa, and to offset the price jump for eu citizens caused by putin's war in russia.
madam president, the need for a bicycle strategy may sound like the need to invent a bicycle. in fact, the bicycle issue is too transparent and clear to be controversial. it is a vehicle that contributes to climate change objectives, addresses the energy situation and promotes health, and is therefore all positive. many enjoy the sight of bicycles on the move. the objectives of promoting bicycles coincide with the highest targets for damage, and implementation is, as we know, at the lowest level, that of the municipalities. it is worthwhile to address the phenomenon of why some cities are recognised as being bicycle-friendly and others are not. the exchange of such experiences at european level can help here. as the development of cycling overlaps with many areas of european competence, it may be worthwhile to bring it all together in one document, as it would undoubtedly generate new ideas on how to further promote this mode of transport.
thank you, mr delors, for this fine initiative, and thank you, mr commissioner, for your thoughts. i don't think i'll repeat all the good things about cycling, about it being healthier for people, better for nature, cleaner for the environment, but i want to highlight the possibility of more contact, especially for young people, europeans, going to each other and creating some kind of gatherings. but i have two suggestions. one suggestion is that perhaps, in terms of infrastructure, the european commission could allocate funding to infrastructure management to specifically allocate a certain percentage to the repair of bicycle paths. and the second proposal is that not only infrastructure, not only safety, but also the use of bicycles when you get to the workplace. first of all, i remember our european parliament, when i came here and i got a little sweaty on my bike, and i couldn't take a shower in my office because it just didn't work. but you also need to make sure that the work environment is such that you can arrive on your bicycle and continue to work after you have cleaned up properly.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, we are facing a crisis and we must respond to it with a united and concerted response. it says, "from famine, from pestilence, from fire, and from war, save us, o lord". russia's brutal and irresponsible actions in ukraine will not help to control climate change. while climate change is a global problem and a responsibility for all, we cannot forget first and foremost our citizens, our businesses and the burdens they bear. for example, agriculture, which is exposed to extreme weather events and has to take full responsibility for dealing with the consequences, can lead to a serious food crisis. the threat must be taken seriously. research, preparedness planning and real investment should be our priority. cohesion financial mechanisms already provide a number of ways in which, for example, the existing three billion trees initiative will certainly contribute to climate change mitigation and human health.
mr president, really, first of all, we can be quite happy with the recent developments on the military front in ukraine. we can congratulate the ukrainian soldiers on leadership and, of course, they’re doing such a great job because the west is providing weapons. but my questions would be about the future and not about the military future. really things in ukraine are very much damaged by russian occupants and so on. the economy is now in a bad shape. we know from imf evaluations that each month ukraine needs around 5 to 7 billion in external financial assistance. and my question would be for next year, what the commission is planning, because it means that for next year we need to have around 70 billion in our external assistance for ukraine.
a very short comment or additional question. we congratulate that the commission really found a way to allocate 9 billion. the question is about next year. up to 70 billion to finance the daily business of the ukrainian government, paying salaries to teachers, paying salaries to medical doctors – that will be needed. so my question is, and suggestion really, to the commission to come out with a much more clear long-term plan of how to finance the ukrainian state during this very difficult times and how really to win this war not only with weapons, but also with clear financial assistance for ukraine.
madam president, dear colleagues. we are witnessing how china is becoming more authoritarian and more aggressive. and that is the same development which we saw in russia during the last 20 years. it started from violations of human rights and it ended with an invasion of ukraine. stability and status quo are very important, but we cannot keep status quo in our position when china is dramatically changing its policy. china abandoned its one—china two—systems policy towards hong kong. china is implementing genocide against uyghurs. they are increasing military threats against iran. now china thinks that they have the right to decide who can visit taiwan. and they think that china has a right to punish, because of that, other countries. or to punish taiwan if your speaker of congress is visiting taiwan. it’s time to say to china that they have no such right. and the best answer would be the visit of the european parliament speaker to taiwan. even better would be a visit together with mr vice—president.
madam president, dear colleagues, it is very clear that we are facing both short-term and longer-term challenges. there is a need of quick strategic decisions for this winter, showing to putin that he will not win with his strategy against the european union. we did not allow the pandemic to kill our economies, and we shall not allow putin’s energy crisis to kill our economies again. but with short-term measures, we should also need to avoid killing energy market of european union because there are a lot of examples. for example, when electricity is generated in one country and consumers are another in another country. there is also a need for longer-term solutions which we need to declare now. first, we need to declare that we shall not come back to ‘business as usual’ and we shall not buy any more putin’s gas, even one after ukrainians will win the war. and second, we should declare that we are ready to speed up implementation of green deal and get rid not only of russian gas, but in general to get rid of gas and oil consumption.
i support your proposals, mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, on the management of the energy crisis, on the joint efforts of the european union to limit surpluses, to set gas prices and to improve infrastructure. i think we need another instrument, namely recovery and support for our citizens, especially those who need it most because of the rising energy prices. but it's also important to understand in the long run that this price increase, this crisis, is caused by putin's military invasion of ukraine. and if we want to solve this problem quickly and permanently, our best bet is to help the ukrainians win the war against putin. they've shown over the last week that they can do it. let's send them additional weapons, so-called offensive weapons, but let's not call them, let's call them liberating weapons, which will free ukraine and europe from price hikes.
mr president, mr commissioner, the new european bauhaus is really a project of economic and cultural integration. this is an opportunity for the green economy, it is an opportunity for our designers and architects to preserve tradition and innovate to create a new face of europe. of course, like any project, it requires funding. i believe that this project will be accompanied not only by words, but also by documents and by funds. and as in any nursery, we can see a beautiful flower, but if we put a few rings together, we get a beautiful bouquet. it is in this new european bauhaus project that we should see the diversity of different traditions, different peoples and european requirements for minimum standards, so that we can create a new, healthier environment and a spiritual influence for our new generation.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, there is no need to repeat that forced deportations of ukrainians and their children to russia, to faraway siberian regions – that this is a huge crime against humanity, and this is a war crime of genocide. there is no difference in between of crimes of deportations to gulag camps during stalin’s time and deportations done now during putin’s time. we need to speak in a very clear way: putin’s crimes of deportations, also other war crimes, were born out of the first and major crime of putin – crime of war aggression. and that is why we need to immediately address the major issue: the creation of special international tribunal on crime of war aggression. it is the only instrument to target directly the crimes personally of mr putin; it’s also to show both to putin and to his elite that there will be no way to come back to business as usual in between of the west and criminal putin regime, even after the war. it’s good that the resolution speaks about such a special tribunal. it would be good if big capitals would also support the creation of such a tribunal. it would be a clear evidence that nobody wants to go to business as usual with a criminal.
mr president, mr commissioner, in fact, each new environmental disaster means that we have not learned from the previous ones. and we haven't taken the steps that are necessary. you have made a very clear statement about the need to wait for the results of the studies and to strengthen the warning systems and the response to such events. but here we hear from some of our colleagues that the government is not to blame, it has nothing to do with this and the problem will somehow resolve itself. my suggestion and my question to you, commissioner, is this: can the commission really be expected to take on more responsibility as an expert, as a sort of arbiter, rather than leaving it to the member states alone to solve all the problems? because this is not a disaster for the member states, it is a disaster for the health of europe's people and for the environment, and we should avoid it. and i would very much expect more serious, more stringent recommendations from the commission.
i would like to begin by thanking you for a timely report. we lithuanians have a beautiful saying: don't hold back the flow of the river. so i think we can't stop new technologies from coming into the financial sector, and that's not something we should be talking about right now. we should be talking about how to create a level playing field so that they don't get hurt in the process, but we could be taxing crypto assets fairly, and we could be providing social security for people who work in this field, and we could be providing social security for people who are involved in the new use of new technologies, because we know that in more complex economic conditions, people tend to respond to those offers that seem very financially promising. unfortunately, as my colleague has pointed out, the bankruptcies that are coming, the disappearing wealth, is causing tremendous suffering to the people involved. i therefore welcome the report and i hope that our efforts will lead to the right taxation and to a more socially just environment.
i really support your efforts and work to protect our citizens across the european union, commissioner. and i agree with you that eu member states have a lot of responsibility in this area. but there are things that the member states cannot do, and that is our responsibility as the institutions of the european union. i am referring to the common agricultural policy and direct payments to farmers. when we joined the european union, we were promised equal pay for equal land. however, today farmers in romania, portugal and my country, lithuania, receive much lower direct payments, and this has discouraged them, especially young farmers, from remaining in the countryside. would you agree to support the pledge of your colleague, commissioner wojciechowski, to level these direct payments and to provide equal conditions for all those working in agriculture in any country of the european union?
i'm not going to let you do that. in fact, after our visits to sudan and ethiopia last month, we were all able to confirm that this is a hot region. and the root of all of this ethnic tension is poverty, climate change, and the influence of outside forces, like wagner's private soldiers, in that region. there's a lot of russian weapons going on, mr. wallace, who here has been praising russia for trying to establish itself there. and our responsibility, i think, as defined in the report, our strategy should be to change the relationship with the countries in this region, africa, from paternalism to very close cooperation in developing bilateral relations, and also the european union and the african union, so that we can ensure peace in that region, give young people the opportunity to work, to study, to train and thus have a stronger cooperation between us.
madam president, it has already been said that water is a condition of life, a human right to water. climate change and military conflicts are the main obstacles to its implementation. and it's usually the most vulnerable, the women and children, that are affected. these days, one can see how, for example, in the case of russian aggression against ukraine, infrastructure is destroyed, the supply of heat, electricity and water is disrupted. we must therefore do everything we can to implement our green agenda, solidarity, to end military conflicts and to ensure access to water. i therefore call for support for this prepared report because i believe it is a holistically defined approach to how the human right to water should be promoted.
dear prime minister, it's been eight months since russia renewed its war against ukraine. they were full of loss, sorrow, fear, but also full of the unity of the ukrainian people and their allies and their determination not to give in to aggression and violence. the forced, rigged pseudo-referendums by the aggressor last week only show that russia is not prepared and is not prepared to act according to the rules of the civilized world. colleagues, listen, putin and his entourage understand only the language of force. therefore, the only way to resolve this conflict is to liberate the occupied ukrainian lands, and that requires more and better arms supplies to ukraine now. lately, putin has been waving the nuclear weapon card like a mad bull. we must emphasize unequivocally that in this case russia would break all taboos and all russian military facilities in both occupied ukraine and russian territory, including underground bunkers of v. putin, would be targeted for a retaliatory strike. peace and negotiation are only possible after the defeat of the aggressor. let us remain united and united. glory to ukraine.
mr president, first of all, of course, congratulations to the victorious ukrainians. it is clear that the end of the war depends only on how much weapons the west delivers to ukraine. in some way it’s a shame for the eu that the united states delivered eur 25 billion value of weapons and the whole european union support, together with all the member states, is only less than eur 6 billion. the same is true with financial aid. the european union is heavily behind the united states’ assistance. it’s not enough, our solidarity statements. real eu money is needed. sanctions are working. but the most special next sanction on putin would be the immediate creation of a special tribunal on crimes of aggression, which would target directly putin. ukrainian military performance is above all the nato standards. not ukraine should ask for nato membership, but nato should ask ukraine to join, because ukraine is implementing nato mission to stop russia’s imperial expansion to the west. we can help russians to bury their imperial dreams with immediate ukraine nato membership and negotiations on eu membership starting early next year. we shall show to russia that ukraine is gone from an imperial grey zone.
mr president, dear colleagues, for 20 years, corruption have been the biggest export of putin’s regime. the public friends of putin we just heard, who speak regularly in this house, his open cronies in member states, are an important part of russia’s war today. but there is another side to the putinisation of europe: the kremlin has developed sophisticated methods where the openness of democracy is used to influence the emotions of people and politicians. the kremlin has become adept at easily achieving goals. their manipulations and lies are on the front pages of the media, presented as alternative or second opinions. their lies are presented through some ngos, cultural, business, sports or even religious organisations that are penetrated and funded by the kremlin. we have not yet fully identified this. today, our biggest challenge is to counter blackmail with gas and nuclear weapons. the kremlin needs fear-inspiring headlines and speeches. our response must be our refusal to be afraid. let’s de-putinise our fears. the moment of truth, the kyiv moment, is our chance to evaluate the past and to clean up our political system.
the essential feature of 'counter-propaganda', madam president, is the truth-answer to the propaganda lie. and this lie of the kremlin and its followers - individual actors, interest groups and extremist political movements in europe - is ingenious, long and carefully prepared, generously funded and criminal in its essence, and therefore can and must be punished. the clichés of false statements are becoming recognizable: doubts about the crimes of the kremlin, about the reasons for the war, and if ukraine breaks through the situation on the fronts, it is already proposed to stop it by diplomatic means. mechanisms to counter this propaganda exist, but they need to be much more rigorously enforced. the ban on russian state media was right, but it is not enough. raising awareness, educating the public, supporting experts, organisations working on propaganda and disinformation, actions we have been asking for for years. when we give the air to the kremlin, we hear only violence, propaganda, but that's not allowed by the eu digital services act, so let's stick to it. 300 million spent by russia to fund political movements abroad, that is, here, is in direct contravention of the counter-terrorism financing directive. therefore, persons actively seeking to influence assistance to ukraine must be held accountable, their hidden financial links with their country of origin russia must be revealed.
hon. prime minister, we can all agree that haiti is a country of violence and poverty, with the rise of the gangs that officially control the infrastructure, and who have the most influence on the decisions of the country. we must find the strength to help the ordinary people of haiti. i welcome the european commission's 17 million for haiti, but i ask the commissioner to ensure that this aid actually reaches the most vulnerable people who need it, and not get stuck somewhere in the corridors of gangs and corrupt government. because the most vulnerable people in this situation are women, children, who are deprived of food and medical care, who suffer from hunger and poverty. i think we need to focus our efforts on delivering humanitarian aid, but also on ensuring that fair and transparent elections are held and that order and trust are eventually restored in haiti.
mr president, two weeks ago my colleagues from the afet committee and i visited ethiopia and we were able to see firsthand the fragile and heated situation in that country, particularly in the tigray, afari and amhara regions. colleagues spoke of rape, hunger, poverty, destroyed infrastructure, schools, hospitals, and the inability to eat, to go to school, especially for children, and the involvement of children in armed conflict. so what can we do to stop this and change it? first, we must do everything we can to end military intervention from outside, by talking directly to the ethiopian leadership, as well as to the african union. second, that the warring parties in ethiopia find a way to sit down and negotiate a solution to the conflict. and third, that the humanitarian aid we provide reaches those who need it most, which are the children and women. and fourth, that those responsible for war crimes be punished.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your time. we're in the middle of a russian-led energy war. yesterday we talked about starving people in africa, today we talk about european farmers becoming too expensive to buy fertilisers. the main objective of agriculture is to provide europeans with healthy food. without nutrients, there will be no good harvest. we see disparities in the use of fertilisers in the member states of the european union, so the reduction in fertiliser use should not be a percentage for the member states, but in absolute figures where there is too much use. what can we do? first, to support the prestigious agriculture. second, increase the use of organic fertilisers. third, to use the scientific advances that european scientists are offering today, including new breeding technologies. fourth, to support european fertiliser production capacity. and fifth, the joint purchase of gas for fertiliser production, including gas price caps. we look forward to a more active commission and to closer cooperation with farmers and listening to their needs.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your time. as we've heard, covid is not going away, although it may be changing its form. we have created a dedicated hera body in response to covid to provide recommendations and warnings on the direction of the pandemic. i want to ask you if hera itself is fully formed and we can expect it to work at full capacity, and we can have very clear priorities for the vaccination schedule and the implementation of treatment methods. as the chronic disease that persists is really taking its toll, we would like to invite the commission, as my colleagues have said, to be more effective in promoting the dissemination of accurate information both on the availability of vaccines and on their transparent procurement. we also actively call for joint efforts, a larger european health union and joint procurement of both vaccines and medical devices. i would like to ask how the commission intends to make full use of its powers in the fight against covid.
mr president, mr commissioner, i agree with my colleagues that we really need to limit the excesses as quickly as possible in this situation. this means introducing taxes, limiting the price of gas, especially electricity, and distributing the revenue fairly to small and mediumsized businesses and the poorest european households. but i would like to point out one more thing: we must be very responsible in fulfilling the commitments we have made. i regret that commissioner dombrovskis has left, and i wanted to tell him that farmers in his country receive lower direct payments than farmers in my country, lithuania. although it was promised when the accession process was underway. i therefore call on you, commissioner, and on commissioner dombrovski to ensure that all commitments are implemented. only by acting in solidarity can we break our dependence on putin's energy blackmail and stop nationalism and populism in europe.
i really want to thank you, commissioner, for the report and the attention to mental health. as a doctor, i can tell you that in fact, mental health is not just about mental health, but it's also about physical health. the pandemic, the war, the stress, showed that mental health really isn't getting enough attention. we must therefore join forces to make a decision, not only in the member states but also at european level, to integrate people with mental disabilities more fully into our daily lives, to remove the stigmas that still exist for them, and even the environment that exists in our daily lives should also be adapted to people with mental disabilities, so that they can better orient themselves and be more involved in our common work, so that they can feel like full citizens of the european union.
mr president, dear colleagues, russia as a terrorist country was and is weaponising immigration. since last year, russia started to weaponise on illegal immigration through belarus of people from africa and middle east into lithuania, poland, latvia. with the beginning of the brutal and criminal war against ukraine, russia was hoping that millions of war refugees from ukraine will not be accepted in eu countries and chaos will prevail. putin failed. europeans showed their solidarity. with the recent mass bombings of civilian infrastructure in ukraine before the winter, putin expects that new millions of ukrainians will be forced to leave their country. with the recent mass military mobilisation in russia, the kremlin created a new mass flow of migrants from russia itself. in hundreds of thousands, they are going to kazakhstan, georgia, armenia. russians do not want to live in their terrorist country. that is an essence of today’s russia, and that is the tragedy of russia. what should be our policy response? we need to keep our eastern borders under strict control vis-à-vis putin’s or lukashenko’s manipulated migrants from africa and the middle east. second, we need to declare that we shall accept all the ukrainians who will be forced to leave the country because of the putin’s war. third, we need to financially help kazakhstan, georgia, armenia, which accept massive flows of russian refugees. with proper security precautions and according to our legislation on asylum, we need to be ready to accept those russians who will become deserters from the real russian armed forces. terrorist states will fail, whatever weapons, including weaponisation of migration, they will try to use against us.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the aggressive war launched by russia in ukraine, along with other fatal consequences, has since the first days generated migration flows unprecedented in europe. there are currently four million asylum seekers. thanks to the response of the non-governmental organisations, the response of the governments of the member states, the commission's activation of the temporary protection directive, the commission and the council's decision on the financing, the situation has stabilised, but the burden of asylum is unevenly distributed in terms of gdp, with the greatest burden falling on the baltic states and poland, and even on non-eu member moldova. in addition to these long-term efforts, the integration of refugees into health, social, educational systems, and the labour market is contributing to the solution of the problems of migration from one region to another in ukraine itself. i'm proud that lithuania is doing the same, but the war is not over. russia has chosen criminal tactics, trying to compensate for its losses on the front lines by sitting on the death and despair of civilians, by bombing ukrainian territory again and again, destroying civilian infrastructure, now with the help of ever more modern weapons that are being sold to it. with a heavy winter approaching, we'd like to hear how we're preparing for a new wave of possible exodus from ukraine.
mr. commissioner, i have to ask you to excuse me. first of all, i would like to thank you for your attention and concern for the war refugees from ukraine since the beginning of the war, for the activation of the temporary protection directive, for the material assistance provided and for the current initiative on the allocation of part of the funds to ngos and local authorities. i also want to thank all the europeans who have welcomed ukrainians, including me, the lithuanian people, who have shown great care in providing their homes, feeding them, clothing them, taking them to work. i would like to draw your attention, commissioner, to the fact that putin's aggression in ukraine has also triggered another flow from belarus, whose people are not supporting his authoritarian regime, led by lukashenko, and who are facing the same problems here in the member states of the european union. i therefore urge you to take note and help the refugees from belarus.
commissioner, thank you for your attention to children, especially missing children. you've done a great job of filling us in on the numbers. how many of these missing children are there, and that most of these children are missing from migrant or war refugee families. my colleague mentioned a new flow of them, that is, children of ukrainian refugees, but also children kidnapped by ukrainians from the occupied territories and taken to russia. perhaps, as you propose to revise the child trafficking directive, we could allow the candidate countries to use our systems to record these missing children, so that ukrainian abductees could be taken to russia and sent to various camps, or as mr. putin is now proposing to make it easier to adopt ukrainian children in russia, because maybe in this way we could help return ukrainian children to their families and to the families of ukrainian children.
madam president, dear colleagues, we just heard putin’s words. now we have to be back to the topic. we have never had a situation like this before. it is clear that a major nuclear power, a permanent member of the un security council, with all its military and administrative power, is committing acts of terror – killing civilians, destroying infrastructure, using systemic violence and intimidation. we must name russia a terrorist state for several reasons. first, it must be isolated, just like cancer cells are isolated by medical doctors. second, to guarantee accountability and to prevent impunity. a list of concrete actions have to follow. russia is not a terror—sponsoring country. russia is a terrorist state. the eu needs to build its own legal framework to define what a terrorist state is and how to contain it. we have to start to do this now, not tomorrow.
madam president, mr commissioner, we have actually been arguing for some time about what to call putin's russia when it has supported terrorism in various regions of the world, but there comes a time when some actions overflow the cup. and here are all those of us who were in bucho, those who were in other parts of ukraine, those who saw the reports from ukraine, the excavation of many mass graves and those who today see the missiles falling from russia on kindergartens, schools, on civilian buildings. isn't that terrorism? i think that's a common assessment of all of us from different political platforms. and the children killed, the civilians killed, that's what putin is doing today to intimidate and to implement his great imperial russian ideology. let's come together, have a unified designation and a unified response to these terrorist acts by putin.
madam president, dear colleagues, i hope that the council and commission will find proper solutions for this energy crisis and also will understand what kind of our mistakes and dependencies in the past led to it. i will speak about geopolitical crisis of war, which europe is also facing. two weeks ago josep borrell in our plenary openly and bravely admitted, that till now the eu had no russia strategy, because eu was too dependent on russian gas. and it had no foreign policy towards ukraine, because it was a subsidiary to our policy on russia. because of that, there was no eu enlargement policy towards ukraine, and that was the eu’s strategic mistake which led to a geopolitical crisis. now we are less dependent on russian gas, and ukraine and moldova got candidate status. but do we have an ambitious enlargement strategy? i have doubts. because i do not see, that the eu would be ready to start membership negotiations with ukraine and moldova in 2023, which again means that our strategy towards ukraine can be captured by prevailing bureaucratic attitude towards enlargement. there is still time for the council and commission to stop continuation of such a strategic mistake.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, two war criminals – lukashenko and putin – are holding the belarusian nation captive and terrorised. lukashenko is responsible not only for stealing the elections, but also for giving belarus sovereignty away to russia. lukashenko and the iranian regime are helping russia in its war of aggression against ukraine. they are responsible for the war crimes. they must be sanctioned and face justice in an international tribunal. at the same time, lukashenko feels vulnerable and scared. he would have opened a second front against ukraine, but he knows the true will of the belarusian people – they are against the russian aggression, they seek to be good neighbours for ukrainians. the kastuś kalinoŭski regiment in ukraine, formed of belarusian volunteers, is the true expression of that will. there are nearly 1 500 political prisoners of lukashenko’s regime. the number is growing. i invite each one of you to become a godparent to one of the political prisoners. your postcards, your telephone call to their family will be a precious signal of support. let’s make sure not one of them is forgotten. i also invite the european parliament to formalise relations with a democratic belarus, led by sviatlana tsikhanouskaya. free and democratic belarus is possible, but we have to help ukraine to win this war. ukraine’s victory will bring victory for free belarus and free russia. let’s do our utmost to achieve this victory. (the speaker used slogans in non-official languages)
dear prime minister, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the lukashenka regime continues to actively support the russian war against ukraine. he receives russian armed forces on belarusian territory, starts mobilizing belarusians and provides arms to russia from his depots. lukashenko has once again shown that his only goal is to preserve the regime. in order to maintain power, he is ready to sacrifice his country's sovereignty, to go against the will of the belarusian people, 80 percent of whom do not support russia's war against ukraine. but the belarusian regime itself is being kept by russia. therefore, russia's defeat in ukraine is the most direct route to the democratization of belarus. the european union's response must be to provide further military, financial and humanitarian support to ukraine. the european union countries must resist the increasing attempts of the belarusian regime to establish contacts with the governments of the european union member states. the position of the european union is clear: lukashenko is the illegitimate president who stole the 2020 presidential election. the european union must continue to apply sanctions in an active manner against all those associated with and supporting the lukashenka regime. and lukashenko himself is to be put on a special tribunal with putin. we must also give greater support to the belarusian opposition and to belarusians who have been forced to leave their country because of constant persecution and threats.
madam president, we are dealing with a peculiar propaganda phenomenon. lukashenko’s regime dragged belarus into the war against ukraine, but claims the opposite. even in this house, we sometimes hear that lukashenko is not at war, or at least not yet. he has been involved in the conventional full—scale war from the very beginning: granting soil, air and logistics to the russians, allowing them to attack the northern territories of ukraine. now he is preparing a secret mobilisation in belarus, motivated by military readiness checks. he has given his security forces full authority to carry out detentions, prohibit movement, listen to conversations and enter people’s homes without hindrance. thus, we can expect a new wave of repressions against the people of belarus, or possibly even a new migration wave. the european union’s response has to be based on sanctions, and we need them fast. we don’t have to wait for more belarussian dictator’s provocative actions. to justify those actions, lukashenko makes up lies that ukraine and nato are planning an invasion to belarus. he is simply lying to his own people. the speaker used a slogan in a non—official language. stop lying, batka.
thank you, chairman. when the cannon fires, "inter arma silent musae", as the romans used to say. in the face of crises, culture is often neglected, and a concerted effort is needed to revive cultural life. paradoxically, it was the war that returned us to the ukrainian culture, its unique self-concept marked by a fateful existence between the brutal east and the civilized west. russia is no longer great, its culture is bankrupt and degraded, there are instincts of self-destruction and the world around it. ukraine naturally fills that gap. the deep cultural experience of ukraine is pouring in with a great force that we have long neglected to notice. ukraine is not afraid of its own harsh civilizational experiences, which we in europe are already used to fearing, because we recognize ourselves as yesterday, as those who were drowned in wars and conflicts, and as those we no longer want to be. in the face of continued russian aggression, ukrainian culture is fighting for its survival. the scale of the terror against it is difficult to fathom, as it is an attempt to destroy everything that tells the story of ukraine as a sovereign nation. he was a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'lugansk people's republic'. in the temporarily occupied territories, cultural heritage is being despicably destroyed, museums are being looted, books are being burned, artifacts are being looted and declared russian property. these crimes must be documented, and they must be dealt with in conjunction with unesco. without our help, it will be difficult for a country ravaged by a brutal war to maintain its cultural heritage and a full cultural life. this shall be done at member state level. for example, lithuania supports ukrainian creators who have found refuge here, but efforts at european level must be more important. the fight against culture must not only be directed at the wider european dimension, but also, in certain cases, at its use as a tool for disinformation. therefore, existing initiatives for cultural recovery should not only be maintained but also complemented by new instruments. support schemes must be clear and easily accessible.
thank you, chairman. the increasing contribution of european union funds to the funding of ukrainian scientists is to be welcomed. the maria skłodowska-kiurie foundation for support of ukrainian science recently provided €25 million in support for doctoral students and young scientists. the entry into force of the association agreement between ukraine and horizon europe and euratom has increased the opportunities for ukrainian scientists to seek funding for project activities. however, according to various estimates, between 26 and 52 thousand scientists may leave ukraine due to the war. much of the country's research infrastructure is in complete disrepair. the most basic equipment is lacking, books, laptops, access to electronic academic resources. it is necessary to provide scholarships for ukrainian scientists to conduct experimental research in foreign universities. as a representative of the academic world myself, i fully understand the importance of publishing scientific articles in the most prestigious journals in the world, which is vital to maintain the level of higher education institutions in ukraine. publishing costs authors, and those costs are necessary and can be reduced. it is good to know that the lithuanian science council in march provided up to 100 scholarships for ukrainian scientists to work in lithuania, but this is a small amount. support, and more, must be provided at eu level. this is necessary to preserve higher education in ukraine and to prevent the brain drain. and of course, let's skip the red tape on the design applications. just imagine a scientist doing that while bombs are exploding all around you. and it's not a figment of your imagination. it's a very common occurrence.
thank you, mr president, mr commissioner, i really congratulate you on this initiative and your support for ukrainian scientists. and i think that colleagues have laid out the facts here about what is wrong with ukrainian science, what is wrong with ukrainian scientists, how infrastructure is being destroyed and what help is needed both now and in the future to rebuild ukraine after the war. but i want to draw your attention to one fact. the russian invasion of ukraine by putin has also affected the people of belarus, especially those who have resisted the lukashenka regime, which has supported putin's aggression. and this year alone, 150 scientists were fired from the belarusian state university. perhaps we could, thinking not only about ukraine, but about the consequences of this aggression against ukraine in the background, include at least those scientists from belarus who have withdrawn from the european union. and that they can also join european science and receive support. thank you. thank you.
thank you, mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, i actually agree with the statement that we have to overcome the war in ukraine that putin's russia has caused and the consequences that ukrainians are suffering, losing their lives, and europeans are suffering from the increase in energy and food prices. in fact, some here have spoken of the need to agree to negotiations, to peace. the best peace is if the ukrainians win. we got word today that with the support of the european union, the russians are also withdrawing, putin's russians are withdrawing from kherson and the ukrainians are continuing to occupy their lands. but at the same time we have to help our own citizens, where putin also wants to divide the european unity, and that people take to the streets against his government. we have to take those measures that have been mentioned here. and minimum wages, and price controls, and compensation for heating, and global warming, so that european citizens really feel supported by the european union and help ukraine to continue to fight for our european values.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your time. racism is a shame. i welcome the commission's determination to continue its work on the elimination of racial discrimination. the european continent, which survived the holocaust, cannot tolerate any discrimination on grounds of sex, orientation, colour or nationality. now europe is also suffering from putin's brutal military aggression, but outside of military aggression, we see a huge amount of propaganda, putin's propaganda, directed against the ukrainian people. some far-right forces are trying to exploit the social hatred against war refugees and spread that propaganda. i believe, commissioner, that we must continue to strengthen our anti-discrimination forces in our daily work, but also pay more attention to education, so that our younger generation understands that we can all live in peace and unity in europe.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. world diabetes day is a reminder of what we have not done or have done too little to fight diabetes, as well as other chronic diseases. and the schemes to combat them are actually similar, from reducing the impact of healthy lifestyles and risk factors to standardising the quality of treatment across countries. in 2012, the european parliament proposed a strategy to combat diabetes, and the number of people with diabetes has only increased since then. diabetes is associated with other chronic diseases, with covid-19, it is complicated by this disease, and an important key factor is obesity. i think that sharing good practice is not enough. i would emphasise the prevention programmes at european level, early diagnosis, the creation of national registers and a common european register. the issue of obesity needs to be more widely included in the horizon programme. and in europe, i think it's time to declare an obesity epidemic. without waiting for another pandemic to hit us. then the talk of a european health union will no longer be a mere opportunity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his excellent report, which i hope will be adopted. but colleagues also mentioned how dangerous such attacks on critical infrastructure are for the european union, how many such attempts have been made, the cases of germany and others. but we also see how putin is using attacks on infrastructure to wage war on ukraine and to push the ukrainian people into a really cold winter and put their lives at great risk. ladies and gentlemen, i think we should all support this decision and particularly watch how it is implemented, both at the level of the european union and in the member states. because i believe that only by working together and using common funds can we protect this infrastructure. i agree that infrastructure is expanding, particularly in the food and health sectors, because i think these areas have proven to be particularly important during both the pandemic and the war. thank you. thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, we have a good report on the significance of enlargement. the report is very clear in its most important message. enlargement is the most effective eu foreign policy instrument, and enlargement should be brought back to an ambitious and dynamic track like it was with enlargement towards central europe. the later so-called enlargement fatigue, especially to eastern partnership region, was a big mistake, and one of the reasons why putin decided that he can start a war against ukraine. it’s good that the eu leadership started to learn the lessons from the mistakes of the past. josep borrell recently in this house openly recognised that until the war the eu had no proper policy towards ukraine because that policy was subordinated to the policy towards russia, and policy towards russia was absent because the eu was very heavily dependent on russian gas. now this dependency is gone. it’s good that recently we have heard ambitious statements about enlargement towards ukraine, moldova and western balkans, made by ursula von der leyen and josep borrell and olaf scholz. it would be even better if such ambition would be demonstrated also by eu institutions and by member states. i do not understand the reasons why the eu could not start negotiations with ukraine and moldova in the middle of next year. let us bring back the hope to our neighbours that the eu was able to wake up from its geopolitical laziness and i am absolutely sure that those neighbours will deliver major reforms of their countries. that is how enlargement can bring peace and prosperity for the whole european continent.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. there has been talk of expansion fatigue since the great expansion of 2004. i'd say i'm tired of not growing. the whole arsenal of ingenious signals to the countries on the periphery of europe that you are close but still a candidate has probably been exhausted. the world's patience is not limitless, and then we wonder why the world is becoming eurosceptic, gravitating towards dangerous players like russia or china. the granting of candidate status to ukraine and moldova was a positive step, a clearer perspective needs to be provided to sakharov, and above all, the pace is lacking in giving them access to the single market, not just political but also in providing effective financial support through the ipa instrument, offering economic and investment plans based on digital and sustainable transition, innovation. the aggressive war being waged by russia in ukraine is not an excuse for delaying the process of development, but on the contrary, it forces the renewal of development policy, making it more flexible and dynamic.
mr president, dear colleagues, we in the european union need to understand we also are at the war, that is why we need to move from ad hoc decisions to systemic decisions. you cannot win the war without weapons and without war finances, properly and systemically established. we are still not able to deliver finances what we promised at the beginning of this year and that is shameful for the european union. in the eu we cannot finance war finance from the regular normal multiannual budget. we need special arrangements, including on eur 18 billion for 2023. today it is important for to push for, first of all, a significant first disbursement in january. second, to fix eur 18 billion as our clear promise, not just ‘up to eur 18 billion’. third, we need to ask the commission to coordinate with international partners to cover the rest, as fiscal deficit of ukraine for 2023 is 38 billion. and the last point, on reconstruction, the eu has to establish its own resource similar to next generation 2.0 for ukraine and to push for russian assets confiscation to cover the increasing needs for ukraine’s recovery, which are approaching one trillion euros.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, with russia's aggressive war in ukraine, there is no longer any doubt that ukraine will need substantial and sustained financial support for a long time. it is a pity that russia continues to destroy ukraine's critical infrastructure in a barbaric and deliberate manner, without even touching on the issue of rebuilding the country, but only on the maintenance of at least the minimum vital needs. i therefore believe that the macro-financial assistance measure is welcome, it is necessary. i hope that all the necessary steps will not only be taken urgently, which is what is most needed now, but that a continuing structure will be found to ensure stable financial support. the support should, of course, be linked to a transparency assessment, which would not only help ukraine to further strengthen the rule of law and good governance, but also encourage the involvement of as many international partners as possible. we must maintain our unity and unwavering support - financial, humanitarian and, of course, military - because only then will we be able to resist the terrorism being perpetrated by russia.
the author. mr president, mr commissioner, and colleagues. the criminal lukashenka regime in belarus continues to intensify repression against any critic of the authorities. there are already over 1,400 political prisoners in this country, over 1,400 people in prison just for wanting to express their opinions and not being afraid to do so. the european union must remain united and continue to put pressure on the regime. the forthcoming sanctions package should harmonise sanctions on russia and belarus to prevent russia from using lukashenka's assistance to circumvent existing restrictions. the creation of a special international tribunal for russian war crimes in ukraine requires the urgent inclusion of collaborators from other countries, such as lukashenko, who allowed the use of belarusian territory for war crimes against ukraine, in its jurisdiction. the european union must continue to support the democratic opposition in belarus, increase systematic cooperation with it, and promote its strengthening and unification so that, once the dictator in belarus has been finally overthrown, the opposition forces can start building a modern and democratic belarus.
mr president, colleagues, there is the war criminal and usurper lukashenko, and there are the people of belarus on the other side. thousands of them are imprisoned; most of them are silenced in captivity, but it will not always be like this. belarus will be free because ukraine will win. that is why the kastuś kalinoŭski regiment is fighting on the ukrainian front against russia, and that is why president-elect sviatlana tsikhanouskaya and other leaders of the belarusian people are working actively through diplomatic means. both war criminals, putin and lukashenko, will be convicted in a special tribunal. i believe that in my lifetime, belarus, a nation with the honourable european history, will become part of the eu family. however, before that, lukashenko and putin have to be completely isolated and the eu has to continue to support the democratically elected leaders of belarus, who are the real representatives of the people of belarus. (the speaker used a slogan in a non-eu language)
mr president, mr commissioner, in fact, if we are to provide good care for our patients, we must have three things: specialists, instruments and patient confidence. today we're talking about tools that we can use to treat patients. i would urge the commission not to reduce quality standards but to reduce the bureaucracy that today burdens our medical device manufacturers and sometimes prevents the quality and quantity of products from being guaranteed. i would invite all of us to make a concerted effort to reduce bureaucracy, to achieve a production boom in the european union, to ensure that patients and doctors have the medical devices they need, but at the same time to actually reduce the bureaucracy that is lagging behind, and thus, without delaying the further implementation of our decisions, to have a changed situation by 2024.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your time. indeed, sustainable mobility is crucial to safeguarding mobility itself in the european union and to safeguarding our natural environment without polluting it. but it is also important to enable european citizens to move freely and to ensure that they can do so in time and have the possibility to move freely in our space. but i would also like to stress that it is particularly important in applying these rules to create the right working conditions for those who work in aviation, because flights on time are a means of rest. this should be regulated and guaranteed not only in our legislation but also in practice.
the rapporteur, the commissioner, the honourable member, the president. indeed, we have just been talking about the importance of aviation, but railways are just as important or can even replace them in many cases as more environmentally friendly means of transport and enable europeans to travel from one part of the european union to another. i want to really emphasize that environmental aspect, safety and modernity, digitization, that was also mentioned here. but investment in this sector is also very important. and i want to highlight one of the projects that is coming that could be a very successful example. this is the rail baltica project, which links like an axis the north and the south, where we can travel from the very northern part of the european union to the south and combine the possibilities of both travel for passengers, with a special emphasis on the possibility for young people to reach different places in the european union. i would also like to stress the possibility of including our candidate countries, such as ukraine, in these projects, so that they can be integrated into the common european area even more quickly.
madam president, dear colleagues, georgia belongs in europe. it was torn away from europe by force by soviet russia. today, 20% of its territory is still under russian occupation. the remaining bloodstained dividing lines in europe imposed by stalin and hitler must be erased. georgia’s membership of the eu is the best way to achieve it. i am convinced that georgia will be a member of the european union. the georgian people deserve it. i am also sure that eu enlargement makes the eu stronger, including its security. however, i am not sure if bidzina ivanishvili, who is holding georgia hostage, is aiming for the same as the georgian people. the georgian authorities know very well what they have to do. all is written in the recommendation of the commission and they have to do it without manipulations or pretence. keeping the seriously—ill former president mikhail saakashvili in prison is not a european value. torturing people is putin’s policy. i call on the georgian authorities, including the president, to do everything so that the issue of mikhail saakashvili’s life does not fall on their conscience.
chairman, the honorable member for the committee. in fact, it was said: georgia is an important partner for us and the georgian people have repeatedly stated that they choose the european path. however, as the commissioner said, the cartel is high for georgia and we expect georgia to implement the 12 recommendations. we can note that georgia is making some progress, especially in the fight against corruption, in the area of digital security. but it must be stressed that the rule of law, the implementation of democracy, the rights of a free press are far from what we would like. i would also like to stress that on humanitarian grounds we should absolutely demand that former president saakashvili be given access to independent medical care. georgia should work towards consolidating society and focus joint efforts on implementing reforms. i have asked the commission to step up administrative assistance for these reforms.
mr. chairman, i'll repeat what i've already said here. the european union is beginning to tire of enlargement policy. and the usual example is the denial of the candidate status to sakartvel. and according to polls, as many as 75 percent of the people in sacartavella are in favor of european integration. you don't even see these numbers in many of the oldest cities in the european union. since 2016, saakashvili has made significant efforts to implement the economic, human rights and anti-corruption reforms envisaged in the association agreement and has been one of the leaders in the eastern partnership. on 3 march, following the outbreak of the russian aggressive war in ukraine, sakharov applied for membership of the european union. but all they have got is the european perspective that was adopted in june this year. it's too little positive news. and sending positive signals from europe to the democratic development of sacar-wale is of the utmost importance. by giving it and other countries new tasks to do, let us ask ourselves whether we are really widening our circle of friends, whether we are not making ourselves look worse or increasing our euroscepticism. political commitments to each other must always be bilateral. by rightly demanding progress from others, we must also make progress ourselves, sending a clearer, more positive message to sackartwell. of course, i'm joining the ranks of those who have spoken out against president saakashvili.
thank you, chairman. the interference of third countries in european democratic processes is evident and sufficiently effective. the thematic areas in which foreign countries seek to influence europe illegally are wide and still expand, from disinformation during the covid-19 pandemic to propaganda and distortion of facts about russia's war in ukraine. there is also clear and direct interference by russia and other third countries in political and public campaigns. there has been much talk about readily available and functional tools to counter propaganda and unauthorized foreign interference. the documentation package for the defence of democracy is still in its early stages. but more stringent measures must be taken quickly. invest in awareness raising. educate the public, apply without delay the already existing legal instruments, which have been mentioned several times. there are still media outlets that are working to justify russia's actions, and we've already declared it a state sponsor of terrorism. so let's be consistent, expose the sources of funding and shut down those channels. and the responsibility of the kremlin's friends. all citizens of the european union serving foreign entities for illegal gain and political movements financed by such entities must be investigated, exposed and stopped.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture. thank you, chairman. commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to welcome the initiative of parliament to review the multiannual financial perspective. the events of the past year have changed our world and it is appropriate to adjust the decisions taken in the past. ensuring food security and european autonomy in this area are of particular importance. putin's russian war against ukraine has created a serious threat to food systems. another very important aspect is our fight against climate change. the 'fit for 55' package should be linked to the multiannual financial perspective. the budget also needs to be revised in view of the rapidly rising prices. particular account should be taken of the situation of young farmers and smallholders. the war has the greatest impact on those countries that are close to the front lines. the ability of farmers to secure food supplies is also strongly affected by differences in cap payments. the eastern member states with the lowest farmers' payments are the ones most affected by the war in ukraine. we should show european solidarity and fulfil the old promises: to guarantee our eastern european farmers an average level of direct payments.
madam president, colleagues. i would like to say a few words about the major message of the report. and that message is very simple: we are living in a time of war, but not with our finances, since the mff was planned and approved for permanent peace. we need to understand that this war is also our war, and it demands from us mobilisation of all of our resources. in order to win the war, you need to have in order your army and also your finances. you need to have sufficient war finances. we need to finance arms deliveries to ukraine, the budgetary needs of ukraine, the reconstruction of ukraine, the accession of ukraine and other new candidate countries towards the eu. the report’s main message is clear: the mff’s structure and size is not able to meet the needs of the war and also the needs of other big crises, urgencies. why is this so? the report speaks very clearly, i quote, ‘parliament regrets the gradual decrease of the eu budget as a percentage of eu gross national income and the excessive focus on capping overall spending at roughly 1% of eu gni’. this is a most important message. we cannot stay with 1% because at the end it will bring the whole eu into very painful crisis of its own finances. we need to avoid it. this crisis of the war is a good occasion for us to strengthen ourselves from a geo-political point of view and also radically strengthen our finances. this is the only way we can make the eu strong again.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, colleagues, commissioner, of course, the best humanitarian assistance to ukraine would be more arms deliveries – guns, guns, guns – because this is the only way this war can be ended in the near future. and the war brings humanitarian catastrophe to all the people of ukraine. i would like to make just two comments on the humanitarian assistance issue, and what we need to do as the eu. really, the eu is doing a lot, but i would say we need to stop talking about how much we did and how much we delivered – for example, 1 000 or whatever generators. we need to ask what the needs of ukraine are – and for generators, 25 000 are needed – and how we are going to cover the difference between what is needed and what is delivered. that’s, i think, one of the most important issues for us. i would also like to see the eu coordinating the efforts of all the citizens of the eu who want to assist ukraine. and in each village or city of the eu, everybody should know the phone number of the eu coordinator. secondly, i would like to suggest the same idea as president zelenskyy proposed at the very beginning of the war: that each eu member state should take patronage of an individual region of ukraine – for example, estonia for zhytomyr, lithuania for lutsk, and so on – and take care of the humanitarian assistance to that region especially. in order to achieve that, the eu needs to take the role of effective coordination between the eu member states and the regions of ukraine. we can do more!
mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, unfortunately, we see again that currently russia is ruled by criminal regime, ready to use any form of violence against any target in order to reach its imperialistic goals. it is a crime against humanity to target civilian objects and to try to freeze millions ukrainians by that. these criminal genocide attacks and all those who ordered it and implemented these orders, must be prosecuted by newly established international special tribunal. what can we do to help to solve this dire situation for millions of ukrainians? yes, we must send thousands of heaters and generators. we must send equipment to fix damaged networks. we must be ready for the possible new wave of the war refugees from ukraine, who decide to run from the cold. but the most important thing is to make sure that such damage does not happen again. and this is possible only by sending the most modern air defence system to ukraine and by continuous military equipment to the ukrainian army. slava ukraini!
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, i agree with the commission that europe has to do more to protect its critical infrastructure. unfortunately, for too long, european union countries were naive to believe that business interests alone will protect its valuable assets. russian war in ukraine showed that in time of the war, criminal regimes are ready to attack the critical infrastructure even if that hurts their own economic interests. yes, the commission should identify critical infrastructure, but the member states must increase their efforts to protect it. it is the member states who have the means to do that. unfortunately, some eu member states, for economic or political reasons, are still too relaxed and ready to cooperate with the criminal regimes. for a long time, from this podium, they have been telling germany also that its addiction to the cheap russian gas is dangerous. now we see the consequence. similar mistake hungary is doing now by continuing its nuclear power station projects with rosatom. in my view, a similar mistake was done by selling ownership of the eu ports to the chinese companies. in times of conflict, these companies will become trojan horses on the eu soil. the eu should diversify its energy sources. it also must agree on the rules that stakes of its critical infrastructure companies cannot be sold to the state or private actors from non—democratic regimes. we also should work on the better physical protection of our critical infrastructure objects, including the necessary military means.
