the final speaker on behalf of the political groups was mr fabio massimo castaldo. i would like to thank you very much, mr president, for the excellent cooperation you have had in the bureau over the years and for your work, and i wish you all the best. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you all very much. it is with great anguish that we comment on what is happening in hong kong as we see it increasingly succumbing to the determined blows of beijing, which is relentlessly and with almost scientific method attacking and restricting the freedom of the media, civil society and international organizations, leaving little doubt about its ultimate goal. we have very few tools to support hong kong in this unlikely contest and that is why we must make the best of them. we must raise this issue in all diplomatic meetings, both bilateral and multilateral, and we must not hesitate to use the trade leverage to achieve concrete results. we must also get strong, targeted sanctions as soon as possible, as called for in the resolution we are voting on, and make it clear that approval of the investment agreement can never happen until there are also clear signs of improvement in the situation in hong kong and in human rights in general. the economic and political pressure from china is tremendous, but that is precisely why we need our solidarity and our common purpose to protect those who no longer have a voice today, because the europe we want, the europe we are fighting for, can never be a europe that is strong with the weak and weak with the strong.
mr president, this week the world economic forum began and one of the key speakers there - who was also allowed to open it - was the chinese leader, mr xi. i have to be honest with you, i found it incomprehensible that this dictator was brought in as the keynote speaker at that world economic forum. because china under mr xi is a rogue state, and i hope especially that mr pineda and mr wallace will take note of that. mr xi is fully active in strangling hong kong's democracy. you know, the uighurs, the tibetans, the falun gong, the christians. they have no life in china. and the chinese government is also engaged in large-scale organ harvesting. have you read the entire report from the chinatribunal? you must do! organ theft. on a large scale. under the leadership of mr. xi. and then, of course, taiwan. every day, taiwan is threatened. you're aware of that? through the air, over the sea... i hope you will think about it, mr pineda, when it comes to china as a rogue state. so , what do you say ? i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his excellent report. but there is one measure that is needed: a boycott, a diplomatic boycott of the winter olympics. it's going to affect them. they lose their prestige. so please support the resolution, because it says so clearly. and it's not just about companies. i hope that you, as a consumer, will also think about what you are buying, because if it says "made in china", i try not to buy it. and as a consumer, think about that. don't buy things from china. think about that for a moment!
mr president, the struggle for human rights and democracy everywhere in the world is interconnected, and never more so than now in globalization. that is why the european union is concerned about the deterioration of the human rights and freedoms situation in hong kong; because it implies respect for the agreement, at the time, between the people's republic of china and the then eu member state, the united kingdom, for hong kong to be integrated into the sovereignty of one china, but under the principle 'one country, two systems', which has been flagrantly violated in recent times with the arbitrary detention of more than 150 human rights activists, the restriction of the margin of representation and the abusive imposition of the national security law. it is not within the power of this european parliament to review the situation in hong kong, but it is within the power of this european parliament to support, as the group of parliamentarians who are part of hong kong watch in this european parliament wants, the action of strategic autonomy which must be led by high representative borrel so that we do not go from the cold war to the hot war, neither in hong kong, nor in taiwan, nor in ukraine, nor anywhere else in the world.
mr president, the resolution on the violations of fundamental freedoms in hong kong which was tabled in the european parliament today follows on from many others denouncing the repression of the democratic opposition in hong kong, including imprisonment. it also follows on from the statements by the high representative and representatives of the european union external action service, as well as the presidents of the council and the commission, thus demonstrating the consistency and unity of the european union's position on the matter. we promised those in hong kong who stood up for freedom and democracy that we would not forget them. we continue to deliver on that promise today by reaffirming that china is bound to abide by the commitments and obligations it has under international law, as enshrined in the sino-british declaration in the case of hong kong. in this resolution, parliament also condemned the changes to the electoral system which prevented democratic voting, the continuing shrinking of the space for civil society, the dissolution of many ngos and trade unions, including teachers and lawyers, the disappearance of press organisations and the attempt to erase the memory of the events of tiananmen square by prohibiting the honouring of the demonstrators killed in 1989. and i could go on and on. in conclusion, i would like to say that we can never accept the international challenge to the universal declaration of human rights, just as we do not accept attempts to redefine these same rights or the principles of democracy by china or any other country or body. finally, the news has forced us to reflect on this and i would like to point out that in this resolution of the european parliament we are calling on the commission, the council and the member states to decline invitations to government representatives to attend the 2022 olympic winter games in beijing.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. that is correct: in the face of the changed geopolitical situation, the eu must take greater responsibility for its own security. however, the basic line of this report on defence and security policy is questionable. the impression is given that more european sovereignty means, above all, the rapid expansion of the eu's military capabilities and capabilities. that's a problematic military logic. i want to make a quick point about the financing. it is rightly noted that eu countries together spend 395 billion euros a year on defence. unfortunately, what they don't mention is that it's about half of what the united states spends. and it also fails to mention that this is more than six times what russia spends on defense and more than china and russia spend combined. nevertheless, the report calls for further increases in defence spending. certainly credible deterrence will continue to matter in the future. we see this in the current conflict with russia. but peace and security in europe are only to be shared. the security interests of all european states must be taken into account. that includes ukraine, of course, but it also includes russia. this aspect of the europeanisation of security and defence policy is much too lacking in the report. this is a pity, because it is precisely in this area that the eu could make a very important contribution.
madam president, china’s gratitude to russia’s military manoeuvres against ukraine must be endless. xi jinping knows that if putin wins on ukraine, china can finally march on to taiwan. and putin, he’s endlessly grateful for all the support he gets from beijing. china does not criticise, as they both have a common rival: the west – the eu, nato and its allies. what we see here is nothing less than a battle between autocracy versus democracy. ukraine is about who’s in charge of the world’s order. so there’s little doubt what the west, nato, the eu and our allies around the world must do. we need to rethink our security posture fast. now, today in strasbourg, we vote on two important reports, which give appreciation of this new geopolitical reality. first, by strengthening our most powerful weapon, which is a common united position on the world stage. and secondly, by building a european pillar in nato. the gratitude of our citizens and future generations will be endless if executed well.
mr. president, cyber attacks are being carried out on the ukrainian ministry of defense and on ukrainian banks. the circumstances and the pressure to take the necessary steps quickly in the field of our common security and defence policy have never been more acute than they are now. the need for a strong national defence is becoming more and more clear. today's crisis, which is the result of russian aggression against eastern partnership countries, has once again clearly exposed the pain points: too little unity, too little capacity and too much dependence. but it has done so in a way that immediately calls for greater willingness and commitment on its part. the us and nato are important partners and the usefulness of good transatlantic relations can hardly be called a sore point in these times of crisis. i would like to point out in this connection that parliamentary diplomacy can also be important, as is shown by the transatlantic legislators' statement, which was signed a few days ago by both european and american parliamentarians, including some of us, as a declaration of principle supporting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine.
madam president, europe is on the brink of war – closer to a major escalation than we’ve ever been since the peak of the cold war. the next days and weeks will tell if we were successful against bullying and threats from russia and putin. europe faces russia and china as the two main aggressive competitors wherever we look in the world. it is very important for us to stand our ground globally, defend our interests, help and assist our partners. europe’s defence starts from europe. we need more investments into defence, closer co-operation to overcome the technology gap, better co-ordination of our resources – be it in intelligence, military planning or mobility. we cannot afford security and defence budget cuts similar to the current multiannual financial framework – i consider this extremely irresponsible.
madam president, we need a better common european framework that could enable the union to act on defence, security and foreign policy. the current treaty has given the eu the possibility to have a bigger impact at global level, but we are not using the existing potential for cooperation within the union, with nato and our strategic external partners. we need to reinforce the european capacity on several levels, including cyber—threats and cyber—security, while at the same time deploy the necessary measures that could ensure the protection of all our members and our external borders. the schengen enlargement towards romania, bulgaria and croatia is therefore needed. the current situation in ukraine and the black sea needs an adequate and common answer from the union, in terms of defence and security actions, but also in deploying an efficient sanctions regime and protecting potential refugees. we need to learn faster from what didn’t work, enhance the elements that proved efficient, and use the momentum of the conference for the future of europe to identify the best means to go forward. the key is to build synergies involving all member states, and not replicate what already exists.
the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. we live in a period of tectonic upheaval and increasing geopolitical uncertainty in international politics, as evidenced by numerous crises. the european union's external security and defence policy must have acceptable solutions to the growing problems, and the challenge is, unfortunately, growing. as the world looks to the russian-ukrainian border, we must also keep in mind the many other hot spots in the foreign policy world. i also take this opportunity to recall numerous examples of hybrid actions of disinformation and propaganda. these are all dangers that have been looming over the european space. we must also focus on the increasingly complex situation in the western balkans, which like a litmus test paints a picture of the wider geopolitical trends. the european union must re-legitimize itself as a global actor through clear and decisive responses. mr. commissioner, yes, and it must have the signature of a power policy.
madam president, 2022 was declared by charles michel as the year of european defence. i hope that it will advance our geopolitical ambitions with the adoption of the eu’s strategic compass and making a new cyber defence policy a reality. another great step forward would be considering qualified-majority decision making for some aspects of our common foreign and security policy. this cannot remain the weakest link of our integration, often misused by our global competitors with different values. i appreciate the particular focus on the western balkans in both reports. eu-related reforms and a clear enlargement perspective for these countries should be our foreign policy priority and not a side policy. to conclude, it’s time for the eu to use its economic and diplomatic leverage to move from soft to smart power. only a strong and united eu can be a geopolitical actor for peace, human security, sustainable development, and lead by example globally.
chairman of the afco committee. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the contribution of the committee on constitutional affairs to the reports is divided into three main points. firstly, the union must improve its capacity to respond to crises in a rapidly changing global context, in other words, we need more courage from europe. secondly, greater efforts are needed to combat disinformation, including from third countries, which is having a negative impact on the political debate in europe and in the member states. thirdly, we must strengthen the control of the union's external action by this parliament, through consultation with the high representative and vice-president and the commission. parliament, together with the other institutions, is committed to the protection of democracy by means of election observation missions and all instruments of parliamentary diplomacy. we hope that the conference on the future of europe will be an opportunity to strengthen the role of the european union in the world. why did i say it takes more courage? we're on the right track, but we need to speed up the timing. a common european defence also means that the defence costs of individual member states can be reduced. today, the united states spends $778 billion, and china, official figures, but probably more, $252 billion. europe is in third place with 230 billion, but it's the spending of the different countries. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. since we are part of a western system, we also want to see that in foreign policy, as was once said, we can act by waving the flag, that is to say, when ships are in front of the ports of countries with which we are at odds, we show strength. we have also been able to do more, and perhaps we could have done more, on the ukraine issue, but we have given a strong signal which has led to a situation today which is slightly better than yesterday, but if we had not been strong russia would probably have taken further steps forward. of course, there's the whole defense industry thing. i was commissioner for industry and i believe that this sector is fundamental, not only for military aspects but also for aspects of security protection in general. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have seen how useful military interventions have been in this fight against the coronavirus. a european army, a european defence system, could have done even more. so let's look to the future.
vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, thank you, and thank you all, honourable members, for the interventions. i hope that the member states have been listening to you, and i hope that you have convinced them. thank you for your support on trying to make a stronger security policy and stronger european union defence. i believe that after listening to all of you, that we could agree that the landscape for our external action is more complicated both within our borders and further afield, and that the fundamental principles of our security architecture are being questioned in a way that the european union should not and will not accept. i understand that you claim that we need to forge alliances with like—minded partners to increase our autonomy that is nothing compared with the strength of nato. on the contrary, strengthening our unity and our defence capabilities will also strengthen the atlantic union, the atlantic alliance. i agree with you that we need to keep working on fighting the covid pandemic, on the climate, to ensure that democratic principles continue to guide developments and on the use of new disruptive technologies; that we need to continue working to ensure safe and orderly migration, working and investing in partnerships with countries of origin and transit; that we have on energy to work with others on the diversification of routes and sources of supply, especially in these times, and that we need to help our partners to develop renewable forms of energy, especially in oil and gas producing countries, and especially also in countries that don’t have these natural resources. you have to treat these transversal topics as real core foreign policy. we cannot go jumping from one crisis to another, from the coup d’état de la semaine to the crisis of the following month, but taking energy, climate diplomacy, technological diplomacy, migration as already common themes together with the cyber—diplomacy and migration diplomacy. we are preparing the external action service to be able to deal with these global issues. it is not just the geographical approach, but this kind of transversal approach, because the world of tomorrow is being framed by intended events, and mainly these intended events are related with crisis, but unintended events, which are not in our capacity to avoid – which is the climate transformation – and a third one, which is technological transformation, which is intended certainly, because it has something coming from the humankind mind and spirit, but it is going to change completely the political landscape. the geopolitical landscape will be completely changed by these two factors – climate and technology, and these are not related with the crisis of the week, but to this deep transformation of our world. and we will continue, and enhance, our work on these fields. believe me, we will not spare efforts for any challenge. the work will continue this year. thank you very much for your contributions and your cooperation.
rapporteur. – madam president, it’s up to me to conclude this debate now. i would like to thank all colleagues for this open and constructive debate, which lasted more than two hours. i believe it is a strong signal that most of the colleagues i listened to in this house act in concert towards a stronger common foreign and security policy. the challenges of the 21st century call for more, not less, eu action on the global scene. these challenges call for more, not less, multilateral governance and rules-based international cooperation. we just heard the high representative conclude our debate. i believe that also we should make our eu common foreign and security policy more efficient, more coherent, more flexible and at the same time, democratic, accountable and transparent. achieving leadership as the european union in international affairs in the end requires a strong will and decisive steps in 2022, such as the eu strategic compass. i sincerely hope that this will have significant added value for our common foreign and security policy and solidarity among member states. once again, thank you so much, also on behalf of nathalie loiseau, for this interesting debate. and now we can move on to the next point of order.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, february 16, 2022. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. recent international developments, multidimensional challenges and the rapidly changing geopolitical environment have accelerated existing trends affecting key aspects of the cfsp and the csdp, exposed the eu's vulnerability to external events and pressures and highlighted the need for stronger, more ambitious, credible, strategic and unified eu action on the global stage. there is no such thing as a strong eu without a strong single defence, security and euro-army. it is no coincidence that the treaties of the european union, the treaty of amsterdam, the treaty of lisbon and the helsinki summit of 1999 all provided for defence and security and even called for the creation of a rapid reaction force of 60,000 soldiers. for this reason, it is inconceivable and unacceptable today, without a common defence and security, for member states of the european union to continue to sell arms to countries which violate human rights and the sovereignty of member states of the european union, such as greece and cyprus. it is inconceivable to me that the european union should not only not impose sanctions on turkey, which continues to provoke in the mediterranean, but also continue to give it financial support, to finance it and even to consider it a partner.
the next item is the report by mrs maría soraya rodríguez ramos, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's action in this field annual report 2021 (2021/2181 (ini)) (a9-0353/2021). i have to remind you that during this part-session there will be no requested speeches or blue card questions. i would also point out that, as in the recent partsession, the speakers can be reached remotely from the liaison offices of the member states. i would also remind you that the speakers in the chamber still use the platform in the centre of the chamber. i urge you to follow the list of speakers and move closer to the podium as your time to speak begins.
the report is the result of two years of unprecedented progress in human rights and democracy in recent history. i would like to begin by thanking all the civil society organisations that have contributed to this report, and my colleagues responsible for this report in the various political groups: thank you very much for your work, your collaboration and your commitment. if 2020 was the year of the global covid-19 emergency, 2021 was a watershed in human rights around the world: more inequality (around 100 million people worldwide have been pushed into extreme poverty); more hunger in the world since 2020 (five years after we have managed to stop the advance of this preventable pandemic); more inequality in access to health (today the photo of the covid-19 vaccination is the photo of inequality. we haven't done enough to ensure that vaccine is a global public good. access to vaccination has been determined by the income of each country; more gender-based violence (one in three women worldwide have been subjected to physical violence); more repression; more harassment; more imprisonment; and more killings of human rights defenders, environmental defenders, journalists; more shrinking of the space for civil society; and more shrinking of the democratic quality. in 2020, for the first time in 20 years, illiberal democracies, dictatorships and authoritarian regimes became a majority across the world. 2021 has confirmed this trend. we can say that the autocratic drift is going viral. coinciding with this drift in the last two years, we have seen how the language of human rights, its universality, is being questioned at the international level. countries like china and russia are spearheading a paradigm shift which, far from protecting the national sovereignty they claim, is based on the legitimization of the law of the strongest, on the denial of the rights of those who do not follow their strict doctrine based on imposition and fear. this authoritarian coalition is aware that it is impossible to change the liberal international order without first weakening our democracies. supporting the key role of democratic civil society, while working with democratic partners in the defence of active multilateralism of international law and human rights, is therefore no longer just a fundamental element, but must be an urgent priority for both the european union and its member states. the european union has a huge responsibility and that is why in this report we reflect on our instruments and on how to improve them. we must strengthen human rights dialogues, which should not be an end in themselves but should be turned to specific results. we must rely much more on civil society. the european union is at the forefront of trade, investment and association agreements, with the inclusion of human rights clauses. but we must ask ourselves to what extent we can talk about real implementation. in this connection, we ask the commission to study the possibility of proportionate penalties in the framework of trade agreements. we are still waiting for an ambitious, binding, due diligence proposal from the commission, and we want the european union to play an active role in the negotiations for a binding treaty on business and human rights at international level, addressing new regulatory frameworks to fight disinformation and monitor the impact of new technologies on human rights. in short, we want to continue to accompany civil society and increase our capacity to denounce all cases of human rights repression. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, once again we have in front of us a very important report. i welcome this report and i thank the rapporteur, soraya rodríguez, and the members of european parliament who have contributed to it. unfortunately, 2021 will not be remembered as a positive year for human rights, democracy or international humanitarian law, and 2022 has already started in quite a turbulent way. as we stand here in this hemicycle in the beautiful town of strasbourg, girls in afghanistan are being prevented from going to school, and human rights defenders are going to jail. in belarus, political prisoners remain locked up and independent media repressed. in myanmar, the military openly ignores the result of democratic elections and spurns the rule of law. in northern ethiopia, a humanitarian emergency is happening before our eyes and human rights abuses and violation of international humanitarian law is widespread. fundamental freedoms are being eroded in many parts of the world. look, for example, at how in russia they are trying to silence memorial or the violations of the rights of the uyghur and other minorities in china. so, we are seeing a lot of attempts to reshape the core principles of human rights, democracy and multilateralism and against this background, the european union has the obligation to show leadership and to act. to act, what does it mean in practice? well, let me cite our human rights defenders’ mechanism ‘protectdefenders.eu’, which has already supported nearly 53 000 human rights defenders at risk and their families since it was launched. some will say, keep this money in your pocket. no. these 53 000 people will be very much thankful for our effort. it’s not enough, but it’s quite important. this mechanism, reinforced by our network of human rights, focal points in our delegations, provides vital support to thousands of human rights defenders. last year, the european union took again the lead in human rights fora to address the most pressing human rights situation in belarus, myanmar, in afghanistan, in ethiopia, with respect to climate change, presenting the creation of a new special rapporteur on climate change and human rights. and then, don’t forget, the global human rights sanctions regime is a landmark achievement that this parliament was calling for. thanks to this mechanism, we adopted restrictive measures targeting individuals and entities in china, in korea, in libya, in south sudan, in eritrea and russia, including in the case of aleksei navalny, and against the wagner group and its members. i think these are important steps that have to be mentioned, and indeed fighting impunity, strengthening the rule of law and closing the accountability gap remains among the main priorities of our new financial framework, the new global europe instrument that will provide eur 80 billion, in a seven—year budgetary term, including a thematic programme on democracy and human rights. that is key to help us to put our political priorities into action. i don’t want to forget citing the european union election observation mission as an integral part of our commitment to defend democracy and promote our values. we will soon deploy new observation missions in colombia, in timor leste and in lebanon. so, a great thanks to all members of the parliament who have been participating and will participate in this mission. finally, but not least, let me mention the gender action plan iii. it is one of our most ambitious political priorities to achieve gender equality and women’s empowerment, and i hope to report progress in our next debate. thank you for your cooperation, thank you for the attention you paid to our work, and i am looking forward to our exchange.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – madam president, i want to talk to about the women and girls in this world, because it’s necessary because women’s rights were violated on a massive scale during the coronavirus pandemic. they were victims of a real shadow pandemic, filled with online and offline violence, and they were at the forefront of our fight against the deadly virus, day-in, day-out. if this health crisis has taught us anything, it is that we must take care of them, and that is why we must step up the fight against violence for peace and freedom. that is why it is our duty to empower and educate all girls. that is why we must take stronger action against femicide, female genital mutilation and other forms of gender—based violence. colleagues, men and women here today, we should all be feminists and fight for it. the time is now.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the fundamental objective of the eu’s external actions is to advance democracy, the rule of law, human rights and freedom across the world. in this, our annual report, we look at how we fulfil that obligation. we look at the advances and the deterioration in human rights and outline how we can improve and where we need to improve our actions. to this point, the report calls for the eu and its member states to better coordinate their efforts to work together with like-minded parties such as the us and the un. europe must lead by example in promoting and protecting human rights. we can do this through dialogue, through trade and development policies, by supporting democratic institutions and supporting free and fair elections and protecting human rights defenders and journalists. we must be more creative in the use of all tools in different areas and with the use of qualified majority voting when it comes to human rights. we see the pandemic has had a disproportionate and negative impact on some areas and particularly the most vulnerable have been hit hardest and/or women and girls. so it is critically important that we continue to support and demand recognition of the rights of women and girls globally. unfortunately, our annual report outlines deep concerns – obstacles to human rights and freedom have happened in 2021 and as the high commissioner has outlined, again starting in 2022. we need to continue to raise the flag, to act, to support and to give voice to human rights violations.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, every year we have a report on the respect for human rights outside the european union. i think that everything has been said and repeated in this room about the violations of human rights in the world. of course, we must denounce violations of human rights of whatever kind. we must raise our voices and protest against all this. we know that citizens in authoritarian regimes often have no choice but to hope that human rights defenders in free countries will take over. when the cries of the victims are no longer heard outside the walls of prisons or torture chambers, it is up to us to mobilize. by conviction, by conscience, by moral duty, all these reasons are justified. this is the visible aspect of the defence of human rights. however, i would like to say a few words today about the hidden side of human rights defence, about the efforts of our leaders, our diplomats and representatives of civil society, who, unknown to everyone, are doing essential work. they intervene and act in secret, behind closed doors, alongside visible and audible efforts with dictators, autocrats and authoritarian leaders to try to alleviate the plight of persecuted and abused people. if they do succeed, the secret diplomats cannot always rejoice or express satisfaction. they must, however, think about defending other victims and take care not to cut off their channels of communication with those responsible for human rights violations. we owe them respect and we must pay them tribute in a debate on this subject.
i now announce the results of the first ballot, which was delivered today, tuesday, february 15, 2022. (the president read out the results of the votes. for more details, see minutes of the sitting.)
we now continue our debate on the report by mrs maría soraya rodríguez ramos on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's action in this field annual report 2021 (a9-0353/2021).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, one cannot be too optimistic regarding the recent evolution of human rights on a global scale. the rise of authoritarianism and backsliding of some democracies are trends that bring with them a backlash against civil society and media voices of dissent and universal values and norms. covid-19 has only reinforced these trends. we know that all authoritarian rulers like to pretend that there are human rights – western style or eastern style or a north or south version of them. but the reality is that there are only universal human rights, all based on human dignity, which is the same in every corner of the globe. and we strive for their protection everywhere, always, with no excuses, with no subjugation to economic or political interests. our report suggests more action and more coherence where we are convinced that the eu could do more – for instance, in trade, migration or support for human rights defenders. one specific request worth mentioning, especially with all the embarrassing news we get every day of new cases being uncovered, is on privacy, data protection and surveillance. we call on the eu to take the lead in support of a global moratorium on the sale, transfer and use of spyware technology, which is so at odds with human rights when used against activists, journalists and opposition figures. in the struggle to uphold human rights universally, the eu and its member states must lead by example or we risk losing credibility. unfortunately, this is still the case all too often, whether in areas of privacy or in other areas where fundamental rights are certainly at stake.
madam president, please. monitoring the situation of human rights and democracy is very important, so it is good that this report has been prepared and that the protection of national minorities has been included. the eu should monitor the fundamental rights of national minorities, especially in partner countries. however, the eu has a double standard in its response to different types of breaches. for example, in ukraine, despite international commitments, the rights of national minorities have been drastically reduced in recent years, and there is a strong process of assimilation. the transcarpathian hungarian minority has repeatedly experienced intimidation, and its representatives have suffered atrocities. the so-called death list of myrotvorets website illegally published the personal data of thousands of people, including my data. this has been condemned by the european parliament and the eu's foreign affairs commissioner, but the site continues to operate. in addition to the positive elements, the report contains a number of unacceptable elements. such as pushing for a shift to qualified majority voting, or urging ratification of the istanbul convention, which enforces gender ideology, or creating new legal migration routes.
madam president, mr high representative, two years ago i said here that what particularly concerned me was the rise of authoritarianism as a political project. unfortunately, we have to see that this movement has grown even more and that authoritarian regimes in the world have now become the majority. these are the places where arbitrariness is most prevalent. it is here that human rights abuses go unpunished, where freedom of speech does not exist and where journalists end up in prison or murdered. we must openly support those who are committed to democracy by all means in our power. aggressive authoritarianism is gangrenous in this land, and it poses a danger not only to faraway lands, but to our own societies, subject to cyberattacks, disinformation and electoral interference, the rise of the far right. the temptation to authoritarianism is an external as well as an internal evil. we must give ourselves the means to defend democracy here and everywhere in the world.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, poland is a great country, one of the largest in our union, and its history speaks volumes about the strong desire of its people for freedom and democracy. that is why we must first of all say in this debate that the first victims of the violations of the rule of law in poland and hungary are the poles and hungarians themselves. it is therefore for these peoples and for the reasons why they joined the union in 2004 that the european commission must now put the budgetary conditionality mechanism into effect in compliance with the rule of law. the rule of law is not an option, it is a condition. a condition for membership of our union and, as the court says, for the enjoyment of all the rights deriving from the treaties. to those in poland, hungary or elsewhere who today test the european union on its values, the answer must be firm, to remind them that there is no european union and no common life possible without the acceptance of a common legal order.
madam president, many of us are celebrating today’s verdict as if it were a bright success for european cooperation. the reality is that today’s decision leads to a dead end. it is an historical mistake to use the european union as a facade to enforce a single ideology. it is unacceptable to undermine the sovereignty of member states, to disregard the division of competences and to force everyone into a leftist ideological straitjacket. this is a political and ideological battle about values. the european left first wanted to force migration upon us, and now they want us to accept lgbtq propaganda in our kindergartens and schools. it is regrettable that the european court of justice, a supposedly independent institution, is now a partner in assisting this federalist onslaught to create a centralised europe. but hungary and poland, and i hope many others, will continue to adhere to the politics of common sense. whether you like it or not, we will continue to protect our borders, our children and our way of life.
madam president, the european union has established the next generation eu fund to counter the devastating economic effects of covid-19. at the end of 2020, we voted on a historic budget, an example of solidarity in the community of the countries of the european union. it is therefore logical that this solidarity implies that union funds are protected and used wisely. many safeguards have been put in place, including the general conditionality regime for the eu budget. it requires respect for the rule of law - in short, it is obvious: it is inconceivable that a country of the union should oppose this requirement. the fact that hungary and poland have brought an action against this conditionality regime therefore seems to indicate above all that these two countries themselves are starting from the principle that they are violating the principles of the rule of law. today's judgment of the court of justice of the european union dismisses the legal actions brought by hungary and poland against the conditionality regime. there is therefore no longer any reason to oppose the initiation of proceedings against countries which do not respect the rule of law. we welcome this victory of democracy. the ultimate aim, however, is obviously not to block funds that would belong to a state, although the states concerned make the changes necessary to respect the rule of law within their institutions. the european union was created to provide an area of freedom, justice and democracy for its citizens. these are the values we defend and continue to defend today for all citizens of the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam rapporteur, allow me first of all to take a minute to express our solidarity with ukraine, to say that as the european union we stand by the ukrainian people. as regards our cooperation in the fields of research and education, i have been clear and i would like to repeat it: we will do everything to support ukrainian researchers or young ukrainians who are involved in erasmus activities and others. i would like to return to the debate on the report by mrs salima yenbou. i would like to thank you, madam rapporteur, but also the fictitious rapporteurs and the members of the committee on culture for the quality of your work. we share the conviction that education is a powerful lever to combat racism and discrimination. education contributes to building a truly inclusive society; and it starts with the schools themselves, as the places where our children are trained, because our schools are the mirrors of our communities. and it is at school that our children learn about life in community. according to your report, ms yenbou, students from different backgrounds should be supported to learn and work together in the same classroom, with a sense of belonging and a capacity for respect and connection. indeed, there is no better barrier against intolerance than the knowledge of the other, the exchange. and it is this evidence that is at the heart of the erasmus+ programme, which has enabled millions of young europeans to experience mobility and learning in another country for 35 years now. it is true that today, with a budget twice as large as in the previous period, the challenge is not to simply do twice as much. we can also use this budget to continue to promote equal opportunities, equality in inclusion and access, diversity and equity in all these actions. so let me also thank the european parliament for the important efforts it has made in this regard. i would also like to point out that erasmus+ already supports many projects that make young europeans aware of the importance of respecting others in their diversity. since 2014, more than 2 800 projects supported by the programme have focused directly, and across europe, on the fight against racism. the challenge may be to raise awareness, to give them more visibility, to build networks, to reach a critical mass that can have a very positive impact on society as a whole. it is also true that the lack of inclusion in schools, especially school segregation, does not allow all children to feel a sense of belonging or to benefit from quality learning. and to remedy this situation, the commission will continue to support member states in their mission to establish a truly inclusive education for all and make it work in everyday reality. there are still bridges to be built and concrete things to be done. in this respect, the commission continues to support member states' peer learning activities in the strategic framework of the european education area. to facilitate these exchanges, the commission has set up a new 2021-2025 working group on equality and values. the commission also provides technical support for national reforms, including on how to strengthen the inclusion component of education. yes, the task force could help us, but we don't have to wait until 2025 to unveil the contents. and i assure you of my support for the follow-up to the information i just shared with you. i would also add that in order to improve inclusion in the world of education, the commission adopted on 22 october 2021 an implementing decision creating a framework for inclusion measures for erasmus+ and the european solidarity corps. this framework will enable us to support, monitor and report on the implementation of inclusion measures, including the fight against racism and discrimination. like you, ms yenbou, i am convinced that promoting cultural and linguistic diversity can also help to combat racism and discrimination, and this has been highlighted in the european union's action plan against racism, which recognises the role of the creative europe programme in this regard. projects under this programme should facilitate access to cultural and creative content for all groups, for all audiences, in particular for professionals and disadvantaged participants with health problems, economic, social or geographical barriers or cultural differences. the creative europe programme, in its media strand, has integrated the challenge of combating racism at several levels. after conducting an awareness-raising campaign on diversity in the professions, audiovisual and media in 2021, the commission is preparing a more general campaign on inclusion behind and in front of the camera. inclusion and representativeness in the media are all the more important as they have a strong impact on our societies and on the formation of opinions. in concrete terms, strategies to promote diversity are becoming a fundamental part of the projects supported by the creative europe programme. and in recent years, the commission has developed several tools to combat online hate speech and challenges in the audiovisual field. we will continue to work in this direction, in close cooperation with industry and our other partners. finally, i would like to mention sport, because sport is a great vehicle for integration. in the context of our partnership with the council of europe on combating violence and discrimination in sport, we have recently renewed our cooperation to combat hate speech in sport, to make sport an instrument to combat racism, intolerance and xenophobia. the fight against racism is a priority for sport partnerships and non-profit sporting events. in total, 57 projects in the field of sport were funded during the period 2014-2017. of course, with the new program, there will be more. we also have the #beinclusive eu sport awards, created in 2017. this award recognises individuals and organisations who, through sport, make it possible to express diversity and promote inclusion. i think he could use a little more publicity. i will conclude by saying that there are indeed pilot projects and specific preparatory actions in the field of sport which promote integration. sports are a great way to break down walls, to no longer distinguish between us and them, because there is no reason for it. i shall stop here and listen very carefully to what you have to say.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, in my high school there were three black students out of more than 1 500. i was the first black tv host in luxembourg, but not many were following, unfortunately. once a boyfriend’s mother told me ‘many black people are criminals, but you are different’. no, i am not different. i am not an exception. there are many like me, and they deserve to have a fair chance to succeed. we have to get rid of the racist stereotypes, deconstruct prejudices and represent the full diversity of our society at all levels. we need equal access and opportunities for all in culture, education, media and sports, because they play an important role in the fight against racism. they have the power to change minds and to drive social inclusion. that’s what we, as the european parliament, want to achieve with this report. every child should be able to fulfil its potential. in the fields of culture and media, everyone should be able to identify themselves and to seek for role models and see them. sports is a vector of equality and integration, and we must do our utmost to ban racism from it. it does not matter where one comes from, nor one’s colour of skin. everybody has to have this chance to succeed. everybody can contribute to our society, and we should do everything to ensure that they can. we need to be united in diversity.
madam president, happy international women’s day to everyone and especially to ukrainian women. we are thinking of you and i think that we are praying every day for you. paní předsedající, vážení kolegové, to, co říkal tady kolega uhrík, je prostě jeden velikánský nesmysl. necháme tady nacisty, aby říkali svoje lži o tom, kdo jsou židé? necháme tady rusy vypravovat lži o tom, jak jdou se samopaly, kulomety a jinými zbraněmi budovat mír na ukrajině a zabíjet nevinné lidi? necháme rusy tady šířit dezinformace? dezinformace jsou jako virus. všichni jsme to viděli v době covid-19. virus se šíří, šíří se nekontrolovaně a zabíjí jednoho člověka po druhém. já jsem několik měsíců pracoval na covidovém oddělení, četl jsem ty nesmysly o tom, jak covid-19 je výmysl. ano, těmito rukama jsem každý den zavíral minimálně čtyřem lidem jejich oči. dezinformace jsou něco, proti čemu musíme bojovat. nesmíme v tom ustat a nesmíme říkat, že je to omezení svobody projevu. ano, svoboda projevu má své hranice, a pokud nebudeme za tyto hranice bojovat, pak se brzo stane, že tady žádnou svobodu mít nebudeme.
the commissioner, madam president, right now the internet connects about half the world's population. the internet has long been a key to international communication and commerce. however, only 58% of european citizens have basic digital skills, although these are increasingly important for functioning in modern societies. in 2017, fake news was named word of the year. two years later, the direct and indirect damage caused by misinformation was nearly $80 billion. in addition, it was also revealed that 67 percent of fake news is placed by russia. the russian aggression against ukraine is therefore also a war by other means, especially disinformation campaigns. the kremlin's narrative is as toxic as its military aggression, but on social media we're also following the heroic resistance of ukrainians. the strong messages of president zelensky and the ukrainian leadership have been extremely effective in countering the russian lies. so the kremlin is shutting down the same social media networks it used to use for its gebel propaganda. in addition to the tragic situation in ukraine, i also warn our immediate neighbors. the western balkans must not become a testing ground for the meddling of geopolitical rivals who want to overturn the fundamental values of our union. there is a clear political agenda of disinformation and meddling, manipulating citizens, destabilizing institutions and discrediting undesirable governments. they use disinformation, cyber attacks, they fuel regional tensions, and they support radical political options. these tools undermine our partnership with neighboring countries, influence public opinion and strengthen authoritarian-leaning regimes. our response must be continuous and decisive, because only in this way can we safeguard the future of our democratic societies.
madam president, commissioner, mrs klinkert, mrs kalniete, ladies and gentlemen, the bombs we see falling on ukraine today have been in preparation for a long time. the excuse of dombas control is preceded by years of disinformation war, with the clear aim of destabilizing western democracies and anyone who wants to get close to them. foreign interference, notably russian, along with venezuela and iran - let's not forget this - goes beyond electoral manipulation or spreading falsehoods: it seeks to create chaos, to inflict distrust on national governments, public authorities and the liberal democratic order. in the future, our special committee will have to come up with clearer definitions of what we need to do, look for a methodology and international standards and prepare future regulations to shield us against these attacks. we need to be aware that disinformation thrives in weak, fragmented environments at national or eu level, where our democratic systems are questioned and torpedoed. it happens when secessionist movements, like in catalonia, or populists of left and right ally themselves with those who want to misinform and deceive to advance their agenda, no matter who falls. in any case, we must be aware that this report opens up new defenses and, by the way, every vote counts. each person will have to answer for the votes he or she cast.
i have to say, madam president, we are talking about russian election interference here in the european union. and then we should talk about not having to look so far ahead. we have our colleagues sitting in the house. what about salvini's lega and the lombardy-russia association founded in 2014 by mr. gianluca savoini - by the way, there are now investigations by the prosecutor's office - and the recordings that suggest that they also diverted funds for their election campaigns in an eni-russia deal? what about the financing of mrs. le pen's 2014 election campaign by the first czech-russian bank, her loans for the election? the bank is now bankrupt, and its loan has been given to creditors who are a collection organization for former kgb agents. or just their new loan 2022, this year, with viktor orbán and an unknown hungarian bank - by the way viktor orbán, who wanted to sell hungary's energy independence to rosatom and thus to putin just a few days before the war began. this is about paks ii. and what about our own austrian colleagues? with mr. vilimsky, who only in 2016 in russia signed a friendship agreement between his party and putin's united russia party? these are the real problems here, and they have a direct impact on our european democracy. we should be careful.
i condemn any external interference by third countries, but also the interference of one member state in the democratic processes of another member state. but as is often the case in this household, the positive front page of a report is overshadowed by some side agenda that is bad and makes the report unacceptable. so this report wants to put religious communities under control and surveillance, and any thinking that is not in line with the lgbt agenda this report equates to spreading misinformation or even hate speech. this intention strikes at the very foundations of democracy - freedom of speech and expression. religious communities are not extraneous factors. they are communities of believers, citizens, and the christian worldview is legal and should be acceptable in every society, and especially in the european union which was created on the basis of european, on the basis of christian values. i ask you to accept that and not to deny us our basic rights and freedoms.
madam president, this was a pre-war war. disinformation supported or initiated by foreign states in our democratic countries is exactly that: war. the associated term, "hybrid", does not in any way diminish the violence inflicted on our western societies. foreign interference seeks to manipulate public opinion through lies in order to destabilise our societies. it must be fought with all the vehemence possible. russian influence in the us elections that saw donald trump come to power and russian influence on the outcome of the brexit referendum that led to the uk leaving the european union are very serious events. they not only endanger democratic processes but also lead to divisive political realities among western countries. divided, we are weak - exactly the goal sought by autocratic regimes. we must be aware that our western democracies have inherent weaknesses in the system. the freedom we hold dear above all else and which determines our way of life, when misused, is a danger to itself. too often, it also gives voice to those who want to destroy it. so clearly there are new limits to be defined. yes, mr. riviere, yes, mrs. delli, please do not be offended! tolerance cannot end up giving way to intolerance and authoritarianism. our democratic societies must be able to fight with determination against those who want to destroy our values. i welcome the work of sandra kalniete and our inge committee. i welcome the ideas presented and our unity and determination, which have been strengthened by the revolt felt against russia's war in ukraine.
mr. chairman, i ask you to observe the order of the court and when there are people who violate it, to take action. it happened when your colleague, yaki, was speaking in the hall. there was a disturbance and you didn't take any action. please do. now, on to the subject. as for the refugees from ukraine, we - the bulgarian society, the people in romania, the people in moldova - are already doing everything that needs to be done, and here we are just talking about it. tens, hundreds of thousands of families are housed in guesthouses, vacation properties, anywhere there's someone helping something without talking big empty words, without reading declarations and without trying to garner any political glory from this work. so, here, we have to work more and talk less. but the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that there is hypocrisy in this room again, and that hypocrisy is about genuine aid to ukraine. ukraine made very clear what it wants as early as march 6, 2022, in a letter to its foreign minister kuleba. 20 points there: ban on the sale of oil and gas, no fly zone, supply of weapons and materials. this is what ukraine really needs to defend itself. there is no need for declarations, for stories, for eurovision. i wonder if any dictator would be too concerned about this job, your honor. so if you really want to be useful, don't just repeat "glory to ukraine", which you should do with honor and dignity, not as an excuse. and take real action, because you can't order cheap oil and gas and be against it. that can't and won't happen. we need real solutions, real measures and real protection. long live bulgaria and ukraine!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am very pleased that the member states have finally decided, for the first time, to activate the temporary protection directive, which has been in place since 2001 but has never been activated before. it is safety and security for all those who have to leave everything, for all those who are now forced to flee ukraine because of putin's attacks. i'm relieved for every ukrainian refugee who gets shelter. i am also pleased that this shows that it is possible to welcome refugees into the eu together and share the responsibility for a dignified reception. we've been saying that on the left for a long time. this is what we must take with us, and extend, so that the right to protection and shared responsibility extend to all those fleeing war and oppression, whether they come from ukraine, syria, afghanistan, eritrea or any other country. we should not have, as the swedish and european right have demanded, refugee stops, refugee prisons and border procedures without legal certainty. we're gonna have a system where we share the responsibility for a dignified reception. this is our europe.
mr president, for years, we have been listening in this house to the false accusations that hungary was not helping those in need. the tragic consequences of the current war in ukraine clearly prove those accusations wrong. they were nothing but malicious lies. hungary does help refugees who are now fleeing our neighbouring ukraine from this terrible war. the whole country has moved as one to provide care, accommodation, all kinds of assistance. and i salute all those who take part in this effort. we can witness exemplary unity and helpfulness, just like commissioner schinas also saluted and thanked the people when he visited the border just a few days ago and i thank the commissioner for that. however, instead of focusing on how best to support the frontline states, the left in this house and the epp want to pass a resolution just tomorrow that would demand the freezing of european funds to poland and to hungary. even at a time of a crisis of this magnitude, they cannot stop their usual ideological witch—hunt. well, how petty and short—sighted, i must say. if you keep attacking those countries who are now helping the ukrainians, you can only prove your own incompetence and cynicism.
mr president, the images of lifeless bodies lying there are unbearable. women, men and children who thought they could escape the horror in which they have been locked up for days are trapped by russian bullets. we must be ready to welcome all those who manage to escape this horror. nor are those who manage to escape happy. mostly women and children, alone, their fathers, their husbands left behind, fighting for a free ukraine, now devastated. more than two million people, half of them children, are seeking refuge in the european union, and estimates suggest that there will be six to eight million ukrainian refugees in the near future. they arrive exhausted, with nothing, no future, nowhere to stay, no food. they wonder where and even if their children will go to school. the european union, and particularly the neighbouring countries, have responded in an extraordinary way. eu at its best. that was not the case with the war in syria. the institutional boundaries were not an obstacle and the spontaneous support of citizens was decisive. the european union has also since introduced the temporary protection directive, showing unwavering solidarity. but we are not at the end of our suffering. we must ensure that we give more than shelter to these ukrainians who arrive. apart from housing, the main thing to do is to ensure that the children are in school. we have no idea how long this dramatic humanitarian situation will last. these people ask for nothing more than to return to their country to live freely with their families. but the reality is different. the european union, at all levels of government and down to the smallest village, has a titanic task to accomplish. let us fulfill it, and let us live up to the courageous ukrainians who are fighting for freedom and democracy. slava ukraini is a
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the images of last august are still vivid in our memory. the tragic western retreat from kabul, the triumphant return of the taliban, marked the beginning of dramatic steps backwards on rights won with hard work and paid for with blood by afghan civilians and, let us never forget, by many of our military personnel as well. i think of religious minorities, such as the hazaras and christians, who face discrimination and humiliation every day, and i also think, and especially of women, whose situation has suddenly worsened, subjected once again to tribal laws and customs that obscure and overshadow their own dignity. we condemn these practices in afghanistan and we should condemn them just as strongly when they are imported by the muslim community into europe. but in order to go beyond rhetoric and generic solidarity, it's important to ask ourselves what we can do now: to use all diplomatic channels to allow rights activists to operate, to strongly condition any future relationship with the taliban regime on the restoration of civil and social rights for women, ethnic and religious minorities, and finally to prevent formal recognition of the taliban regime until these minimum conditions are met.
madam president, it's been a year since the taliban took over afghanistan. the situation is dramatic in many ways: hunger, disease, malnutrition, death have reached alarming proportions. and the taliban are imposing laws that are taking away freedom. of all the suffering inflicted on afghans, the suffering of girls and women is particularly cruel. because they are women, they are barred from public office. because they are women, they are restricted in their movements. because they are women, they are not allowed to go beyond primary school. because they are women, they can be sold into marriage at a very young age. from the moment they are born, these little human beings, because they are girls, are destined to submit and suffer. it's just disgusting! we must not stop denouncing and condemning the plight of women in afghanistan. for 20 years, they had, in many cities, gradually taken up positions where they had the power to influence afghan society. they were lawyers, they were journalists, they had important positions in the administration. today, repression is rampant. i am therefore particularly impressed by the women who still dare to fight for their rights in afghanistan. for them and for all the other afghan women and girls, we must continue to speak out. silence is not an option. we cannot accept that the strongest force the weakest, here or elsewhere.
mr president, the war that russia is waging against ukraine was necessarily to be at the heart of the summit held by the european union and china. the horror of what is happening on ukrainian territory demands it. while china admits on the lips that this war threatens global security and the global economy, for us, this war is a threat that jeopardizes everything we believe in and our immediate security. in the face of russia's lies, our leaders are faced with the stark reality that authoritarian regimes must be judged by their actions, not their words. that goes for russia as it goes for china. given china's understanding attitude towards russia, i cannot help but wonder about the russian-chinese exchanges before the russian invasion and the willingness shown at the beijing olympics, including the assurance - quote - of china's boundless friendship towards russia. how to interpret the meaning of friendship without borders, when these words were spoken before the imminent invasion of russia in ukraine? what we must note, however, is that there has been no condemnation of russia by the chinese authorities. it is hoped that at least china's ambitions for economic conquest will lead it to prioritise actions that will be in the direction of global economic stability. it is therefore vital to have the certainty that ukraine will fight until its territory is liberated from the russian occupier and that the european union will support ukraine to the end.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament and the european union more generally have a way of acting in a timely manner. you attack hungary and accuse it of violating the rule of law, but the hungarian people have just disproved your fears by giving victory to viktor orbán against the heterogeneous electoral coalition you supported. you attack poland and accuse it of violating european values, but the polish people have just proved the futility of these reproaches by welcoming ukrainian refugees with admirable generosity. hungary and poland have just given you lessons in democracy and humanism, but you have such ideological blinders that you do not even see it. the european union is not up to the standards of european civilization when it is so deeply involved in hubris. the rule of law theory should respect democracy and not be used against it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are indeed political forces in the european union which do not respect the freedom of others to be different, which force the media to be uniform, which are inclined towards totalitarianism and which want to impose their political profile on everyone. do you think i described poland and hungary? no, i described the commission and some of you, honourable members! the commission does not respect the freedom of some to be different, in this case poland and hungary. the commission wants to impose its worldview on everyone. poles and hungarians, like all of us, have been politely silent when your representatives have been talking about equal pay, and many of you have been shouting and interrupting a woman with whom you disagree. so who is against democracy, against pluralism, against freedom? poles and hungarians? no, i'm not going. look at yourself in the mirror! today we need unity! ukraine is on fire. poland and hungary are taking in millions of refugees, and the commission is destabilising the union by settling accounts with governments it does not like. let us remember that the european union was founded on solidarity and respect for diversity and freedom. and only on this foundation can it prosper!
madam president, the rule of law is one of the fundamental values that define the european union. we must do everything we can to defend it, otherwise we will cease to be the space of freedom and democracy that we are. we know that in poland, particularly because of its judicial system, and in hungary, particularly because of the problems of corruption, the rule of law is being undermined. the most important procedure available to the european union to protect the rule of law within it is undoubtedly the article 7 procedure, since, once it has been completed, it allows the sanctioned state to be deprived of its right to vote in the council. but the proposal is in a deadlock, as it is blocked in the council, because the required unanimity is lacking. we can't go on like this. it is to be hoped that under the french presidency we can make progress. but i also say that either we get out of this deadlock, or we stop and do something else. when a procedure like this takes five years and it doesn't work, we make a fool of ourselves. especially since we must leave no doubt about our positions. hungary has once again elected viktor orbán as its leader, but he is defending an illiberal order that does not correspond to our values. similarly, its positions vis-à-vis russia and ukraine are tainted within the european union. i therefore think it is particularly important to note that yesterday the commission officially triggered the other instrument we have at our disposal against hungary, the conditionality mechanism, which will allow us to have control over the european funds that would be allocated to that country. finally, some people need to stop mixing things up. yes, poland and hungary must also rely on us financially to help them take in the ukrainian refugees, but this is no reason to delay the actions to be taken to defend the rule of law. (speaker agrees to answer a question)
blue-card answer. – the european union has clearly asked for what needs to be done in a very clear manner, in a manner in which you can’t go and pick one word that wouldn’t be exactly what it should be. you have the text, so look at it and you’ll know it.
madam president, commissioner johansson, very well done, robert biedroń, chairman of the committee on women's rights, for bringing to this european parliament an urgent question on a drama that must be high on our agenda: the impact of the war in ukraine on women, who make up the vast majority of those who have fled the war zone. they are the most vulnerable victims of the brutal sexual violence by russian troops and, of course, of the sexual exploitation to which they are exposed in the smuggling networks that have been activated at the border. the european parliament therefore also welcomes the sensitivity with which the commission has coordinated the safe transport of people fleeing the war zone, the vast majority of whom are women, girls and boys. secondly, it has ensured the rights to sexual and reproductive health, medical care and the right to abortion for women who have been raped by russian troops. thirdly, it has strengthened the european union agency for criminal justice cooperation, eurojust, to cooperate with the ukrainian prosecutor's office and the prosecutor's office of the international criminal court, so that no war crime - particularly those committed against women - can go unpunished: evidence collection, investigation and prosecution of every last crime of sexual violence.
mr. chairman of the board! in all the world's wars, women and children suffer the most. in ukraine, russian troops have left behind a bloody trail of murdered men, displaced women, girls and boys. of the 5.5 million refugees, about 90 percent are women and children. one million people have been deported to russia from the occupied territories, and 200,000 of them are children waiting to be forcibly adopted. russia must be held accountable for these war crimes at the international criminal court in the hague. in addition, a special international mechanism or tribunal should be established, which, with the support of the un member states, could be established by a decision of the un general assembly and financed from the un budget. in the framework of the un, a coalition of 49 countries has been formed and has undertaken to conduct investigations at the national level in close cooperation with the ukrainian law enforcement authorities. interview victims of violence among refugees without delay and document sexual crimes in a qualitative, detailed and digital manner, providing victims with psychological and material support and the possibility to terminate pregnancies resulting from rape. the european commission's decision to allocate €3.5 billion from reacteu funds is welcome, so that member states can quickly access these funds and provide refugees with decent living conditions, social services and health protection. thank you.
madam president, i would first like to pay tribute to the incredible courage of the ukrainian women in this war imposed on them by russia, which nothing, absolutely nothing, justifies. women soldiers are fighters in the army. mothers and political leaders, i heard them say that humanitarian aid was important, but that the most important thing was the delivery of weapons to defend their freedom. and what courage for those who have gone to the front to survive and protect their children. they're a bunch of fighters. but there are also those who, powerless in the face of brutal and inhuman force, have suffered the worst humiliations and violence. rape as a weapon of war has destroyed even the strongest. they are physically and mentally scarred, and they struggle to survive, to heal. many came to the european union, where most were welcomed with open arms, with great dedication on the part of their hosts, and many associations did remarkable work. but unfortunately there are other dangers lurking in our midst too: human trafficking and abuse of all kinds. we must do everything possible to protect ukrainians seeking refuge in our country, especially the most vulnerable among them, including single women and children. financial, administrative, medical and psychological support facilities must continue to be established and developed. this is one of the points that this european parliament resolution seeks to highlight.
i know the subject is very emotional, the heart is racing, and the time for speaking is passing very quickly. i would ask all speakers to really stick to the limited time they have been given.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the regression of the rule of law and democracy in some member states represents a systemic threat to the european union, to the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. the commission's efforts to identify developments in key areas such as the judiciary, the anti-corruption framework, media pluralism and other issues concerning the systematic balance of power are not enough, we need to go further. i have always supported a broad monitoring mechanism, covering all the european values of article 2 of the treaty on european union, in order to protect them and, above all, to prevent their violation. it is hypocritical to think that we can prevent the emergence or aggravation of rule of law issues without ensuring an effective follow-up to the annual report. if it is not taken as a reference for stringent and country-specific recommendations, for the activation of article 7 and for the conditionality regulation or for infringement procedures and other relevant instruments, it is clear that we will never have an organic system of rapid preventive, corrective and sanctioning measures.
madam president, the annual rule of law report is a key instrument for safeguarding the values enshrined in article 2 and ensuring that they are respected throughout the union; for identifying and preventing problems and also for checking that they are respected by all member states. while the scope of this report needs to be broadened, it is already a good start and allows for objective insight into areas that are fundamental to understanding and appreciating the health of the rule of law. however, it is important that this report in the future can only be an instrument of a real rule of law regulation, in which the institutions have the capacity to assess and even initiate proceedings against states which do not comply with the various dimensions and principles of the rule of law. and in this connection i would like to say that it is essential that the council should proceed with the article 7 procedure. it requires only a qualified majority to determine whether or not there is a risk of a serious breach by a member state of the values in article 2. and because it has not done so, the commission should also say in this report that the council is failing in its obligations because it is not implementing and giving effect to article 7 and it has been mandated to do so by the commission in the case of poland and by parliament in the case of hungary. and that is also a failure of the rule of law at the level of the european union. the council is failing and must be punished for it.
madam president, commissioner, dear didier reynders, for too long some member states have been disregarding european values without consequence. faced with these repeated attacks on the rule of law, europe is trying to mobilise. your report, commissioner, is of course an important founding document. the report we are examining today proposes to go further to implement a number of corrective measures. the situation shows obstacles to the independence of the judiciary, restrictions on freedom of the press and freedom of expression. but i think we can all agree that reporting is not enough. what's the point of analyzing if you don't get the consequences? what's the point of documenting if you don't act? the report offers it to you. you have indicated, commissioner reynders, that you want to go further. we have of course the budgetary conditionality procedure in place for hungary. it is a good step, but together with our group, with sophia in 't veld, who spoke earlier, we are asking that this report be an even more operational tool in the service of the conditionality of european funds. we therefore express the strong expectation that the next edition - then, rather than in july - will be the occasion for a broad debate and the construction of new tools; the new report pursues this objective, making specific recommendations either country by country or against specific objectives to address the problems identified. we owe it to our journalists, our judges - a special thought for the suspended polish judges - and to all our citizens who are committed to democratic life.
madam president! to make our debate a little more productive, we asked eminent legal experts to assess the commission's reports for the past year. their preliminary assessment, commissioner, confirmed the many weaknesses of these reports, but also the fact that anyone - even a layman - can see when he looks at them. well, the fact of unequal treatment of countries, of states. this is evident, for example, from the striking difference in the sources on which these reports are based. for example, in the case of germany, the report is based mainly on government information, which accounts for 33% of the sources, and on the commission's own information, which accounts for 32% of the sources, while only 20% of the information comes from entities not directly linked to the german state, 7,5% from the press, 2,5% from international organisations. in the case of poland, the situation is reversed. the main sources are ngos and media critical of the government. there's no indication that anything will change this year. so i would encourage the european commission to do a thought experiment and change the proportions. and then you might be surprised at the conclusions.
madam president, the polish government representative who is not even here for the debate any more makes a show about poland, saying it’s safe, it’s free. let me tell you, it’s not. if you’re a woman with an unwanted pregnancy, you are not free in poland. if you are an lgbti person and you live in one of the polish ‘lgbti—free zones’, you are not safe in poland. if you are working with solidarity for migrants and refugees, regardless of their background and their colour of skin, you can be subject to governmental harassment. if you work for the independence of the judiciary or for civil society freedoms, the government will seek to counteract you. that’s not free. that’s not safe. so, we don’t want more anti—authoritarian, anti—democratic europe. this is just what putin would like us to be. he would like these anti—democratic developments to get a hold of europe and to develop and to get more countries walking that way. but we are not going to let it happen. so i call on the commission, i call on the member states – there is nothing more important than to protect democracy and human rights, please. if we do that, we can then take care of the rest of the planet and create more equality. but we have to get the democracy thing right first.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the european left has been waging a political smear campaign against hungary and poland for years, using the concept of the rule of law. we have just heard the best example of this, and one of the main tools of this has been the commission's annual rule of law report for years. although the report purports to be an impartial assessment of the member states, it is in fact a gross double standard. its contents are not based on facts but are the biased opinions of pseudo-civil organizations aimed at exerting political pressure. they're just boosting our immunity. the commission is in fact demanding its own ideological demands on democratically elected governments. we have no problem with democracy. as this debate today shows, no one cares about facts. the european parliament is eager to assist in everything the commission is presenting and is calling for all kinds of sanctions to put pressure on hungary, whether on migration or on child protection. and the hungarian people made it clear a month ago that they don't want brussels' ideological education. it is time to realise that such politically biased reports are not in the interests of europe but are destroying european cooperation.
since many, many of you are exceeding the speaking time, i ask you again to be really disciplined with the speaking time. the debate is delayed. i fully understand all the objections, of course, because this is such an emotional and important issue. nevertheless, we would like to stick to our timetable on the whole. i would therefore ask the next speaker, mrs isabel wiseler-lima, not to exceed one minute and 30 seconds.
madam president, i would like to thank commissioner reynders. the commission's annual report is a real asset for democracy in the european union. i would also like to emphasize, to counter some of the voices that are tendentious, that in this report all the member states are examined in the same way, using the same indicators and the same method. i would like to raise a criticism which was raised last year. the report must make a very clear distinction between systemic violations and isolated violations. it is essential to emphasise this difference. we cannot allow countries like hungary or poland to single out one or another problem area in other countries that otherwise have sound systems and let them put these single points on the same level as violations that are disruptive, systemic and endanger the very foundations of our democracies. secondly, i would like to express a real concern about the rule of law in the union, in view of the disregard shown by some governments for the judgments of the court of justice of the european union. the court's judgments are not optional, particularly when they are intended to prevent discrimination. we have to find a way to fix this. finally, i would like to conclude on a point that is particularly close to my heart: the independence of the media and the safety of journalists are not guaranteed. we know that fair and free information is essential to democracy. we need to find ways to protect journalists so that they can work in a calm and free way. investigative journalism is an important tool in the fight against corruption. it is simply not acceptable that journalists are harassed, intimidated or threatened with death. the commission's proposal for a directive to tackle abusive prosecutions, the 'slapps', is an important step. unfortunately, we will probably have to do more.
madam president, madam president of the commission, we do not share in any way the decision to approve the polish plan. the instruments for defending the rule of law - protecting budgetary instruments from breaches of the rule of law - have been one of the great advances of recent years and this mechanism we have is not to punish polish citizens. the only person responsible - and this must be made clear - if the money does not reach poland is the warsaw government for not fulfilling its obligations as a member of the european union. this has to be very clear. but you've made a mistake. and it is a decision which is not shared by a large part of the college of commissioners, as has been reported. maybe they were afraid that poland would take them to court. i do not think that this would have any effect because the regulation actually leaves you some leeway to protect the rule of law in approving the plan. but well, that decision has already been made and now the only thing you can expect from us is that we are very vigilant that the conditions are met. because if you do not, madam president, you run the serious risk of being censored. this is a very serious game we're playing. you cannot be surprised that parliament is in such a bad mood today and therefore we do ask you to be very strict in meeting those three conditions and if not, parliament will have no choice but to censure you.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the dispute over the plans for the development and resilience of hungary and poland has been going on for more than a year now. and unlike hungary, we have to admit that poland has made some big steps towards us in the last few weeks. this should also be recognised and set an example for hungary. nevertheless, i must say quite clearly that the european commission's behaviour is a bit far-fetched. the first is always that the polish plan will only be given the green light if all the requirements in the area of the rule of law are fully met. this has always been mentioned as a non-negotiable precondition for the release of the polish plan. poland has made progress, but it has not yet eliminated all the problems. the commission has nevertheless blocked the polish plan. but she still doesn't trust the roasting, otherwise she wouldn't have stressed that no money will flow until all the conditions are met. the unchanging preconditions for a release have now become milestones and targets within the plan the target has therefore already been moved once. of course, it's important now that the target doesn't move twice. the rule of law is a particular area where flexibility is not possible. the commission seems to want to work with sugar and a whip, but to use sugar to lure people and then forget about the whip is not a strategy. we've seen this before in other plans, that there's a lot of sugar and little whip. i can only appeal to you to look very carefully and not release the money until all the conditions are met.
madam president, when the commission announces that it is going to authorize the disbursement of no less than 24 billion euros in grants, plus 11.5 billion euros in loans to poland, it is contradicting the resolutions of this parliament, but also its own statements in this gallery before the european parliament. the recovery fund is a sign of solidarity from the whole of the european union with its member states, including poland. is it too much to ask that member states - and poland - should comply with european law in return? i remind you of your statements in this gallery. the recovery fund is disbursed only if three conditions are met. dismantling the disciplinary chamber, reviewing the disciplinary procedures and reinstating the judges that were dismissed or suspended by the disciplinary chamber. none of these requirements have already been met. not as of yet. so as long as these requirements are not met, as long as the disciplinary chamber is not dismantled and not just called something else, it is essential that we stick to the question of principles. and this parliament, of course, respects poland's efforts in the face of the crisis unleashed by putin's brutal war of aggression against ukraine. but at the same time we say that this does not justify turning a blind eye to the flagrant disregard for the rule of law and judicial independence and the enforcement of the judgments of the court of justice of the european union and the european court of human rights, all of which have been flagrantly ignored by the polish government. or have we seen in any other member state of the european union that the government has asked the court of justice of the european union to say that the primacy of european union law is incompatible with its constitution and to go to its constitutional court and say so simply because that is what the government is asking it to do? so, as long as the conditions are not met, madam president, this parliament will abide by its resolutions. (the speaker agrees to reply to an intervention under the 'blue card' procedure)
occurrence indicated by the lifting of the blue card. just a question. your predecessor was kind enough to say that poland has taken a step farther than hungary. do you agree with this type of opinion that poland is more willing to cooperate and fix this justice system? is that your opinion, gentlemen?
blue-card reply. – both of them – hungary and poland – are member states of the european union. they are bound exactly by the same rules and by the same law as the rest of us and the rest of the member states of the european union. this european parliament represents 10 million hungarian citizens in their european citizenship. this european parliament represents 40 million polish citizens in their polish citizenship. so it is our wish that the polish government not only says that it is willing to comply, that it has the intention to comply, that maybe it would consider to comply. we want both hungary and poland to comply. and as long as they don’t comply, we have a case here. that is why we put in place article 2. that is why we put in place the procedure of article 7. that is why we are expecting finally poland to abide by the rulings of european court of justice and the court of human rights in strasbourg. insofar as it is not the case, and particularly it does not comply with this very chamber being dismantled, we have a case. that is the principle. so we only hope that poland and hungary will finally make it and understand that they are bound by the same rules and by the same law as the rest of the member states and by the rest of us.
madam president, poland has been at the forefront of the european union in helping ukraine from day one. it has led by example and shown great european solidarity. it has received millions of women and children fleeing the war and provided ukraine with financial and material support. but, madam president of the commission, but. this is another ball game that we are talking about. the fundamental pillar of the european union is the rule of law. we simply cannot compromise on that under any circumstances. and in the midst of crisis, its importance and protection are even more important, if possible. so in this respect, there is no alternative but to fully comply with the rulings of the european court of justice regarding the rule of law in poland. they must be implemented, to the last point, before any money is finally released from the rrf. and that’s not even enough. what’s more, the commission has to have solid evidence that the measures taken by poland actually respect the rule of law, that they are permanent and that they are credible, and that they are full – full, full, full stop. so this is the only way to ensure that the union stands by its principles and that the legitimacy of our actions remains in the eyes of europeans. because i have to be very frank here: last week was humiliating. one member state, hungary, held the whole union hostage. and now, if the next thing that would happen would be another member state holding the european court of justice rulings hostage. europeans know what they are looking at. they understand this. we don’t have time to do this forever.
i have to say, madam president, for years, the polish pis government has been damaging democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in its own country. what about the commission? under frans timmermans, they seemed determined to stop the pis. but since the launch of the article 7 procedure in december 2017, nothing decisive has happened on the part of the commission despite clear judgments of the ecj. the commission could have changed this now with the corona reconstruction fund, simply by adhering to its own principle: payment only if all conditions are met, that is, if reforms are implemented in practice. so the ball is in the court of the polish government. it is in her hands whether funds are actually paid out or not. but by recognising poland's reconstruction plan, mrs von der leyen is clearly changing the rules of the game, ignoring two votes against by her colleagues. the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' is a very important one. yes, poland also needs financial support for the reception of refugees from ukraine. and that's why poland has received funds from the refugee fund and the border management instrument. but this is about something more important. it's about whether we take our core values, whether we take democracy and the rule of law seriously or not. and i wish this was a rhetorical question.
madam president, the rule of law must be respected. the president of the commission promised it. i'm assuming she keeps her word. the aim is not to isolate hungary and poland within the european union, but to protect the hungarian and polish peoples and to find ways of persuading them to return to the rule of law. if poland, as it stands, can be convinced that it will achieve the judicial reforms we are demanding, and in a short time, i can accept the media's green light for the polish recovery plan, since that green light requires judicial reforms to take place now, before the funds are paid. this is a rhetorical question, since the conditions will still have to be met. the deadlines are indicated in the approval. in substance, there is no difference between announcing conditional approval or saying that the recovery plan will only be approved once the judicial reforms have been completed. if this can convince the polish government to act, then let us support ursula von der leyen. when i hear some people say, in the midst of russia's war in ukraine, that we must make sure that mr putin does not lose face, it makes me sick. so i find it difficult to understand that when it comes to convincing a european union government to respect the rule of law, some people do not accept rhetoric that should lead the polish government to submit to our conditions. that said, i cannot accept that eu money should be coming to poland without the necessary judicial reforms having actually taken place.
mr president, commissioner, are you aware that in galicia more than 43 000 hectares have been burned by fires? almost 2,000 galicians have had to leave their homes this summer. the fire has reached the houses. protected natural areas such as the courel biosphere reserve, valdeorras or the serra da barbanza have been burned. devastated, galicia burned without preventive means, materials and with the failures of planning of the galician government. a green country that gets burned. all solidarity to the fire brigades and to the people affected. the european forestry strategy should be based on encouraging the use of indigenous biomass such as oak, birch, chestnut and beech, and not on encouraging large areas of fuel-laden biomass such as eucalyptus on my land, which are at risk of fire transmissibility.
i'm sorry, i can't give the floor to six other colleagues who have asked for it. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. please, i always give you the floor and you've talked too many times with "catch-the-eye". i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the first is based on information given to me by my colleagues and also including those who have been following the debate. because it's not right for someone to ask for the floor with the process of "catch-the-eye", to leave and come back at the end just to talk. i'm sorry, mrs. grapini, but we have to go, we don't have time. please move along. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
yes, but you were second from your political group.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, minister, i would like, first of all, to thank all of you for your interventions and the good debate today. the terrible events we have experienced this summer in europe and worldwide are yet another wake-up call. natural question: how many of those wake-up calls do we still need? many of you call today for clear political will, and i couldn’t agree more that it’s high time to prove our political will – our political will to properly implement european legislation that is in place to make our nature more resilient and slow down climate change, but also political will to further step up efforts and show more ambition. because what the extreme weather events over the last year showed is that climate change and loss of biodiversity are progressing faster and faster. the reply cannot be a lowering of our ambition, but more commitment to increase it. some of you were asking whether we are late. yes, we are. but hopefully not too late if we now urgently speed up and step up, better prepare for and address the climate crisis – and let us be clear, every single region in europe will be affected by the impacts of climate change and biodiversity loss, even those which so far thought they were more or less safe. to those who mentioned agriculture today and the need to support our farmers, let me be very clear. our greener cap, our biodiversity strategy, our ‘farm to fork’ strategy, they are our straightjacket for our farmers. they are our plan to make them more resilient – more resilient against biodiversity loss, against climate change, including of course natural disasters and their consequences that they are already facing. our policy is an insurance policy for the future, for all the sectors, so much dependent on healthy nature. without a healthy, resilient nature, there will be no food security. this is also what we will discuss with the czech presidency at the next environment council, when we will prepare our two key international meetings this year: cop27 for climate and cop15 on biodiversity. sharm el-sheikh and montreal will be key opportunities to get the world on-board and to show commitment also at international level and to promote what is a truly smart solution. i am talking here, of course, about nature-based solutions, protecting and restoring wetlands, peatlands, coastal and marine ecosystems, developing urban green spaces and installing green roofs and walls, or promoting sustainably—managed forests and farmland. these smart solutions help mitigate climate change at the same time as reversing biodiversity loss. they all contribute, for example, to better regulate temperatures, to absorb flood overflows and to attenuate the effects of extreme droughts. it is the eu’s commitment, if a disaster strikes, to respond and to deliver assistance in the spirit of solidarity, both domestically and abroad. let me join all of those who have paid tribute today to firefighters and all of those who helped and did everything they could to lower the suffering. but it’s also the eu’s commitment to avoid disaster, to hit hard in the first place and to protect society against suffering and damage. we have the strategic framework and the tools at our disposal. climate adaptation policy is already mainstreamed in a number of areas. prevention requires more political attention that it has been given so far. our legal deadline is to get ahead of climate change, and for this we need to act on science more than ever. we need a more coordinated effort, targeted funding for good adaptation solutions, rigorous and fast implementation at all levels, not only after a summer like this one, but on a continuous basis every day.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you very much for this enriching debate, which once again highlights the severity of the climate crisis, the complexity of this challenge and the urgent need to ensure the eu delivers on its climate commitments enshrined in the european climate law. it has been said a number of times, this summer has been unprecedented in terms of the numbers of catastrophic weather and climate events affecting wide areas of europe. many concrete examples from various countries have been given. mrs vrecionová already mentioned the terrible wildfire that affected huge area of the bohemian switzerland national park, which lies at the czech—german border. this, probably the biggest forest fire in my country’s history, spread and ravaged more than 1 000 hectares in both countries. it took 20 days to get it fully extinguished and involved more than 6 000 firefighters. this is yet another example that extreme weather events have no borders. at the same time, it was also an example of european solidarity and cooperation. the eu civil protection mechanism has been activated and the help was coming from several, not only neighbouring, member states. on a personal note, i would like to praise the enormous efforts and incredible work of all the firefighters and the civil force workers from all countries concerned who did a tremendous job. as regards our common work, the fit for 55 package is the vehicle for implementing our ambitious targets and translating them into concrete policies. this debate, as indeed the numerous parts of the fit for 55 package, illustrates the multifaceted nature of climate change and of the action needed to address it. it is clear that we share not only the same fundamental goals, but also many of the same concerns, although our approaches differ in some cases. i want to stress that the council will continue to work constructively with the parliament in the framework of the interinstitutional negotiations in order to bring them to a successful conclusion as swiftly as possible. again, thank you very much for this debate.
i have received six motions for resolutions to wind up this debate. the vote will be held on thursday 15 september 2022. the next item is the debate with the prime minister of finland, sanna marin, on 'this is europe' (2022/2756 ((rsp)). (the sitting was suspended at 10.33 a.m.)
in writing. climate, energy, economic crises all have an impact on people, small businesses and farmers. we can't just talk about the green deal, the 2030 target, and not look at the effects today. the minister said that the specificities of the member states must be taken into account, but how is it that farmers receive different subsidies, with those in my country having subsidies that are two or three times lower than farmers in france? recently, the same percentage of pesticide was reduced, although farmers used different amounts. the commissioner said he's evaluated public health, but he has a report from the specialists that shows we can live with 19 degrees in the house, that we can give up bathing and personal care. natural disasters can be mitigated through investment, and this requires dedicated money and time to achieve. otherwise, whatever you decide to set as goals to achieve, you will only damage people's lives. water, gas, energy bills are all the same, but people's incomes are different. how will the poorest be helped? "consume less" is a hypocritical and disrespectful response. don't decide against humanity, by showing that you help it!
written. i'm glad we're discussing this important topic because climate change is a threat to life on planet earth. the effects of climate change are already being felt today, they are here, they are not coming in the future. every day we witness heat waves, fires, droughts, floods and storms like we've never seen in europe before. but we still mostly look at climate change from a mitigation perspective, not an adaptation perspective. the fact is that a certain part of the civil activist scene is reacting negatively to the term climate change adaptation because they see it as throwing a spear into the thorns, but we need to significantly strengthen the resilience of our societies to the already present consequences of climate change, as well as those that are yet to come, and this implies a far greater focus and funding of climate change adaptation projects. i would like to highlight agro-food as a great combination of protecting biodiversity on the one hand, and protecting agricultural areas, but also settlements from flooding, with positive mitigation action on the other. of course, we should also actively work on reclamation systems, but also return to natural river meandering wherever possible. when it comes to fires, there is a lack of work on early warning systems, fire infrastructure and maintenance, and the construction of new fire roads in forests. our efforts must be a combination of old, often forgotten knowledge and new, sophisticated technologies.
drought, fires, extreme weather events. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. water policy, which should remain in the public domain, cannot be put in place only in times of drought. structural measures, investment in enhancing water storage capacity to ensure supply for human consumption and the development of economic, agricultural and industrial activities, and support for adaptation to agricultural and agricultural activities are needed. it is necessary to hierarchise the use of water in times of drought. firefighting begins with prevention policy. a policy which must look at the underlying causes, the reasons for rural abandonment. a policy which calls for the development of small and mediumsized farming and its income, countering the phenomena of concentration of production and the replacement of agricultural production areas by monoculture, which enhances the countryside with the presence of public services. the environmental problems we face are an expression of the predatory action of capitalism. responding to these problems requires fundamental changes in policies, safeguarding the interests of each people and their sovereign right to development.
due to climate change, an unprecedented drought this summer has affected agriculture in flanders and europe. along with the continuing threat of war and suffocating energy prices, water scarcity is having a major impact not only on the availability of food but also, in the future, on its affordability. emergency calls from farmers in my home region reach me about how much the vegetable harvest will be reduced by the drought. i therefore think it is right and necessary that the european parliament in its resolution calls on the european commission, in cooperation with the member states, to increase its support for innovative projects aimed at collecting and storing rainwater or purifying and reusing industrial waste water for use in periods of drought. at present, we are seeing a patchwork of individual projects in the member states, but only with a strong european crossborder framework will we be able to build the necessary infrastructure at european level to combat drought and water scarcity in a sustainable and credible way in the future.
the next item is the ‘this is europe’ debate with the prime minister of finland, sanna marin (2022/2756(rsp)). dear colleagues, today we have with us the prime minister of finland, sanna marin. dear prime minister, dear sanna, thank you for accepting our invitation to address the parliament and the people of europe as part of our ‘this is europe’ series of debates. the world around us is changing faster than many thought possible. many of us would never have imagined that europe would again experience war on its doorstep. and on 24 february 2022, when president putin’s tanks rolled into independent and sovereign ukraine, many of us would never have imagined that russia’s aggression would last over 200 days. the warning signs were there. we saw what happened in crimea, what they did to navalny, how they tried to crush democracy in belarus, the targeted threats against finland, the eu country with the longest border with russia. now it is time to respond, to stand up to the values and for the values that give europe its sustainable advantage. and in doing so, we must be ready to adapt to the changing geopolitical realities. right now people are worried about the soaring prices of gas and electricity. there are things that we can do together, even temporarily, to limit the impact while we implement long-term strategies. we can no longer afford to depend on undependable actors. and to face our real shared security challenges, work must start immediately to build a real security and defence union. and here i would like to welcome finland’s historic decision to join nato. we know finland has been a long time nato partner and will be a key security contributor in northern europe and in the baltic sea area. the ramping up of efforts, dear colleagues, will come at a cost. but if ever there was a moment for more europe, it is here and it is now. tomorrow, at the european parliament here we will host the president of the european commission for the state of the european union debate, where we will have an opportunity to speak about these reforms. my hope is to see finland play a central role in shaping the future of a more resilient, more united europe. so, dear prime minister, dear sanna, the floor is yours.
prime minister of finland. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my visit to the european parliament comes at a dark time. europe is at war. in its war of aggression against ukraine, russia has violated and abandoned the core principles and commitments of the european security order. the exceptional uncertainty and inflation in the energy markets threaten to plunge europe into recession. the record summer drought and natural disasters are indications of the progress of climate change. if we don't act in time, act now, it's too late. there will be no new opportunities. but even in the darkest of times, there is hope. ukraine will win the war with our support. there's no other choice. in our hearts, they've already won. ukrainians are brave and unyielding. the ukrainian counterattack is now advancing at an incredible rate. russia has already been forced to withdraw from many areas. we have jointly responded to russia's aggression with sanctions and military, economic and humanitarian aid to ukraine. europe and the western world have acted with determination and unity. unity is our greatest strength. unity is needed now more than ever, with russia using energy as a weapon against europe. the blackmailing of our societies through energy supplies is a way of undermining european support for ukraine and of breaking our unity. this is not a game putin can win. while russia uses energy as a blackmailing tool, it is short-sighted. the current energy crisis is only accelerating europe's move away from russian fossil fuels. with this war, russia is destroying its own economy and its own future. our trust in russia has been shattered, and even if the war ended today, it will not be restored for a long time. while responding to russian blackmail with unity and determination, we must show solidarity with each other and care for our citizens. we must ensure the availability of energy throughout europe and be prepared to take exceptional measures to reduce the price of energy. it is in these difficult times that european unity is being tested. in difficult times, our commitment to human rights, the rule of law and democracy is tested. russia thinks that diversity, democracy and respect for human rights make us weak. this is the dark lesson russia is now taking to the world, but it is this that makes us strong. our societies thrive precisely because in a democracy, citizens decide their own future. we value diversity, we promote human rights, we want to give every person a chance to succeed. members of the european parliament, it is an honour to speak to you here today. the european parliament's strong role as the defender of the union's common values is particularly important at a time when these values are being challenged most. the european union is the main political reference framework for all its member states. since the war of aggression launched by russia, we have proved our ability to act in unity time and again. but the unity of the european union is not something that is dictated from above. european unity is built on a vibrant democratic debate and on mutual understanding. the crises of recent years, the pandemic, war and now the energy crisis have shown that the need for solidarity and unity can be met in turn by each member state. that is why it is important to cherish our unity. an internally divided eu is a weak eu, and this is exactly what russia wants. (applause) i would like to thank the my friends, we will survive the russian blackmail and the long winter, but we will need unity, determination and courage. when we calculate the price of war in euros, the ukrainians calculate the price in human lives. it is not just ukraine that is at stake, but european values and the whole international system based on rules. ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, mr president, ukraine's place is in the european union. in june we demonstrated our openness and reliability as partners when we took new decisions on the enlargement of the european union. ukraine and moldova were granted eu candidate status and georgia was promised a european perspective. the eu is also moving towards closer relations with the countries of the western balkans. the path to membership is not short, nor is the process quick. the doors of the european union must remain open to all european states which wish to be part of our community of values and are committed to the necessary reforms. it is a question of the will of nations to determine their own future and their place in the world. the very principle that russia is attacking with its actions. the kind of world of privileged groups that russia is seeking is unacceptable. russia is challenging us, blackmailing us, threatening us, but we will not bow. as a result of the russian war of aggression, finland and sweden have applied for membership of the defence alliance of nato, and our countries' membership of nato will strengthen the security of the whole of northern europe and make the whole of the union stronger. (applause) i would like to thank the as a result of russia's actions, the western world is more united than ever. russia is more alone than ever. we must above all continue to support ukraine in all its forms and be prepared for ever-harsher sanctions. the stronger the impact of sanctions, the more expensive it will be for russia to continue the war. the sanctions must be reflected in the everyday life of ordinary russians. it is not right that while russia is killing ukrainian civilians, russian tourists are free to travel in europe. the issue of visas must be severely restricted. the complete suspension of the application of the eu-russia visa facility agreement is justified in this situation, but is not sufficient in itself. energy availability and price will be the most important issues for us in the coming months and years. we must do everything we can together to ensure that ordinary citizens and businesses survive the coming autumn and winter. in the short term, we must find all the means to secure energy supplies and to reduce energy prices. it is important that the commission submits proposals to deal rapidly with electricity prices, electricity market disruptions and related acute issues such as the problems of the electricity derivatives exchange. the usual solutions are no longer enough. solutions must be sought without prejudice and exceptional measures may be necessary. in the medium and long term, the only way out of the energy crisis is to invest heavily in renewable and zero-emission energy production, common european transmission networks and storage technologies. we need to get off russian fossil fuel as soon as possible. energy investment is also essential to respond to the climate crisis. although the situation is far from what we had hoped for and will test every european country in an unprecedented way, the crisis also holds the promise of a better future. now, at the very least, we must make the leap to a more climate-resilient economy. investing in the green transition will improve our self-sufficiency and ensure our society's competitiveness in the future. it is good that the fit for 55 readiness package has been carried forward with determination, even in these difficult times. as the negotiations move towards the end, it is necessary to ensure that the ambition of the preparedness package is maintained. the war and the crisis in the energy markets are putting severe pressure on the european economy. at the same time, expectations of the eu have increased further. it is clear that the eu budget must be sufficient to ensure the union's ability to act even in times of crisis. a functioning and internally united union must also be a credible actor in external relations. yet the eu's capacity to act is not developed by increasing the budget or by loosening the rules of the common economy. a means of recovery was needed, a mutually agreed one-off solution, not a model, for future crises. there's a lot of things we should be doing together. the division of labour between the union and the member states must, however, be kept in mind. the responsibility for economic policy should remain with the member states in accordance with the treaties. at the same time, it must be remembered that our economies are not isolated from one another, but that when one member state falls into recession, the effects are felt throughout the union. common rules are needed and must be further developed. the main task of the fiscal regulatory framework is to contain the excessive indebtedness of the member states and the associated risks. at the same time, the regulatory framework should take account of the impact of economic fluctuations on public finances and encourage countercyclical policies to offset them. the current regulatory framework does not provide sufficient incentives for this. our common rules of the game are not just about fiscal policy, but key tools such as the european semester must also be developed to take economic, social, employment and environmental issues more into account. the need for a rules-based and responsible economic policy is clear, because only an economically strong and economically sustainable europe has the capacity to act independently and to help others, as is the case now in ukraine, when needed. the eu has shown its resilience and ability to act in crises. even in exceptional times, we worked with determination for a better europe. the eu's ability to act under external pressure is shown by the pursuit of common objectives and the implementation of previously agreed reforms despite crises. at the same time, crises have also made our vulnerabilities crystal clear. the debate on european strategic autonomy is one of the most important debates we are having at the moment. it is about our ability to face external challenges and to ensure the functioning of our societies in all situations. as the pandemic swept over us, we realized how dependent we were on non-european supply chains for medical supplies. we had to build up our capacity quickly to secure the supply of protective equipment and other essential supplies. the war has shown the importance of europe's own defence production and our vulnerability in the energy sector. we must admit that we have been far too naive about russia and have based our assumptions about russian action on erroneous concepts. we should have listened more carefully to our friends in the baltic states and poland who have lived under soviet rule. we are now paying a heavy price together for our dependence on russian energy. (applause) i would like to thank the war and the price of energy threaten to drive the world into a food crisis as well. europe must be sufficiently self-sufficient in food production and we must also help others. at its worst, global food shortages lead to famine, social unrest, and migration. that's why africa is our business. while we are now focusing on energy and other pressing issues, we must also be able to prevent future crises. one of the most important questions for the future is our technological capacity and know-how. our societies will be fully digitized, and we cannot afford to make the same mistakes that we have made with energy. we cannot rely on authoritarian countries to develop critical technologies or supply chains. europe must strengthen our technological capacity together with our democratic partners. we can't afford to have blue eyes. it's not just about the economy, it's about our security and the way our societies work. i would like to stress, fellow europeans, that despite the considerable challenges ahead, european cooperation is a success story in the long arc of history. the desire of ever more new european states to join our democratic community is proof of this. yet europe is not a monolith. the integration of the union does not stop, but is constantly changing. we too must become better, braver and more capable. the european union's ability to act is fundamentally a matter of political will. (applause) i would like to thank the finland takes a constructive approach to the development of the eu. we take seriously the voice of the citizens and the new proposals that have emerged from the conference on the future of europe. but the opening of the treaties in the midst of a crisis is not the right time. our citizens did not ask for institutional change, but for reforms that would address humanity's greatest challenges and their everyday concerns. we can respond to these needs within the existing framework, for example by increasing qualified majority voting in the area of the common foreign and security policy. ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, fellow europeans, we are not living in our first or last crisis. despite the difficult times, and this is why we must rely on our greatest strength: our mutual trust and our unity. to be strong externally, we must internally uphold our common values the rule of law, democracy and human rights. by acting on these principles, we will also be able to withstand future crises. (applause) i would like to thank the
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear prime minister sanna marin, allow me very shortly to express in portuguese my condolences to the british people. uma vez mais em nome do grupo do ppe, mas agora em português, eu quero expressar a profunda solidariedade com o pesar de todo o povo britânico pelo falecimento da rainha isabel ii, a que os portugueses estão ligados por uma profunda afeição e também pela mais velha aliança de defesa do mundo. dear prime minister, i must start by congratulating finland, the finnish people, and you as their elected representative on your decision to join nato. this is one of the most important geopolitical accomplishments of the 21st century, not only because it reinforces finland’s security, but also because it strengthens the entire euro-atlantic community and our collective security. each european here gains by having finland join nato, just as we did by having finland join the european union. it is a step that requires great courage by the finnish people and that completes the process of full reintegration of finland with our community of origin and destiny. in fact, europe would never be complete without finland and its contribution. there is no european culture without finnish culture. our diversity is much richer for having in our linguistic heritage a non—indo—european language which truly opens the horizons of europe. no one can imagine european literature without the kalevala or without the name of eino leino. european architecture would not be the same without the architectural and design works of alvar aalto – not to mention the constitutional and democratic contribution of the 1919 finnish constitution, which influenced the way the powers of the head of state president are shaped in constitutions such as the austrian, icelandic, irish, french of 58, portuguese and the constitutions after the fall of the wall, such as the lithuanian, romanian, polish or czech. finland, the land of a thousand lakes, can always count on our support, on our solidarity in every respect. in this moment of grave danger, with war raging in our continent, finland must know that 26 other european countries and the broader euro-atlantic community stands with you in any challenges that putin’s and the kremlin’s war may bring. and we know that we can count on you for the same because of finnish resolve that was proved on many occasions across history. yes, the 27, we stand for ukraine and for the ukrainian path towards the european union. we stand for the six balkan member states’, the georgian and moldovan path to the european union. turning to my mother language... neste contexto de tempos conturbados gostaria ainda de fazer algumas perguntas. estamos a viver na europa uma série de velhos e novos desafios gerados e agravados por esta guerra de agressão. comecemos pela energia. precisamos de criar uma verdadeira união energética. que propostas e que visão tem a finlândia para este setor? a finlândia apoia a construção das interconexões em toda a europa, na grécia, na península ibérica, na itália, para diversificar as nossas fontes de energia? que importância atribui ao investimento nas renováveis? e que lugar reserva para a energia nuclear na europa? olhando para a situação económica, a pressão da inflação e a subida das taxas de juro, e até para um risco real de recessão, deve a união europeia ajudar as famílias e as empresas? deve haver uma windfall tax sobre os lucros extraordinários? como vê a finlândia a reforma da zona euro e a solidariedade dos estados-membros? o que fazer com a crise alimentar e o futuro da agricultura na união europeia? finalmente, como os finlandeses sabem melhor do que ninguém, esta crise mudou a nossa visão sobre a defesa. já o disse, a entrada da finlândia na nato é um dos factos geopolíticos mais relevantes destes 22 anos do séc. xxi. que projeto tem a finlândia para a construção de uma defesa europeia comum? como olha para o desenvolvimento de uma indústria europeia uniforme? como perspetiva a relação do pilar europeu de defesa com a nato? como valoriza a relação transatlântica? dear prime minister, we know that ukraine, above all of us, but also finland, the baltics, poland, slovakia, hungary, romania, all the european union and europe, as well as the whole world, are living in very worrying and challenging times. but in the epp group, we keep faith and hope, keep the belief in the european way of life, because we deeply trust in the ancient wisdom of the finnish people and so together with you, we can say:”hätä keinot keksii”. ‘necessity is the mother of invention.’ «a necessidade aguça o engenho.» ”hätä keinot keksii”.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam prime minister, madam sanna, first of all, welcome, welcome, on behalf of the socialist and democratic group and on my own behalf: it is a great pleasure to have you here today. and that is that, since the beginning of your mandate, and very much despite the historical challenges we face, such as the pandemic, the war... you continue to lead finland in a stable and strong way, and you do it with a european heart, knowing that only by working together, only by staying united and only by strengthening solidarity we can build the courageous path forward. yes, prime minister, because we need brave men and women like you: brave women who do not shrink from putin's threats and who have, with determination, led their country into nato; brave women who not only make the citizens of finland feel safer and more protected, but also the members of nato and europe; brave women who build and strengthen a safer world order, based on law, human rights and peace. and it's brave women like you who shape the future and end up studying in the history books! (applause) thousands of ukrainian civilians have lost their lives since that terrible february 24th, millions have been displaced or have fled to their neighbouring countries. in the face of putin's atrocities, the union has taken historic action, and finland's support and your leadership, prime minister, have been essential to that. and, the more threats from putin, the more unity you will find! now putin wants to sow division by cutting off our energy supply, hoping this will incite a great deal of social unrest that will cause distrust of our institutions. we won't allow it! like you said, this is not the time to keep doing the same old thing, we have to do things differently. and that is that changing the rules of the electricity market is not enough, no: we must urgently stop speculation in the gas market, increase its transparency, build the necessary infrastructure and tax the exorbitant profits to help those who have the most difficulty, because the best antidote against putin and his anti-european allies of the far right is that of more cohesive and democratic societies, resilient and able to respond and to put solutions. our welfare states must be strengthened, and the advance of poverty and inequality must be halted; that is why we must move forward in a social europe: because beyond these immediate emergency measures we need to continue moving towards a horizon. the european union is, as the treaties make clear, a union of common values, and therefore we must not allow orbán and his anti-european colleagues to hold us hostage in order to be able to act at a global level, so the time has come to move towards a system of qualified majority decision-making, and you have referred to this issue in your speech, and we welcome it. prime minister, as social democrats we know that the green and digital transitions will only be possible with a strong social dimension. this is how we ensure the well-being of citizens in all its dimensions, this is how we will achieve more equality: yes, also gender equality, a real equality where women in politics are not required to do three times as much as men. because, as you know, dear sanna, we have come to stay, to forge our rights, to decide on our lives and the lives of the women and men of the union, because yes. that is how there will be more women and more young women willing to write the future, and that is how we want to shore up this new page in the progress of europe and of humanity.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr prime minister, mr sanna, thank you for your excellent speech, which gives a comprehensive analysis of the situation in europe. europe has gone from the corona crisis to the brutal russian war of aggression, and we are still in a tough spot. this winter will test the unity of the european union. so far, the corona and the war have only united europe. finland and sweden, we are on our way to nato, which is the only right solution. the eu's common defence will be strengthened. the case must also be sustained in energy and food policy. it is the responsibility of our decision-makers to make decisions that are fast and effective, and to communicate clearly the meaning of these decisions to all citizens. it is also important to avoid political polarization and blockage in europe as much as possible, because defending our values, especially on a global scale, requires unity and determination. we europeans must not step on the mines that putin has planted. it is clear that the purpose of the russian aggressive war has also been to destabilize the energy market and thereby to break up our united front. putin is also using hunger as a weapon, as ukrainian food production and exports have been made extremely difficult. now, if ever we face an external threat, we must work for unity, for only a strong front will get us through these difficult times. strategic autonomy, as the prime minister mentioned, is also a top priority for renew europe. energy, security of supply and critical raw materials must be addressed if we are to contribute to increasing self-sufficiency and stability. as decision-makers, we must ensure that european energy production is increased and that our electricity market is adapted in such a way that the price of gas does not skyrocket the electricity bills of citizens. for us at renew europe, the promotion of renewable energy is at the heart of it. biogas, forest-based energy, wind, nuclear, solar, hydropower, geothermal and all other sustainable means in use are needed to break europe's dependence on russian fossil energy. i hope that this practical approach will be taken both in the decision-making of the european council and in the forthcoming energy votes in parliament. it is particularly important now to also tap into sustainable biomass-based energy sources, which will help both in the midst of an acute energy crisis and in achieving the eu's ambitious renewable energy targets. sustainable forest management plays a very important role in this equation, and it should not be forgotten. dear prime minister, food security is not just a european concern. exceptional droughts and wildfires, but also floods, are a problem all over the world. the eu must be more active on the world food market. it all comes down to taking care of the home. i am referring to the strengthening of european food production, competitiveness and profitability. i would like to ask the prime minister what action you think is necessary at eu level to strengthen european and global food security. the fact is that if we do not take responsibility for this ourselves, hunger and the resulting refugee and migrant flows will increase in the world. every human being needs to be taken care of. the unfortunate fact is that in the midst of these protracted crises, europe as a whole is heavily indebted. the shadow side of this is the appearance of economic growth, but even in times of crisis we should look beyond this and, in every decision we take, bear in mind that future generations will pay our bills. stabilising the economy, supporting a strong eu internal market and promoting trade relations are the cornerstones of building a strong union of the future.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to welcome the prime minister. on behalf of the greens and the european free alliance, it’s really a pleasure to see you here because your presence reminds us that, actually, every national government also, as part of the european council, has european responsibilities. it’s really important that we keep that spirit, that member states are absolutely crucial to the advancement of the european union. many things that you said were actually music to my ears. and i would say there is little to disagree with you on. your country is certainly better placed to know the true nature of the russian dictatorship. your warnings and those of many former soviet bloc countries, now member states of the european union, have been ignored. for too long, there has been complacency, i would say, especially in the biggest member states – germany, france, italy – towards russia, and now we are paying the price for that, and you were right to point that out. your affirmation, of course, that united we stand stronger – you know, this is the motto of my country: l’union fait la force, and this is the motto of the european union as well. i like also very much – and coming from you, it’s interesting –your insistence that, yes, fiscal rules are needed, but actually, they need to take into account the social and environmental dimensions, and that is also welcome. also, a prime minister saying that we need to tackle energy speculation is good because there’s many people who still assert that speculation is good for the markets, you know, but we also know the downsides and the extraction possibilities that give these gifts to economic players. having said this, i think real friends have a duty to be frank with one another. and i would like to confront at least two of the key aspects of your speech to the reality of policy—making in finland. of course, the first is through a green transition. finland often portrays itself as a leader of the green transition, and indeed, at the last climate conference, in glasgow, your country boasted about its ambition to be climate—neutral by 2035, 15 years ahead of the european union. these bold plans turn out to be, actually, a false promise: the massive carbon sink provided by your country’s forests was supposed to be the cornerstone, the foundation of the plan. i say ‘was’ because it turns out that in reality, the land sector, including forests, of course, now emits more carbon than was thought, so it’s no longer a carbon sink due to harmful industrial forestry practices disguised as sustainable forestry management. but forests are not only vital to our climate strategy; when properly managed, they are also a haven of biodiversity. there again, i cannot understand that your government has actively worked against every eu initiative to include the preservation of biodiversity in forestry legislation in agricultural policy. the other source of major disappointment is your government’s decision to join the so-called frugal coalition. at the height of the pandemic, when fiscal solidarity was most needed, your government, rather than extending a helping hand, stood in the way. sure, you came around in the end, but the impression remains that for your government and for many people in finland, every euro cent invested in our common endeavours would actually be better spent at home. let me remind you – and you said it yourself – that all the members of what i call the ‘stingy coalition’ are massive net beneficiaries of the european integration project, if only because of membership of the single market. and sooner or later, even the frugal end up needing the solidarity of others. both sweden and finland are now seeking the security guarantees of their new nato partners. so my message is simple: membership of a club is not and can never be a one—way street. its benefits come hand-in-hand with responsibilities and commitments. prime minister marin, under your leadership, i hope and i believe that the finnish government will come to realise that it is in finland’s best interest to actually be – rather than claim to be – among the leaders of the green revolution, and that fiscal solidarity between member states is not a waste of money, but a sound investment in our common future. under your leadership and with the finnish greens at your side, prime minister, this can actually happen, so just do it.
madam president, madam prime minister, i have to ask you to leave. the scandinavians are famous for their pragmatism, and that is precisely what i find lacking in the current eu policy. so i ask you to be a partner in running a strong union, focused on the most pressing issues facing the citizens of europe. according to the latest eurobarometer survey, half of europeans think the eu economy is in a bad state. citizens are primarily concerned about the rising cost of living and the disruption of energy supply. a sober assessment of our citizens' situation is a wake-up call to all of us to offer real solutions. first of all, we must stop the eu economy from plunging into the abyss, and russia's shameful aggression against ukraine from dragging us down with it. every eu citizen is already feeling the effects of the failed sanctions policy, from the recession bill to food prices. if we stay on this path, the recession will return and unemployment will rise. the numbers clearly show that sanctions against the russians are hurting us more than the aggressor. so this is where we need a complete change of direction. energy policy reform proposals should be judged on the basis of their contribution to security of supply. whether they achieve a reduction in the consumer price of energy and whether they take into account the specificities of the member states, their different dependence on gas. the proposed gas price cap would clearly undermine our security of supply. although only nine percent of the eu's gas comes from russia, it is concentrated in one region, central europe. the price cap would stop russian gas imports, and central europe, which has no access to the sea, would be more likely to absorb them than the others. moreover, the hidden sanction is a de facto gas embargo, which should be discussed at the european council, that is, at your level, not as simple legislation. the third thing i'd like your cooperation on is to banish ideology from professional issues. so i'm counting on you to say that we need nuclear power for security of supply and for the green transition. similarly, european companies and families need practical and real help. instead, we're arguing over a bunch of overly politicized rules. the mindless indebtedness of future generations must be stopped. a responsible fiscal policy should be pursued. instead of increasing administrative burdens, companies, especially smes, should be relieved of their burden. finally, madam prime minister, instead of pursuing federalist dreams without any contractual basis, we must return to a culture of good faith and mutual respect between the member states. please be a partner in ending the school system so we can end the unrestricted rule of law debate. there is no dispute between us that eu funds must be used in a proper and transparent manner. existing ideological differences must be dissociated from the negotiations on the disbursement of funds. this would finally give the hungarians access to the resources they are entitled to. thank you, madam prime minister, for helping us to implement these principles that will strengthen the unity of europe.
prime minister of finland. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your speeches, your remarks and your comments, including those critical ones. they're all welcome. some of the remarks and replies to them: first of all, i would like to thank all the member states of the union for the warm support we have received, together with finland and sweden, during our nato membership process. if anything is left of this war in putin's hands, it is two more european countries joining nato. putin is going to lose this war. ukraine will win the war with our support, and as a result of all this russia will be poorer and finland and sweden members of nato. (applause) i would like to thank the so thank you very much for this. the energy issues were very much overlooked in the speeches here, which is understandable, because we are in the third major crisis in a few years. energy is our biggest challenge right now. it is our biggest challenge now in the fall, it is our biggest challenge next winter, and it is also our biggest challenge in the years to come. unfortunately, this is not a question that will be solved quickly, and this is our great challenge for the coming years. finland has been making the energy transition for a very long time. we are not as dependent on russian fossil energy as many other member states are. we have diversified our energy mix in time, we have invested in renewable energy, we also have nuclear power to rely on in this situation, so we have a very diversified energy mix. but we see that the fact that we are self-sufficient or that we in finland have made these decisions in the past is not enough and does not help, but that the whole of europe must at last make the decisions we need now in order to be able to move away from fossil fuels as a whole. i think we should admit our mistakes. we must admit our mistakes as europe. we have made a mistake in relying on russian energy, which has been cheap in the past. we have built our thinking about russia on the mistaken assumption that when we economically bind ourselves together, a war like this would be avoided because it would be so expensive. this has been a misconception, and we must admit that we have been wrong. this has been a mistake on the part of europe, but we must not be complacent, but we must recognize it, we must look ahead, show solidarity with each other and seek solutions together: how can we together invest in renewable energy more quickly, how can we together build european transmission networks, how can we together support each other so that we can survive this coming autumn, next winter and the coming years. clearly, the reason we have a problem is not because we invest in renewable energy or make the green transition. our biggest problem is that we haven't done this in time. we should have made this shift to a climate and environmental sustainable economy much, much earlier. if we did, we wouldn't be in this blackmail box that russia is using against us. paulo rangell asked what we think of, for example, the windfall tax, this funding which we could then direct towards the citizens. finland is very open to this and we have also started preparations in our own national decisions to enable a windfall tax. but, of course, common european solutions would be much more sensible and much more effective here too, and we do support the work that the commission is doing. there's been some speeches about the food crisis. this is a real concern. this is a very big concern and as i said in that opening speech, the african issue is really our issue because if we are not able to take care of not only ourselves and our own citizens but also the wider population in our neighbourhood, we will see it in increased unrest, violence, perhaps even war. we will see this as a huge migration of people towards europe, and we must all be able to prevent this by helping our friends in africa and the rest of the world. so yes, europe must invest heavily in its own food production and self-sufficiency in food production, while helping those who need our help. european values were also well represented. i think we have to look at the reality that we are living in at the moment in a very harsh way. the russian invasion of ukraine is only one part of the struggle of values that we see in the world. we have a war of values going on in the world at the moment: authoritarian countries pursuing their policies, questioning the international multilateral rules-based system, the fact that we have common rules of the game in the world by which we operate. these countries do not respect human rights, they do not respect the rights of their citizens, and they would like to see europe and other western countries weak in this situation. we have a battle of values going on, and we must work together to ensure that democratic values win. we have no other choice, and the way we can do this is by showing strength, by being strong in helping ukraine, strong in strengthening our own capabilities in europe. we can't be the blue-eyed ones. we can't be naive about this. we cannot be weak, and i think it is also worth asking whether the war in ukraine could have been avoided if europe had been stronger earlier. should we have been much more forceful when russia occupied crimea? if we had acted more decisively at that time, if we had acted more forcefully, would this war have been started, would russia have seen that it could attack the territory of another sovereign state? (applause) i would like to thank the then there were questions about finland's climate targets. we're really ambitious in our goal of being carbon neutral by 2035. we also want to strengthen the diversity of our nature. we want to ensure that environmental considerations are also taken into account in our policy, and this is also our message to the other european countries and to the rest of the world. it's also good to see the reality we live in. finland is the most forested country in europe, together with sweden. our economy is very much dependent on our forestry industry, which i believe is sustainable, and that is a matter of the utmost importance to our people. but i do want to believe that it is possible to simultaneously make a strong progressive climate policy, protect natural diversity and build a strong economy, and i want to show that, and the finnish government wants to show by its own actions that by acting to combat climate change and for nature we can also succeed nationally. we can create new green jobs, new social prosperity and take care of our own citizens. this aspect, which iratxe garcía pérez has well highlighted in her speech, namely the social dimension of the green transition, is also a very important issue. finally, there was the issue of equality, which was also raised in many speeches. i strongly believe that when we have diversity in decision-making - different people from different backgrounds, women, men, younger people, older people and people from different social classes, different backgrounds, highly educated but also people who grew up in working class families as decision-makers - then we make the best decisions together. we need all people to take part in the decisionmaking process, because we represent all the citizens of europe here in this chamber. we also need diversity in decision-making, and i am pleased that in finland the government led by five women has made very progressive policies. at the same time we have been able to cope with these enormous crises in which we are all living, but we have also made enormous reforms in finnish society, some of which i could mention. we have, among other things, made a historic reform of family leave, with the aim of equally giving fathers and mothers the same amount of family leave. we have made a historic reform of compulsory education, i.e. we have extended compulsory education in finland, and in this way we are ensuring that our citizens are better educated in the future. at the same time, as we have dealt with the pandemic, we have made a historic and very big reform of social and health care in finland. so we are not just women and representing some gender as if we were the faces, but we do make tough politics and tough politics just as anyone in these positions would. that is why we are here, regardless of our gender, background or age, to work for the good of the citizens and for the benefit of the citizens, and when we have diversity in decision-making, i think that the decisions are better. i thank you very much for this opportunity to come and talk to you, and thank you very much for your speeches! (members show their support for the speaker by standing)
thank you very much, prime minister. that concludes the item. (the sitting was suspended at 11.47)
the presidency naturally shares your concern and your speech and i will of course convey your speech to president metsola. this parliament will react as always with great authority and with great promptness.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would first of all like to thank all the colleagues that have voted in favour of this very important instrument. this will make us serious about our combat not only against global deforestation, but also against biodiversity loss and our fight against climate change. so therefore i would like to ask you, madam president, to request the matter be referred back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations in accordance with rule 59(4).
that concludes the voting. (the sitting was suspended at 12.37 p.m.)
the agenda includes the report by dennis radtke and agnes jongerius, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on an adequate minimum wage in the european union (com ((2020) 0682 - c9-0337/2020 - 2020/0310 ((cod)) (a9-0325/2021).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. tomorrow is a very special day, because tomorrow we will open a new chapter in the history of european social policy. i know it's not for everyone, but you have to live with it. it's always like that when we legislate. it's not a particular problem in this house. i think that applies to every national parliament. you can't please everybody. but as a co-rapporteur, i can say that i look with pride at the result of what we are putting to the vote tomorrow, and i want to make it very clear that we have found broad support, not only in the vote in the committee, but also on the council's side. who would have thought that possible a year ago on a dossier which has already been emotionally discussed before nicolas schmit even put the proposal on the table. there was a lot of talk and a lot of wild ideas and debates about what could be in there. it was not really thought possible that we would get so much support. all the more reason to be happy that it worked. i would just like to thank all those involved, first of all, of course, my co-rapporteur, agnes jongerius. i don't think we ever let ourselves be divided. even on the points where we once disagreed, at least no one else noticed that we both disagreed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the interaction with the commission, with the permanent representative of france, was also wonderful and in the end contributes or has contributed to what is to be voted on tomorrow. the vote tomorrow, i believe, will be a concrete contribution to the realisation of the social market economy as a principle of european union governance. a target of 80% wage restraint in each eu member state is, in my view, a real game changer in the political debate, at least in many countries, including the political debate in my own country, where unfortunately the rate of wage restraint is only 50%. i therefore believe that we are going to put in place an instrument which will be helpful in this debate and which will also strengthen the spirit of social partnership in the european union, because when you read the report, it runs like a red thread through this dossier. we want to strengthen the social partnership, we want to involve the social partners more in the debate on the level of minimum wages, on the adequacy of minimum wages, and i think that in some aspects which are perhaps not so much in the spotlight, we have succeeded in doing things, we have made progress which is more than considerable. we have now, for the first time, succeeded in establishing in a european legal framework a kind of protection of collective bargaining, of the right to conduct collective bargaining. we have now for the first time struck such a blow, where we also make it clear that the rights of trade unions, to move forward on this important point, are protected by trade union members and functionaries. i think this is a very important aspect, particularly in relation to a subject such as union busting, which has not played a role in the public debate so far, but which i consider to be elementary. so i would like to take this opportunity to appeal once again for approval. i believe that, in view of the current crisis, this is the right signal to be given by this house: strengthening the social partnership, including strengthening workers' rights, in the direction of fairer and more equitable pay. i would like to ask you again to give your consent tomorrow.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, for more and more people, work is not a way out of poverty. if your energy bill eats up a third of your salary, if the rent is weighing you down, and if you're not sure if you can still do your shopping at the end of the month, then it's done. i think we can say that our law for fair minimum wages in europe is not coming any time soon. nearly one in five workers earn the minimum wage or just over it. often, they are women, people with a migrant background or young people in low-paid jobs. higher wages and livelihood security are needed to enable them to pursue their dreams. they're people who work in home care, who take orders in distribution centers, or who stand behind the counter in the store. they deserve our respect, they deserve our appreciation. it is time for change, because i believe we are facing a hot autumn full of tensions and strikes. but more than that, i fear the coming winter, when people will have to choose between eating on the table or heating on. we can't let that happen. our law sets conditions for a fair minimum wage. she's formulating a bottom line for decency. the minimum wage must provide a living wage and take account of inflation. only four european countries currently meet this new standard of decency. we are concerned that all member states should do so as soon as possible. germany has already made a huge blow last year. belgium is taking action to close the gap before our law comes into force. the minimum wage in the netherlands must also be raised, not by one euro, but by four or five euros. our neighbours are opting for measures, whereas the dutch government is demonstrating its own powerlessness. the minimum wage will not be raised until next year, but then it will still be a double-digit job, whereas at least 14 euros are needed. earlier, commissioner schmit justified higher wages in this parliament with the statement 'because it makes economic sense!'. the small and mediumsized businesses are also affected when people have no money to buy things. let us avoid sinking into a deep crisis. people should just be able to buy bread from the baker on the corner. i join my co-rapporteur in calling on all members of the european parliament to vote tomorrow on the european law on fair minimum wages. i'm counting on your vote.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, on 7 june, after intense and constructive negotiations, we reached a provisional agreement on a directive for adequate minimum wages in the eu. this is a great success by the co-rapporteurs, agnes jongerius and dennis radtke, the chair, dragoș pîslaru, the french council presidency and the german, portuguese and slovenian presidencies before them. i salute and thank them all. tomorrow, hopefully with the approval of this directive, this will become an historic moment for social europe, but i would say for europe. it is a crucial step towards the implementation of the european pillar of social rights. but above all, it is a very concrete message to all those millions of workers and the majority of women and young people who work hard and often earn little. and let’s remember the essential workers we liked to talk about during the covid pandemic – many of them earning low wages, sometimes not even minimum wages. this achievement could not be more timely. we are all confronted with the economic and social consequences of russia’s aggression against ukraine. and in the current juncture, where inflation, spiralling energy and food prices and increasing living costs are affecting millions of households in europe, adequate minimum wages are more important than ever. the eroding purchasing power of low-income households and the risk of increases in poverty and inequality are a major cause of concern for the resilience of our societies and of our democracy. and in this context, tackling in-work poverty becomes even more pressing. ensuring that workers in the union earn adequate minimum wages is essential to guaranteeing adequate working and living conditions, and to building fair, sustainable and inclusive economies and societies, as set out in principle 6 of the european pillar of social rights. precisely, the pandemic showed us how much we rely on care workers, cleaners, delivery workers, shopkeepers, many of them women. already in 2020, before the inflation that we see now, almost 9% of eu workers were at risk of in-work poverty and we owe them this directive. the result of the trilogues is the good and balanced compromise on the table today. when implemented, the directive will establish an eu framework for the adequacy of statutory minimum wages, promoting collective bargaining, and i insist on the importance of the promotion and strengthening of collective bargaining in this directive and of enhancing the effective access of workers to minimum wage protection in the eu. this is also a very important element in the context of better and stronger social convergence – convergence between member states in the union. it will introduce a combination of policy measures to improve minimum wage adequacy and increase access to minimum wage protection. and some measures apply only to those countries with statutory minimum wage-setting systems and others to all members. and i repeat and insist that no member state can be obliged to introduce a statutory minimum wage. of course, the directive will fully respect the autonomy of the social partners, the specificities of national systems and national competences. it will also provide sufficient flexibility to member states to adjust minimum wages, taking into account their social and economic conditions. i want to thank you all and especially the co-rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs and their teams for contributing to this important step to make social europe a tangible reality for millions of workers in the eu. the new rules on minimum wages will protect the dignity of work. they will make sure that work pays. and these are the words, by the way, of the president of the commission, madam von der leyen, used in her first speech when she announced that the commission would present such a proposal. we have delivered, and i hope, tomorrow, all together, we will deliver.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, my mother worked as a cleaning person all her life. in luxembourg she earned the minimum wage, which was good, but food, healthcare, schoolbooks, clothes – it was very difficult to make ends meet. and this is what we tried to fix with this directive on the adequacy of minimum wages in the eu. because eu citizens that wake up each morning, go to work, contribute to society, should be able and afford to make a decent living. so, please vote in favour of this text tomorrow. it is a clear sign to eu citizens that we want a more social, a more equal and a more european union of respect.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the first question, mr president, is not that i do not want to answer it, but that i think it is completely irrelevant what i think. if i think whether or not there should be negotiations as long as there are russian soldiers in ukraine, what does it matter? it doesn't matter what i think. what matters is what the ukrainians think. i can't put myself in his place. on the subject of sanctions, i do think it is important that we insist that sanctions are effective. and that we can't lift the sanctions before they're in effect. they don't have immediate effect. this is like a slimming cure. you start dieting and after a week you complain that you have not lost many pounds. of course you didn't. it's been a while. you must keep up the pace, because otherwise the pounds you lose will come back very quickly. that takes time. now, are you telling me whether or not to talk to the leader of russia? look, diplomats are trained to talk to anyone who needs to be talked to. and there are certainly things that need to be discussed with the current leadership of russia. president macron spoke a few days ago with president putin about safety at the zaporiyia nuclear power plant. should we talk about security at that plant or not? of course we have to talk. and with whom? well, whoever's in the command post in russia. we can't talk to anyone else. of course we have to talk about problems like this. and we'll have to keep doing it. that's what diplomatic channels are for. and there are things that cannot be resolved without the active participation of the russian authorities. and i give you the example of the zaporiyia nuclear power plant. of course we need to talk to them to see how the security of that facility can be guaranteed. and of course we have spoken to russia through the united nations so that ukrainian agricultural products can be exported.
mr borrell, in the meantime a great many questions have been put, which show that we are very concerned. i think that europe has clearly shown its teeth by acting in unity in its response to russia in the wake of the crisis in ukraine. my question is how we are going to preserve that unity. we all know we need to expand the sanctions list. how will you ensure that unanimity is maintained in the extension of the sanctions list? and what are we going to do about russian disinformation? because it's a problem, you know? a second question. you know my views on the european defence union. if this is not the moment to take mega steps forward, i don't know when it will be. you just said you're not the minister of defence of europe. i would have liked to. i would have liked you to be secretary of state and secretary of defense. but what steps are you going to push through or coordinate? call it what you want, but we're gonna have to get to that european army and we're gonna have to get to it very, very quickly. and a third question. very short: the nuclear safety. you say, "yes, we need to talk and we need to be diplomatic". as a citizen, i'm really concerned about nuclear safety. your answer remains a little vague. can you be more specific?
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. we have a roadmap, madam member, we have the strategic compass: we have to apply it; that document is not meant to be kept in a drawer or in a library, it has to be put into practice. and, as you say, we now have a powerful incentive to do so: we have now seen the ears of the wolf or, if you prefer, the claws of the bear, but we have now seen that there is an obvious threat which until now was theoretical, but now it is very real. i hope that this will encourage member states to strengthen their defence capabilities and to do so in a coordinated manner. in a coordinated way: not yet the european army in the singular, but let us try to have the european armies, in the plural, increase their capacities by avoiding duplication and also avoiding gaps, because if each european state increases its military capacity without taking into account what the others are doing, the result will be a great waste of resources. it would be a big waste of the money of european taxpayers. if we want to spend not more but better, it has to be done in a coordinated manner and that's what we're trying to do. so let's see by the end of this year if we are able to implement some of the measures of the strategic compass. let's see if the member states are ready to provide us with the modules to build this rapid reaction force. let's see if we continue working with the fiscal programmes and if the european defence agency provides guidance and people follow this guidance in order to avoid more duplications and avoid more gaps in our military capabilities. this is a good occasion because we europeans thank god forgot about war. war was something that was happening very far away, and now it's happening on our borders, with the sense of the dramatic, the sense of the situation in which the citizen has to understand that defense capabilities are not a luxury. the less, the better? no, no it's no longer the less, the better! we need to have capacity to face the challenges of our world, and what is happening in ukraine is a good example that these challenges are not theoretical but real. the european parliament can play an important role in order to explain to the european citizens what this is about.
i have one last question, mr borrell. we had a meeting of the foreign affairs committee last night. we discussed an opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. that was mainly about how europe should function now. because actually -- and it might be naughty to say this -- the biggest problem europe has right now is how it functions at the moment. we had the conference on the future of europe. we've had all these citizen panels that have made excellent proposals. so my question to you is: do you agree to carry out these proposals? i'll call them you: the european union must work very quickly to abolish unanimity, launch a convention, create a european army - i keep repeating it, every week - and finally strengthen its own role: i am sure that in the future we will have a real foreign minister of the european union.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – it would be strange that they will not be in favour of reinforcing my role and the role of my successors. it would be very strange if my answer would be ‘no, no, no, i don’t want to reinforce my role’. certainly i want to, and if we could take decisions by qualified majority, it would be much easier. because more and more, you know, there is not incentive to participate in the debate because the unanimity means at the end veto rights for everyone. and if you have the veto right, then you know that nobody can do anything without you. you don’t have an incentive to participate in the debate and to form a coalition in order to get something good for you, you just sit in your corner and wait for them to come and to buy you. well, to buy you, i mean, to make proposals that you could accept in order to change your position. but if 27 member states do the same thing, it’s very difficult that we get a quick answer to urgent problems. so, yes, i am very much in favour of having decision—making procedures which are not based on unanimity. but you know what is problem is? in order to abandon unanimity, we need unanimity.
if everyone respects the speaking time, i would try to take four speakers in turn so that all the groups have the opportunity to put a question.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the role of the coordinator should not be overlooked. and in any case, it is absolutely necessary. there is not only the role of the coordinator, there is also the role of taking measures, proposing initiatives and proposals. the coordinator does not sit in his chair to coordinate the actions of others. he's offering shares. at the start of the war, no one had changed, not even the possibility of mobilizing the european peace facility. we're the ones who proposed it. we did not coordinate the demands of the others, we put a concrete proposal on the table. i will put on the table a concrete proposal in the coming days, to go to the sixth tranche of military aid, under the european peace facility. and frankly, my ambitions and abilities are limited. because i know that in matters of defence, the member states remain sovereign, that defence is a capacity and a competence of the states, and that i am not here to try to build something outside the treaties, but to draw from the treaties all their potential. it is therefore a matter of making proposals and coordinating their implementation. with that, believe me, for now, we're well served.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. yes, yes, of course we have to fight against this kind of behavior, but we have to know how. and we must be very careful that in doing so we do not push some countries even further towards a position different from ours. next week we will have the united nations week in new york. we shall be meeting almost all the representatives of the countries of the world, and in particular of the african countries. and we will have to have a dialogue with them that does not raise any more reservations and that, on the contrary, leads us down a path of cooperation. i've said it several times this afternoon. and let me reiterate: africa has reason to ask the developed world to take its problems into account. and their problems have been made worse by climate change, by the pandemic, and by the aftermath of war. the pandemic is not our fault. certainly not. but in climate change, to a large extent, we have more responsibility than they do. and we have to keep that in mind, because when we see that we have problems of forest fires, high temperatures, that is nothing. that is a lot, but compared with what the countries affected by drought and famine suffer, yours is much more dramatic, much more serious. we have to be aware of their problems. that's the best answer we can give them.
mr president, i would like to say to the high representative that he emphasised just a few minutes ago that obviously member states have the remit to do defence policy, but still, as european leaders, we also have the responsibility to try to coordinate as best we can common efforts to support ukraine’s defence of their own sovereignty and their own borders. in the past, many european leaders have rejected the call from ukraine to provide modern tanks to help the ukrainian army to fight more effectively. more recently, rumours have it that the american administration might be charting a new course. my question to you, high representative, is, can you inform us where that conversation stands at the moment?
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i do not know what discussions the honourable member is referring to, i only know what i know, and what i know is that we will continue to support ukraine with our unwavering capabilities. the united states can do what it sees fit, but we have to do our part, and we are doing our part. we shouldn't be flogging ourselves: we're doing it. if you add up the contributions made by the member states and the european union, mr president, we are not far from matching the effort made by the united states: our support has been fundamental. the united states too, of course, but what i think we should convey is that we have done a lot, that thanks to what we have done we are seeing results on the ground and that this military support must continue. the ukrainian minister told me yesterday when i spoke to him by telephone to prepare this debate that they will continue to fight to defend their territorial sovereignty and for russia to assume its political, economic and moral responsibilities in the destruction of ukraine; for russia to assume its political, economic and moral responsibilities in the destruction of ukraine: that is the objective we have to set ourselves to continue our aid as well. that is what he tells me and that is what i tell them, but for that, public opinion must support him.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. one thing has nothing to do with the other. military aid to ukraine is one thing, but compliance with european standards is another. and i think there is no do ut des: as you help ukraine a lot you have less obligation to comply with european standards. no, your honor, they're two different things. i don't get into it because it's not my paper, it's not my portfolio. it is not my responsibility to assess poland's compliance with this or that situation. but what i have to say is that the fact that poland supports ukraine very much - and very, very much - does not exempt it from fulfilling its obligations as a member state in other areas.
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam member, you and i want the same thing: we want the war to end, to end as soon as possible, but i, like you, am concerned about how it will end. i want it to end as soon as possible, but i'm not indifferent to how the war ends. no, no, as soon as possible, but not in any way. that's what i think we have to be clear about, because if we stop helping ukraine, the war may end sooner, but don't you care that the war ends with a country dominated by an aggressor power? don't you care how ukrainians will live after the war is over? yes, he does, of course he does: i am sure he does not want russia to succeed in its aggression against ukraine either. you say to me: what do you do to build peace? what we are doing at the moment is helping ukraine to defend itself against aggression; that is what we are doing, and i believe that is a necessary step towards achieving a peace worthy of the name.
at the g7 summit earlier this month, the leaders of the participating countries agreed to set a price cap for russian oil exports, triggering a strong reaction from the russian side, with putin declaring that in case this happens, he would stop exporting oil to europe. therefore, dear josep, i would like to ask you to elaborate a bit further on our possibility to enforce this decision without generating a boomerang effect on our economies and on our citizens. one of the main options put forward by the analysts is to deny russia the access to the london insurance market, which covers around 95 % of the global oil shipping. do you think this would be a sufficient deterrent? and is there a consensus among the eu member states to proceed this way? also, i believe that one of the main objectives of our elections should be to enlarge the number of countries worldwide that would support this initiative, in order to consolidate the bloc of liberal democracies opposing this barbaric war. is there any outreach plan to foster cooperation with our partners? and how is it looking at the current stage?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. well, things don't go so smoothly, your honor, because, look, i have some facts to share with you. we are tired of hearing that sanctions are worthless, because russia still has a lot of revenue anyway. well, the latest data shows that, if we compare the period from january to august of this year with that from january to august of last year, the russian budget has received 18% less from oil and gas sales. and that the big surplus that it had is melting away, because in the last two months the revenue from the sale of hydrocarbons has fallen a lot: an 18% fall in january/august over january/august of the revenue of the russian state budget derived from the sale of hydrocarbons. until now, lower quantities sold were offset by higher prices. and, yes, the price of gas has certainly multiplied. but that's not happening anymore. now the quantities have fallen so low that the price increase no longer compensates for the product. the product no longer increases because one of the two factors decreases very quickly. today europeans import five times less russian gas than before the war. do we realize this? why are we not a little more aware of what we have achieved in a short time when we say 'let's get rid of our dependence on russian gas'? we haven't gotten it to 100 percent yet, but five times less is a lot in a short amount of time. so what we have to do is keep doing more of the same. more of the same: reducing consumption, finding alternative energy sources and suppliers, and developing renewable energies. there's no more secret than this. and when i said a few months ago, from that podium, that europeans should reduce the temperature of the heating by one degree, which is the equivalent of reducing consumption by 7%, they said very kind things to me. i got a lot of kindness. well, it wasn't such a stupid idea. because now we're all thinking about cutting back, not one degree, more. and we are going to do it. because, perhaps we need to adjust our heating if that is the price of maintaining and conquering our energy independence. and we are doing it, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing it.
i thank the high representative for foreign affairs and you, ladies and gentlemen, for your support. we have extended question time by 20 minutes so that i can take account of the majority in the house on the one hand and on the other hand each group can put at least one question. that was the purpose of the time dilation. i think it was also a very interesting and very informative question and answer session. the format has proved its worth, and i will close today's question time with this.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in the taiwan strait (2022/2822 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, thank you for this previous debate. it’s a hot topic. now we go to another debate which is not as hot. but is also a debate about one of the more challenging crises in the world. we had an exchange on taiwan last october, almost one year ago, and the least we can say is that, since then, this year, the tension has been increasing across the taiwan strait. certainly, the european border, the middle east and the taiwan strait are the three more challenging places in the world. you know beijing’s reaction to the visit of the us house speaker ms pelosi to taiwan. well, to tell the truth, it did not come as a surprise. i was in phnom penh at the asean meeting when this visit took place. i was in southeast asia together with colleagues like secretary blinken, the state councillor and foreign minister from china, mr wang yi, also minister lavrov was there. so we followed the events lively. and it was certainly an interesting debate about this visit. but the answer from beijing, as i said, did not come entirely as a surprise, but i think to be clear, saying that a visit to taiwan should not provoke military drills or ballistic missile launches, it should not be used as an occasion to intimidate. certainly, china has been toughening its stance on taiwan. we have seen repeated incursions of chinese planes across the median line in the strait. missiles flying over the island, some even landing in japan’s economic zone. china has also issued a new white paper on taiwan, which certainly changes certain parameters for an eventual reunification process. and i want to bring your attention, members of the house, to this white paper. it deserves your attention, believe me. for us, we continue saying the same thing. to preserve peace, stability and the status quo in the taiwan strait is key, not just for the security and prosperity of the region, but also for ours. let me mention two tangible examples that show how important it is for us. we are the largest investor in the island. who has been putting more eggs in the basket of the island? we europeans. the stock, the cumulated stock of our investments reaches eur 45 billion and the taiwan semiconductor production is crucial for the global supply chains. it accounts for almost two thirds of the global semiconductor manufacturing revenues in the world. and, so far as concerns the most advanced chips, the highly sophisticated technological chips, that figure is not two thirds, it is 90%. it would be interesting to study how the taiwanese people have been able to develop in a short time such a powerful and technologically developed industry. it has certainly been with our financial support. and this has naturally led the european union to value even more our partnership with taiwan. to broaden our cooperation with taiwan. to modernise our dialogue with taiwan. but all of it in the framework of one- china policy, which recognises the people’s republic as the sole government of china. let me be clear on this, one-china policy doesn’t prevent us, the european union, from persisting and intensifying cooperation in taiwan, nor from expressing our concerns at the recent rising tensions. honourable members, the key message is that the cross-strait differences should be resolved exclusively by peaceful means. that the threat of use of force to change the status quo is not acceptable. that the status quo has to be preserved and is therefore key to manage tensions in a way that it is not an open conflict. it is in no one’s interest to have another major conflict in today’s unstable world. and let’s also be realistic. the tensions in this trade will not go away. unification with taiwan is now an integral part of president xi jinping’s agenda for national rejuvenation. for them it is a priority. it is part of the so-called core issues. we have to be aware of that. but this will not stop us in our efforts in preserving a stability and a settled world in taiwan. this is, well, the key message for after the debate, but this is what i wanted to tell you.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i can agree with you almost entirely on everything you have just said. i think what we have just experienced this summer, it didn't need the visit of nancy pelosi as a pretext, but what china has hosted there, it was practically an exercise in how to practice a complete sea blockade around the island. this threat, we cannot accept it, and that is why it is right that as a response to it, within the framework that is possible, namely the one-china policy, we expand our relations with taiwan as far as possible. i have been to taiwan and i have used the acronym in english: ebrd everything but formal diplomatic recognition , which is the abbreviation that should enable us to really use the full potential of these relations in the economic field and also in political contacts, and in culture. and we in the european parliament have long called for a bilateral investment protection agreement with taiwan. this would enable both our economy and the taiwanese to extend these existing contacts. we have an interest, for example, in the taiwanese investing in the semiconductor sector. i heard they've started a company in italy and started production there. it needs to be expanded. it's better to do it under a deal like this. please take the liberty. thank you.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, high representative, we have known for a very long time that china has its eyes on taiwan, and yet the situation has never been so alarming. china’s threats following nancy pelosi’s visit, its military exercises, and unprecedented crossings of the median line are unacceptable. experts even say china’s actions are a dress rehearsal for an invasion. dear high representative, the us warned us over russia’s plans to invade ukraine and we refused to see reality. we must not make the same mistake again. we now have two options: either we continue our ‘wait and see’ strategy, as we did for too long with russia, or we decide to act. and my choice is very clear. therefore, i really ask you today to show our support to taiwan by working on that investment agreement. work on a contingency plan, together with like-minded partners, in the event of an escalation and make european defence a reality. it’s the only way to have a say in this geopolitical area.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, high representative, for the eu taiwan is a like—minded partner with whom we share good economic relations, but even more importantly, a common interest in defending human rights, the rule of law and democracy. this is why this parliament has consistently stood in favour of enhancing the eu’s support for taiwan’s democracy in the context of our own one—china policy. unilateral changes of the situation in the taiwan straits will continue to meet our strong opposition. we fully condemn the prc’s threat of the use of force, their continuous provocations and the escalation of threats from beijing against taiwan, which are completely unjustified and an escalation of choice. we want to signal to beijing that a strategy of aggression would come with a very high price for the prc itself, and we want to deter them from undermining security and peace in the region. parliamentary diplomacy has to play a central role in this regard. we will continue travelling to taiwan. we will invite the taiwanese parliament, we will organise a parliamentary week and we will all make efforts to convince our colleagues in national parliaments to form a strong phalanx of solidarity with taiwan.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, mr borrell, it is true that the situation in the taiwan strait is alarming. the dangerous game of the great powers threatens international security in a strategic sector. it is strategic for us europeans, it has been mentioned, because we have interests in it, but above all it is strategic for the indo-pacific and the pacific. it must be said, however, that the visit of the speaker of the house of representatives, nancy pelosi, did not make things better. it wasn't necessarily relevant, it wasn't necessarily timely. in fact, joe biden himself was annoyed by the visit. but of course the response to this sub-diplomatic gesture should also alert us to the nervousness, lack of discernment and disproportionate nature of beijing's actions: to conduct large-scale military activities and thus increase the threat to taiwan in response to this visit is obviously a pretext and it is condemned. europe has a responsibility to play because we must continue to have good relations with taiwan, and its security must be guaranteed. and the two key words, of course, are de-escalation and demilitarization. and for that we are counting on a united europe that maintains the status quo, that maintains the principle of one china, but is obviously a staunch supporter of democracy in taiwan.
madam president, commissioner, high representative, when we talk about taiwan, there’s only one question that really matters: what can we do in practice to avoid the conflict that has been long predicted, that could have catastrophic human costs, and that would represent yet another attempt from autocratic powers to eradicate democracy from their neighbourhoods as it is happening in ukraine? i believe there is only one answer. we have to support taiwan in making clear that the costs of an invasion would be unbearable for beijing. as we cannot the risk of military escalation, we have to rely on what has always been the hallmark of our external action: diplomacy and commercial strength. to do so, it is paramount that we remain united among ourselves, willing to scale up our relations with taipei, including through our bilateral investment agreements, and act as a monolith in countering china’s attempts to destabilize us through propaganda and trade retaliation. therefore, i commend lithuania for opening its trade office in taiwan, and i expect more member states as well as our union as a whole to show the same courage, demonstrating to the world that we stand united in defending our defining values, that we stand firmly next to the brave and democratic people of taiwan.
as many colleagues have underlined, i also condemn the unprecedented level of the prc’s military exercises in the taiwan strait. in addition to these militarily threatening gestures, the communist government in beijing is employing economic and political means, as well as cyberattacks and disinformation campaigns against taiwan. but stability in the taiwan strait is directly linked to our european key interests of maintaining security, prosperity and freedom in the region. yes, the european union maintains the principled one-china policy, but we cannot tolerate unilateral attempts to modify the status quo, and even less so by resorting to force. in light of the continued military build-up, it remains very important for us as a european union that we express our firm solidarity with the people of taiwan, that we refuse to be intimidated or blackmailed by beijing's provocations in the taiwan strait, and that we work together with our key partners such as the united states, south korea, australia and japan to maintain peace and stability in the entire region.
madam president, mr vice-president/high representative, the tension in the taiwan strait is unbearable. china's totally deplorable military actions threaten the stability and peace in the region and the delicate status quo between taiwan and china. the european union must act intelligently, as it is doing. we don't need activist or testimony positions. we need consensus and to defend our values by relying on those who share them as universal principles to regulate globalization and global governance. taiwan is a key partner and is a democratic ally in the indo-pacific. and of course the european union has and must strengthen our bilateral relations with this country. relations between the european union and china have long been frozen over the exchange of sanctions. but we cannot remain paralyzed in our relationship with taiwan. we need to expand them. we need to deepen them as much as possible without breaking the international status quo. the best way to help taiwan is to strengthen ties with this country. and the best way to do that is to work to keep china on our side. on the side of peace, on the side of respect for international law through dialogue.
madam president, taiwan is a vibrant democracy in the indo-pacific, a like-minded society and an important partner with regard to our political engagement, including parliamentary. it is true: the eu accepts the one china policy, but there is a second part to this – one china, two systems. certainly, there is a difference between communism and vibrant democracy. therefore, and with the recent escalation of actions by the prc against taiwan, including threats of full—scale invasion and remembering the example of ukraine and actions of other autocratic actors, we have to send a very clear message to the prc that this kind of policy, in particular from a un security council member, is not acceptable and that we are going to use all our force to stand by taiwan.
madam president, defending democracy, supporting those in government or civil society who are trying to safeguard democracy is a duty, but also a necessity if we are not to put ourselves in danger. authoritarian regimes are on the rise in the world. we must affirm with conviction that democracy is the goal, that democracy is the form of government that is best able to respect human beings and guarantee respect for human rights. many commentators have drawn parallels between the situation in ukraine and that in taiwan. both have a powerful neighbor who considers their territory his. in recent years, russian aggression against ukraine has been growing, while the west has been preaching a conciliatory attitude so that russia does not feel provoked. we've seen the result. an authoritarian country does not need provocations to use force. the only thing that can stop him is the certainty that his attack is doomed to failure. this is what must determine our positions and actions. to make it clear that we do not hesitate to defend democracy. china must know that we stand with taiwan.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, having to present a report like this is a difficult time. hungary is a country of the european union and as such has to respect the values on which the union is founded. if hungary has deviated from these values, we have failed to keep it on the path we want to follow together. it is also a collective failure that we have reached this point. that said, the reproach raised by the defenders of the orbán government that in the other countries of the union one can also find discrepancies that are blamed on the hungarian government is really not valid. indeed, if some states need to work on one or the other point in order to fully respect the rule of law, these countries agree and, in principle, take steps to remedy this. in hungary, the difference is that we are not facing isolated problems, but systemic problems. the gaps in the rule of law have increased rather than being reduced or eliminated. moreover, the hungarian government denies that there are any problems and shows no intention to change anything. we wanted this report - and i thank the rapporteur for having kept to this course all along - to be factual. it identifies violations of the rule of law in strict compliance with the facts. its strength lies in its thorough research and documentation. the evidence comes from official reports and statements by international organisations such as the venice commission, the united nations, the council of europe. reference is also made to the judgments of the court of justice of the european union and the european court of human rights. the scale of the problems covered in the report is shown by the table of contents alone. i would simply like to refer in particular to the problems of judicial independence, which the commissioner has mentioned at length, but also to those relating to media pluralism. i would like to stress this point in particular, because impartial, or at least plural, information is essential for the proper functioning of a democracy. however, public aid is given to the press close to the government, which leads to the weakening of the independence of the media. it is important that the commission and the council move forward with the measures to be taken to influence the attitude of the hungarian government so that the rule of law is restored in hungary.
madam president and commissioner, it’s important at times like these to remind ourselves of the humanitarian principles, that is the obligation on humanitarian organisations to demonstrate independence, impartiality, humanity and neutrality, to deliver aid to the places where it’s needed most and to be completely neutral in armed conflict. the reasons for this are to ensure that aid gets to the people who need it most, but also to protect humanitarian workers. but it is relevant in the context of this debate, because humanitarian organisations are relied upon to create humanitarian corridors, but also to access prisoners of war on both sides of a conflict. we know that’s not happening right now. we don’t get the information we need because russia has no respect whatsoever for humanitarian principles or international humanitarian law. so that’s why we need to have a discussion with humanitarian organisations so they can set out to us here in the european parliament, or our committees, exactly what steps they have been taking to try to access the two million children that have been deported out of ukraine into russia. we need to hear exactly their evidence. the second thing we need to do is not to cut our humanitarian aid budget. at the moment, the commission are proposing the highest cut of any proposed cut under any heading to the 2023 budget to our humanitarian aid budget. we need to put our values in monetary terms sometimes.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! since russia invaded ukraine, over 2 million ukrainian citizens have been deported to russia. he was also the main organiser of the 'bushmen' demonstrations in the southeast of the country. the filtration process that takes place in the camps is the same as in stalin's time. he is responsible for the repression of the ukrainian people in the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. putin wants to destroy ukrainian identity and russify children. russia has abducted over 200,000 ukrainian children, which is almost 6% of the child population of ukraine. we all strongly condemn the forced deportation of civilians and the abduction of children and illegal adoption of ukrainian children. we believe that we are all here in this case agree that we are witnessing the genocide of the ukrainian people. the important thing is that we don't be silent, that it doesn't end in declarations, words of support, words of emotion. and there, children are killed, taken from their homes, abducted, left without care, without help, without hope. today ukraine needs the support of the european union, of all the member states, the support that poland is giving. we have given shelter to ukrainian citizens, but ukraine needs weapons to protect its citizens. god bless the ukraine.
madam president, the unprovoked and unjustified war of aggression launched by the russian federation against ukraine is an attack on the international order. we must condemn it unreservedly and help the ukrainian people in every way to win this war, for the sake of security in europe and the safeguarding of democracy on our continent. but the abuses of russian officials go far beyond concerns about maintaining international order. the very notion of human dignity is annihilated when faced with the deportation of civilians thousands of kilometres from their homes and the forced adoption of ukrainian children in russia. these are abject acts which are a reminder of a time we had hoped would be over on the european continent. however, they are committed on a large scale, as the reported figure is more than 1.5 million ukrainians deported, including more than 200,000 children. these acts cannot go unpunished. we must therefore spare no effort to gather evidence of the crimes committed and bring the perpetrators to justice before an international tribunal as soon as possible.
blue-card speech. – thank you very much for your speech. i would like to ask you if you know how many other countries have not joined eppo.
madam president, ursula von der leyen, in her state of the union address, said that the commission would protect the union budget by using the conditionality mechanism. the commission is doing this with the present proposals concerning hungary, on which the council must now decide. the commission has also taken the view that the measures proposed are intended to protect the union budget, but the shortcomings which have led to these measures clearly show that the rule of law is in danger in hungary. the independence of the judiciary is a major problem. neither the principles of legal certainty nor the prohibition of the arbitrariness of the executive power are guaranteed, which is nevertheless essential in view of the various irregularities, systematic deficiencies and weaknesses in public procurement. the financial interests of the union are clearly at risk. it is inconceivable, especially in the current crisis conditions, when many citizens of the union are struggling to make ends meet, that european funds are allocated in conditions of non-transparency and in a context of increased risk of corruption and conflicts of interest. the council must act quickly!
mr president, the death of mahsa amini is a tragedy. the people of iran are demonstrating exceptional courage in the face of brutal repression. i thought the most appropriate way to condemn the violence of the iranian authorities against its people, and women in particular, was to give voice to those who are revolting. so i will quote one of these anonymous but determined young iranians who are rising up and putting a lot of hope in us. this young iranian had the intention to leave his country but decided to stay and fight. i'm quoting it in english. we believe the world might have a wrong and distorted image from iranian people, especially over the past decades. but we want to correct it. we are not this government, we hate it. we are iranians, from a country with more than 2,500 years of history. we believe in love, peace, human rights. we hate brutal islamic laws. and for this, our children, our young people are being killed by the regime. we might be arrested or killed. but, he continues, this is only the beginning of a profound change. they ask us europeans to help them by refusing to compromise with an oppressive regime. let's support these young iranians in their fight.
blue-card speech. – thank you very much, maria. i know that you are very motivated. you are very hardworking for youth. you mentioned many activities where you participated and actions for youth. but many of our colleagues mentioned that it was late, it was less time for how to raise awareness about a european year of youth. so really, do you share these concerns about awareness of the european year of youth? and how can we enhance this awareness of young people and include young people in this decision policy process?
madam president, commissioner, youth is the most decisive period of a life, a time of personal flowering that you only live once and as such, you must take advantage of it. that is why this european year of youth is so important in raising awareness of this. however, commissioner, how many young people have heard of the initiative? unfortunately, not enough. we have failed in our goal of reaching the general population. the motives? this year's organization started late and has had little funding and little involvement. but we still need to ensure that this year's legacy goes beyond that, to help young people overcome the effects of the pandemic, to empower them to be active and engaged citizens, to inform them of all the opportunities that the european union offers. training is a central axis in the development of our young people and without quality, inclusive and barrier-free education, they will have a much harder time achieving their goals. i end with a key moment for our young people, the difficult transition to the world of work. it is a democratic imperative that we guarantee fair remuneration for all traineeships. it is a pity that we did not have the support of the right to defend this basic right. because of your opposition, we have not been able to include it in the resolution we are going to vote on, but young people can continue to count on us socialists to continue fighting for their rights.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: europe has 74 million young people aged 14 to 29. that's a relatively large number. it is worthwhile to do something about them, but not enough when we talk about ageing societies in europe. not enough. but research shows that young people want to be more proactive in society, they want to be more involved. they point to the unemployment that still exists in europe and is strongly present in many parts of the european union. and it's only right that we help them as much as we can. and this initiative, which came from the president of the european commission in september 2021, to have a european year of youth next year, is more than welcome, but it is a recognition. i think that the youth organisations and other participants have had too little time to prepare well and of course there are difficulties in implementation. and also for next year, when it was proposed just now that this year would be the year of skills, which is a perfect idea, very good, but it carries the same weak point as the previous initiative. we are not well coordinated in european policies in terms of giving such initiatives. so i have two big wishes. the first is that this initiative is being extended for six months to allow them to carry out the projects that young people have set themselves. and the second initiative, i am counting on the european commission to coordinate better in the future, to talk to us, the decision-makers in education policy. the european commission is first and foremost an implementing agency and it would be more than necessary for us to come together, look at things, analyse things and then take very important initiatives, such as this one this year.
madam president, 2022 is the year of european youth, the year of a generation that went through so many crises recently. i expected the commission to be more ambitious, to reach those who are less interested in politics. we, as renew, organised renew4youth – an event that brought together 145 european students, young european students who had fruitful exchanges. they came from the eu but also beyond. this event changed their vision of europe. next year will be the european year of skills, and i am proud to be the rapporteur on quality traineeships. traineeships should be paid. they should occur in better working conditions and trainees should have a real learning experience. so i say to you colleagues, this is not something we do for ourselves. this is something we do for young europeans, for the next generation eu. so let’s cooperate on that report, because they deserve it.
all members, without exception, have the right to speak before this podium. so i can only apologise for this house, that it has only just happened. it's a given.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i am very excited to speak for our colleague, because we are talking about people with disabilities. we have studies, we have research done, what impact is in society on these people, the un convention. but in practice, in every country, the first problem of these people is accessibility, and we have seen that even in the european parliament, colleagues do not have access to the hall. is that even possible? our colleague spoke for the first time here in front of parliament. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think we must put an end to this dictatorship of the council. i hear here that for 14 years we have been trying to have a legislation for people with disabilities, for 14 years! for 11 years, look, in 8 years, the entrance to two states was blocked. i came to strasbourg today, commissioner. do you know how to go down the stairs for people who are not in schengen? there is no way for a disabled person to get to passport control, because they have to go down some stairs. it is unacceptable what is happening to the council and i think that we, the parliament, must come together and make sure that our work here is put into practice. without concrete measures, which we are voting on here and the council is blocking, we will not solve the problem of people with disabilities either.
madam president, one-and-a-half years ago, i suddenly became impaired. i have a rare disease, and today i only see 25%, even with glasses, which is sometimes disturbing. but i know that many others have greater struggles. many others are in a worse situation than me. they face discrimination in their everyday lives: half of the people with disabilities are unemployed; nearly 30% are at risk of poverty. they are excluded – we are excluded – from society. we have barriers, for example, in transportation or in education. 800 000 people with a disability could not vote in 2019 in the european elections because of barriers of accessibility. that cannot be. they have their right to vote. they have their voice to vote. as one of the chairs of the european parliament’s cross—party disability intergroup, i can assure you that we fight for equal chances and opportunities for everybody, which also means for people with disabilities. we fight so that everybody can contribute to society, because we can and we want to.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in these difficult days president metsola has said that 'european democracy is under attack' and, i would add, that it has not been since friday evening. for years foreign forces have been trying to interfere in our decision-making processes in order to influence or change the fate of our union, and it is no coincidence that we have set up a special committee to analyse these attempts at interference. we have seen this with the widespread demagogy surrounding brexit, or with attempts by russia or china to undermine our core values. in this scenario of risks, we must not underestimate the link between foreign interference and our energy, food or financial autonomy: it is clear that there are certain regimes which for economic or energy reasons, for example, try to limit our principles and our democracy. we must respond to these attempts with strategies that make our union increasingly self-sufficient in order to face any external threat that tries to weaken us. unfortunately, today we are witnessing a serious case of corruption within our institution and i hope that those responsible for this conduct, if they are found, will not go unpunished but, above all, that it will be made clear immediately to avoid destroying the credibility of our institution. a credibility built with commitment, sacrifice and a lot of struggle. a credibility that might frighten some people. and so, now more than ever, we must react to defend the credibility of our institutions and the european union as a whole, not only in the eyes of the outside world but above all in the eyes of our citizens, who are asking us for a strong, close and credible europe.
mr president, dear colleagues, our identity is under attack and some wrongdoings will have serious consequences for institutions’ reputations. probably the most expected outcome of the latest corruption allegations is that the ones who profoundly threaten democracy within the eu, and from outside, will use this case as an alibi. so far, we have been more focused on the pride of holding the torch of democracy globally. unfortunately, we did not complete secure management of democracy internally. as some member states and officials within the eu showed, democracy can be effectively suppressed even after it was once established. besides that, our immediate neighbourhood is in many cases a playground for autocratic regimes. attacks on our democratic structures often have a foreign imprint. but for it to succeed, they are provided by internal allies. to defend our democratic standards we have to address both urgently. we need to build a resilient system that goes beyond simple codes of conduct, increase transparency regarding our meetings and introduce improved clearance of everyone working at and representing our institutions. immediate course of action should be to set clear rules on lobbying, as well as strong protection of the whistleblowers. to strengthen the confidence in democracy we have to lead by example.
chairman, commissioner, the twitter summit covered up the biden family's corruption just before the u.s. presidential election. capital research revealed the flow of money from the open society foundations to ngos to undermine eu elections. emails show that the world economic forum instructed the dutch government to implement the wef agenda without the knowledge of the parliament or the electorate. qatar bribed members of the european parliament. ursula von der leyen is still hiding communications with pfizer about the billion-dollar deals for the covid fake vaccines. it must remain a secret that the united states was behind the attack on the gas pipelines from russia to germany. the people are paying the price for this war and corruption, and so the people must continue to believe the lies. the european commission and the european parliament are covering up their lies, electoral fraud, bribery and corruption and are pushing for censorship on social media. all these people need to be arrested and convicted.
mr president, dear commissioner, i had a speech prepared but i was shocked with the speeches here. i think it was churchill who said that if you don’t want to solve a problem, you create a commission – and we have a huge problem here and a new commission will not resolve this problem, which is the problem of democracy and the truth. the foreign affairs committee has all these sub—committees that are dealing with the truth – the droi committee, and we are now shocked at what is going on there. our urgency resolutions – in two days, via civil societies, they are trying to change the order of the truth and the facts and none of us here is able to fight this i would say closed circle of friends who are still unable to face the truth. 15 years ago in bosnia and herzegovina, they introduced a law to stop this ngo being financed by foreign interference, and the european union with its own democracy is not able to face the truth and see that ngos – doubtful ngos – that are using the names and reputation of some honourable persons are being used as laundromats and that we are being here influenced by these people. it doesn’t matter which autocracy, it is still not a democracy. so we should face the truth and finally start dealing with it, because without that we will lose our reputation and our credibility forever.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against external interference and disinformation must be the priority of this parliament today more than ever, as it is obviously under attack from outside actors who seek to destabilise our democratic institutions. we must react, our democracy is not for sale. the european commission's announcement of a plan to defend european democracies is a sign of awareness, but it must be implemented with concrete and courageous action. it is no longer time for optional recommendations. but the european union is not starting from scratch. i am thinking in particular of the work of mr majorino and mr glucksmann, among others, who have identified the weaknesses on which we must work. i am thinking of the need for an independent european body for public ethics, the transparency of relations with stakeholders, all the risks associated with actions of all kinds carried out by the realities of foreign countries, especially authoritarian countries, and many issues have also been mentioned in previous speeches. the credibility of europe is at stake, and the credibility of the european parliament, which is no small thing, as a defender of human rights. these years, which have brought about important results, must not be marred by a disgusting story.
mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, foreign interference and attacks on our democracy’s fundamentals should be treated as hybrid attacks and crimes, which must be punished accordingly. we must understand that such attempts are primarily directed against our citizens and their democratic and free choice. therefore our response should include, among other measures, sanctions against third—country institutions, persons or entities that carry out such malign attacks. i therefore call for eu sanctions mechanisms to be complemented by measures that give due weight to interference in the internal affairs of member states and the union and ensure democratic stability. we must act effectively to deter future attacks against our societies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the discovery by the belgian judiciary of a system of corruption organized by qatar discredits the european parliament. this 'qatargate' should prompt us to make three decisions. first, to demand that mr raphael glucksmann resign as chairman of the committee of inquiry into foreign interference. blinded by his prejudices, he accused me, by name and without proof, in this gallery, of being in the service of russia, while real corruption flourished under his nose among his socialist friends. secondly, to investigate the strange recklessness of olaf and the european public prosecutor's office, which preferred to look elsewhere rather than look into the massive corruption by qatar, which the public rumour had long denounced. finally, we must immediately stop trying to strengthen the european parliament and the commission, which are clearly the prey of the most odious lobbies. let us put our trust in the council, the only legitimate representative of the member states within the union. let us use the 'qatargate' to set the record straight and replace the 'union of pressure groups and money powers' with a europe of nations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by external interference against democracy in the european union we are referring to the fact that for decades the global financial markets have been subverting the will of democratic governments. tell the greek people that 12 years ago they were subjected to a bailout plan just to save some european banks at the cost of destroying their social protection system and now it is the commission that has had to apologize to the greek people. however, i understand that this is not the debate today, but the one about the interference of autocratic countries against the european union as a paradigm of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. it is inevitable in this case to cite qatargate and other examples, such as putin's russia and its dangerous friendships with far-right parties in the european union, which it has funded in a not disinterested way. by the way, enough of the fake news about the relations between putin and catalan independence. please, enough already. when we talk about foreign democracy, the reflection is obvious: how can we protect ourselves against those who violate the rule of law if we look the other way when these violations are committed in the union by the member states themselves? we will not tire of repeating that the violation of civil and political rights in spain as a result of the catalan conflict leaves us unarmed against all the putins and autocrats of the world, whether they come from the gulf or elsewhere.
mr president, what can we say today about foreign interference endangering democracy? we are now focusing - finally, i would say - on disinformation by foreign bodies, on the excessive influence of china on our economies and infrastructure, and on the excessive influence of russia on the economic and political level, with its active support for parties or its influence in elections. we need to protect ourselves and detect the flaws in our system that allow these takeovers, which i would call underground. our openness to the world, our freedom of speech, of the press and many others, these values that we hold so dear, contain risks that sometimes prevent us from protecting ourselves. it is vital that we find ways to counter these attacks and to decisively prevent disinformation from circulating, while protecting our freedoms. yes, it is a war of misinformation that is being waged. the goal is to weaken our democracy. maintaining our freedoms while preventing foreign interference is the challenge. today, we must also talk about corruption, which is doing damage that also shakes confidence in democracy. when a foreign power uses it, it's foreign interference. corruption is illegal, our laws punish it. we have confidence in justice at home, where the rule of law is established.
madam president, i believe in our democracy and i believe in our values. to protect them, to even allow them to exist, journalists play a vital role. they are essential to democracy. defending journalists also means safeguarding freedom of expression and the independence of the media. it is reliable information that enables citizens to make informed decisions. it is only by creating the necessary space of freedom and the necessary security conditions that journalists will be able to carry out their job: to inform the public, with all the seriousness that this task entails. it is our responsibility to create the legal conditions necessary to ensure that their working environment is safe. that is why i welcome our texts, which seek to prevent abusive prosecutions or to promote close police protection where necessary. today, however, forms of harassment of journalists have multiplied and are taking unexpected forms. on the net, with the help of social networks, it is often the reputation that is being destroyed, especially when it comes to investigative journalists or fact-checkers. unfortunately, as the figures show, women journalists are even more targeted than their male colleagues. we must be aware of these new facts and adapt all our measures, including at member state level.
