madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam rapporteur, madam commissioner, we are at the end of a journey which has led us to listen to the whole of the wider community fighting cancer. i would like to thank them first of all, the many scientific associations and societies, the voluntary world, the patients, the organizations that represent them, and then the doctors and researchers, without whom we have very little hope of defeating this evil. we are presenting an ambitious text in the house today, which proposes many, many ideas which will be decisive for the years to come. prevention first, but also early diagnosis, screening programmes, innovative treatment and research, social reintegration of survivors and the right to be forgotten. in a broader perspective, i believe that this plan must be integrated into the framework of a genuine european health union, which we must build on the principles of equitable access, on the fundamental principle that health and care are for all, without social or territorial distinctions. there are still too many differences, also in terms of the fight against cancer, between european countries and even within countries. it is unacceptable that in europe today there are such different life expectancies depending on where you are born. the value of universal, quality public health is now evident again when discussing cancer, but also research, which is directed towards the needs of patients and not to vested interests. and then we remembered the connection between environment and cancer, knowing that sustainable development also protects us from this disease. our group has defended these principles in these months of work in the beca committee, drawing strength from what doctors and science have told us, and will continue to do so in the future. to all who have accompanied us on this journey, we say: "keep close to us again. this vote is not the end of a journey in the fight against cancer, but rather the beginning of a long road ahead, which we want to take with you".
madam president, madam commissioner, dear veronika, i would like to thank you for your kind words. europe must first be effective in tackling the problems that matter to its citizens, and i am therefore very pleased that the european parliament can contribute to the joint european cancer initiative with its report. and it is this diagnosis that kills more than a million europeans every year, and it is possible to reduce this number significantly both by prevention and by screening and by early diagnosis and treatment. it takes money and, of course, political will to act together. but i want to focus on one aspect today, and that is the disparity in cancer diagnosis and treatment across european countries. let's be frank, there are huge differences between countries in europe in terms of the ability to diagnose cancer at an early stage, access to modern drugs and treatment, and quality follow-up care. and i think that this aspect of inequality really needs to be at the heart of the european cancer plan. and no european initiative will succeed if only some member states' citizens benefit from it. by doing this and by organising a lot of things together, we can achieve better cancer care for all patients in all member states. i would therefore like to highlight the initiatives in the plan that most directly address this aspect of inequality. first, there must be equal access to screening in all member states, as today differences, such as in breast cancer screening, are up to ten times greater between countries. equivalent quality standards for screening should also be introduced. secondly, the european commission should actively work with member states to achieve equal access to innovative medicines. efficient competition between pharmaceutical manufacturers should be ensured to reduce costs and increase availability of medicines, and joint european procurement is needed. this is why our report emphasises that patients have the right to optimal treatment, regardless of their ability to pay, country of origin, age and gender. finally, comprehensive cancer centres in the member states need to establish a european-wide network that would serve both the circulation of medical data and give patients access to better diagnostics and expertise. these centres should also, of course, serve as a basis for joint research. and finally, the proposed registry of cancer disparities will only be meaningful if we see it as a guide to our collective work and our collective achievements.
for the ecr group - the chairman of the board. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european year of youth in the member states and in third countries, and will continue to support the implementation of the european year of youth in the member states and third countries. but we have to understand that there is a quality to participation. and quality doesn't just come out of nowhere. so we have to think about how to link the promotion of youth participation with targeted support, with targeted training programmes. it is important that the european union promotes youth leadership and civic education programmes. the second aspect to note is that the term 'youth' is very inclusive, and it is very good that we are talking about the achievement of passive young people. but i want to talk about another aspect, which is that there's a big difference between those who are young people, who are still in their teens, and those who are 25 and older. and as various studies show, younger people are more concerned about education and climate issues, while older people are more concerned about economic growth and employment issues. one of the issues raised in this session - unpaid traineeships - has been updated for good reason. we also talk too little about the fact that in many member states young professionals are increasingly forced to spend a large part of their income on renting housing, while the purchase of a first home is becoming more and more difficult to achieve. i therefore hope that the european youth year will help us to update this wide range of youth problems and to create new solutions.
madam president, dear colleagues, i will speak latvian today, but being myself an ethnic russian, i would like to try to address russians in russia and in europe as well. kad kremlis īsteno zemisku un noziedzīgu karu pret ukrainu, daudzi saka: “ir kauns būt krievam.” tā tas nav. krievijā tiek aizturēti tūkstošiem cilvēku, kas bezbailīgi piedalās protesta akcijās pilsētu ielās, protestējot pret karu. eiropas pilsētās piedalās manifestācijās un demonstrācijās eiropas savienības krieviski runājoši pilsoņi un iedzīvotāji. būt krievam nav kauns. bet vienu brīdi var pārņemt bezgalīga kauna sajūta par to, ka tu esi vai nu atbalstījis, vai nu esi mēģinājis atrast attaisnojumus tiem, kas dod noziedzīgas pavēles bombardēt ar “grad” harkivas pilsētas mikrorajonus. ir prieks redzēt, ka eiropa rīkojas, bet mums ir jāiet tālāk un jādara vairāk. mums ir jānodrošina ukrainai iespēja iestāties eiropas savienībā tik ātri, cik vien ir iespējams. mums vienlaicīgi ir jāpasaka krievu cilvēkiem, gan tiem, kas dzīvo eiropā, kas ir eiropas pilsoņi un rezidenti, ka jūs esat mūsējie. mēs esam pret kremli. mēs neesam pret krievu cilvēkiem. un galvenie vārdi, kas ir jāpasaka šodien visās valodās ir ... (runātājs uzstāšanos noslēdz krievu valodā).
for the ecr group good morning, colleagues. since 24 february, when russia launched its brutal war in ukraine, many of the theoretical and academic possibilities described in our report on foreign interference in european democratic processes have become a grim reality in a short space of time. we are witnessing putin's military forces literally destroying a free and independent country, punishing it for its attempts to choose the course and values of western democracy. today we have to ask ourselves openly whether we have been blind for too long to the various attempts of the kremlin to interfere in the elections of the member states of the european union, in the financing of political parties, in the economy, energy, banking, culture and education, and also in the information space, including allowing the kremlin to use freedom of speech as a cover for its disinformation and propaganda operations. the current situation strongly demonstrates that democracies must be able to protect themselves, and it is now our urgent task to provide immediate and adequate support to independent media, journalists and fact-checkers from ukraine, belarus and russia, including newsrooms forced to cease their activities at home and work or wish to resume in the european union. secondly, the european union must confront the whole kremlin propaganda machine. mr. borela, russia today and sputnik are just a small part of the kremlin's disinformation army. kremlin-owned channels such as rossiya rtr, rossiya 24, tv center international, ntv, ren tv, belarus 24 and others are still widely available in many countries of the european union. right here in strasbourg, the hotel has three open-air war propaganda tv channels. in one of them, russian occupiers or miratvorci, as the kremlin thugs call them, with a tank top draw a salute to the women of donbass and against the backdrop of this cynical artwork, spread lies on the news screen that ukraine categorically refuses to evacuate its citizens and the army uses them as shields for its tanks. i have to ask, colleagues, whether that is what we want to call and defend as freedom of expression in our own european union. thanks to my colleague sandra kalniette for a titanic job.
madam president, vice-president jourová, the special committee of this european parliament on interference, disinformation and manipulation has worked hard for a year and a half and has stopped, for powerful reasons, on the attacks on the territorial integrity of the member states by online platforms supporting destabilisation by secessionist movements to weaken supranational integration and on the threat of hate to vulnerable groups migrants, lgtbi in pursuit of supremacism incompatible with the values of the european union. poisoning, targeted hacking, hybrid threats are part of a strategy of authoritarian regimes against the founding values of the open societies that make up the european union. and the lessons are clear. a coordinated european strategy against online platforms and interference in electoral and democratic processes is needed, and cybersecurity of critical infrastructures needs to be strengthened. but the solutions are also clear: binding legislation against the lack of transparency of algorithms, literacy and digital education as self-defense of citizens and unrelenting sanctions against those responsible for disinformation. the brutal mix of disinformation and outright repression that is sweeping putin's russia in its aggression against ukraine makes it clear that the job is not done. lessons must be learned from this so that there can be a free public opinion as an essential pillar of the european idea of democracy.
i have to say, madam president, the present report could hardly be more up-to-date. while it exposes and clearly identifies disinformation in the eu, including by foreign regimes, it also shows how we can effectively counter - in my view - indiscriminate quick-fires such as bans and blocks. we have an urgent need to catch up in digital and media education, and the report rightly highlights the importance of pluralistic, diverse and independent media. if we are to protect our democracy, we must do more to promote media literacy and strengthen independent journalism in the press, on the radio, on television and online. it is the only way to defend a liberal media order. such a situation will easily be countered by government intervention. a strong and liberal media landscape is quite capable of uncovering and classifying nonsense and nonsense. sacrificing media freedom to protect our democracy would be a grave mistake, because one cannot exist without the other. i congratulate you on the report, but please let us work together to put the findings into practice.
madam president, madam commissioner, what we are seeing right now in ukraine makes some things crystal clear. we in europe have always protected freedom of speech, freedom of information as our fundamental values, and at the same time we have allowed aggressive, authoritarian dictatorships to use information as a weapon against us. it is now urgent to change this approach. europe has to engage much more in the distribution of its positive message. we should not hesitate to emphasise our values, our position and our approach to reach the public in authoritarian countries like russia. i’m talking here about supporting the quality journalism and analysis about access to objective expertise and independent channels of information. i mean, these first two weeks of the ongoing russian aggression have been catastrophic for the informational sphere in russia. prominent media outlets like echo moskvy or dozhd have been forcibly closed, journalists expelled and arrested. without our help, the last remnants of a free public debate will be gone in a matter of days. this is not just about helping the russian people, this is about also ourselves getting informed about what’s happening in those countries. thank you very much for the report.
madam president, the review of the eu’s economic governance framework must come up with an ambitious proposal that recognises the need for far—reaching investments. the european semester remains far from being obsolete and will remain a crucial instrument for member states to coordinate economic, fiscal, social and employment policies. however, it should also be more than that. we must generally move away from an obstinate focus on quantitative growth and budgetary orthodoxy. the recovery and resilience funds and the national recovery and resilience plans already show that well-designed instruments can bring about lasting change. we should learn the lessons and transform the european semester into an instrument to achieve inclusive and sustainable growth, meet environmental and social objectives and improve the well-being of our citizens. this means integrating the pertinent environmental and social indicators related to the paris agreement, the sdgs and the european pillar of social rights. the european semester can be more than a somehow dreary bureaucratic process. if we democratise it, ascribing a clear role to social partners, involving other relevant stakeholders and claiming a stronger role for the european parliament throughout the process, then we can find solutions to the real problems on the ground and we will be able to adapt to the new sad reality with the war on our eastern border.
dear madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my dear mr. dombrovsky, i have to ask you to leave. the european economy has recovered from the shock of the covid pandemic a few weeks ago, much faster than expected, thanks to targeted support from the european union and its member states to the sectors most affected by the pandemic. and this, in turn, has already returned all member states to their pre-pandemic development levels. we have recently been talking about the reopening of the stability and growth pact, the need to return to the limits on state aid and so on. unfortunately, at a time when these shocks seemed to have been overcome, the russian invasion of ukraine and the imposition of sanctions are presenting the union and its member states with a whole new challenge, and we do not yet see any light at the end of the tunnel. but one thing is clear today: the warfare in the region will inevitably affect our economies and cause asymmetric shocks precisely to those member states closest to this region of violence and aggression. i therefore call on the european commission to develop an action plan in good time to help in a practical way to mitigate the economic consequences and to help in a practical way those member states which are in difficulty. the commission should also make recommendations on how europe can work together to reduce the impact of energy price volatility on our economic development in the long term.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, a cold and expensive winter is coming for us europeans. this winter will become another stress test, not only for our financial capacities, but also for the stability of the union in general. the eu budget 2023 deals with a still ongoing health crisis and new geopolitical challenges, not to forget our crucial priorities like the european green deal and the just transition. this is a budget we all need. but the budget 2023 itself will probably not be sufficient enough to deal with all the consequences of the crisis we face now. that’s why we need to revise as soon as possible ngeu, which is planned to end exactly in 2023. we need a larger, more flexible and better accountable recovery fund 2.0 to help europeans to overcome hard times.
for the ecr group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: a strong and harmonised legal framework for data management is an important step towards alleviating existing data security concerns and opening up wider possibilities for data use in the european union. we would also be making an additional contribution to national economies. the analogy of data as the oil of the 21st century is certainly still relevant. the european union must therefore ensure that innovation is based on transparent and high-quality data. it also means that the european union must not build a fortress around itself, indirectly creating new barriers to digitisation and data flows with the rest of the world. the commission will continue to support the development of the digital economy in the region, in particular through the development of the digital economy in the region. the european union and the member states must also devote more financial and other resources to the development and application of new technologies. the european union is seriously lacking in both private and public investment in artificial intelligence and other high-tech fields. if we want to be at the forefront of the digital age, we need to take decisive action, including on funding, in addition to legislation.
for the ecr group - the president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. my fellow citizens! last thursday, when the un secretary general was in ukraine, russia fired missiles at kiev. this symbolic desire of putin to degrade the un unfortunately also claimed the life of the journalist of radio svoboda, viras hričič, the twenty-third journalist killed in this war. some of these journalists have been deliberately killed by the russian military for carrying out their professional duties. there is no room for truth and facts in the bird's worldview. conquerors and conquerors are peacemakers, genocide is liberation, loss is victory. independent journalism is disrupting that worldview. so in russia, it's no longer possible to lie or hide. many journalists have thus left their homeland, forced to flee to the european union, hoping to continue working in a safe environment. but putin has never limited his crackdown on free speech to russia. in the digital environment, kremlin propagandists, bots and trolls are attacking independent media outlets reporting on war crimes in ukraine, blocking their accounts and content. it's the geopolitical context in which we have to look at the safety and protection of journalists today. at the same time, we must not forget the social security of journalists, which has been exacerbated by the fall in media revenues. we finally need to adopt a legal framework against strategic lawsuits, and the new digital environment regulation must also provide for the responsibility of platforms to protect journalists. the european union should also give particular support to independent media and journalists in the regions most exposed to the kremlin's influence. and finally, we must stop treating kremlin propaganda as journalism and provide them with european cable and satellite resources, but we must also support independent russian media and journalists. our support is also needed for ukrainian journalists who, together with the defenders of their country, are fighting for their freedom.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as if putin's current war with tanks, bombings and assassinations in ukraine were not bad enough, war in cyberspace has been a devastating reality for a long time. the war is not just about critical infrastructure in ukraine. in fact, there is an attack on a company in europe every 11 seconds, ladies and gentlemen, every 11 seconds! the war in cyberspace reveals that we in europe are weak. that's why we need to beef up our cyber defenses on multiple levels. first of all, we need to update the eu's cybersecurity rules to strengthen the defenses of businesses and public authorities. this is happening right now in the so-called nice ii act, which several colleagues have mentioned - i myself have been involved in negotiating it - and now the trilogue negotiations are in full swing between the council, the commission and the european parliament, and we have certain expectations as to the outcome, commissioner. it is absolutely essential that member states and companies accept that we have to impose stricter requirements. second, we need to deter countries like russia from attacking us. that is why we need to be able to adopt common sanctions against non-eu countries which attack member states in cyberspace. finally, we need to have a completely different, close collaboration to detect cyberattacks much earlier. i am quite certain that we will see initiatives from the commission on closer cooperation in the near future.
mr president, the intensification of the rivalries between the united states, nato and the european union and russia is fuelling the escalation of the imperialist conflict in ukraine and the so-called cyber war, accompanied by a war of propaganda and censorship on both sides. commissioner schinas' statement at the opening of the new headquarters of the european union agency for cybersecurity in athens that the war is not only being waged on the streets of mariupol, but has already begun on the internet - he repeated this here - shows that greece, with the contribution of all greek governments, is involved up to its neck in the war. in addition to the vast network of us bases and depots of the imperialist war in ukraine, the sending of arms and military forces, as well as sanctions, since it is a key cyber centre of the european union, can potentially be a target of cyber retaliation, as russia, for example, has declared at an unprecedented time. against the dangerous imperialist plans, the independent struggle of the people must be strengthened, so that greece can be freed from the imperialist war.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we can feel it, it's time to wake up. cyber warfare is increasingly dominating our daily lives. cyberattacks are not just against countries at war. so far, 40 russian cyberattacks have been recorded: against the electricity grid, drinking water supply, water supply systems, military coordination facilities, and against critical infrastructure in many other countries. this is why we need a common eu cyber defence. i am in favour of a joint eu cyber defence unit. and to be able to respond consistently and swiftly to hybrid attacks and illegal content, the european union needs to increase its competence in this area, strengthen the capacity of europol's european cybercrime centre and improve cooperation between national security and intelligence services. at the same time, we need to invest more in the education and digital skills of our citizens. it's about learning from an early age to judge independently whether information is trustworthy or not. we have a lot to do together.
mr president, commissioner, the war in ukraine is yet another example of how cyberattacks have become elements of the battlefield. and, unfortunately, they will be part of the landscape of international tensions for years to come. the strategic compass therefore provides a good insight into how cybersecurity and cyberattacks are one of the main threats facing europe. a threat to their prosperity, but also a threat to their national security and even to their democracy. we must therefore learn to fight them with strength and determination as europeans. learn what? learning, first of all, to respond, having clear tools to be able to respond in the face of cyberattacks. second, to resist, which means protecting critical infrastructure and our electoral systems. and thirdly, clearly attribute who is behind it so that sanctions can be applied. resist, respond, and attribute. all this to become also a geopolitical actor in the digital sphere.
mr president, when vladimir putin plans a so-called ‘special military operation’, he probably hoped for a quick and victorious war. however, ukrainian resistance turned out to be fierce and western support for them is helping ukrainians to fight back so heroically. it is obvious now that russia is going to use all possible non-conventional means to hurt ukraine and its allies, and the increased intensity of cyber is clearly a case in point. they are affecting our critical infrastructure, water and electricity supply, transport, medicine and our supply chains. we shouldn’t be naive, as violent, cynical and inhumane as putin’s regime is in a physical war, it is also going to be in the cyberspace. what we need in europe is to proceed swiftly with a new cyber resilience act. let me emphasise two elements here. first, strengthening the cooperation between computer security incident response teams in the member states, in identifying the threats timely, not being ‘behind’ the hackers. second, the development and coordination of offensive – not just defensive – capacities among member states. it is very often crucial not just to block and prevent an attack. you have to be capable to seek out and to disrupt the malignant activities. this is what is needed to neutralise putin’s army of cyber criminals.
mr president, spain is spying on elected politicians, including meps, our lawyers, our families, our assistants. the catalangate is a dystopian fantasy, a pathetic rendering of the life of others taking place under the complacent watch of the commission and the council, that cynically just mumble half-baked excuses on internal affairs. you may hope to get away with this, commissioner, but in every political life there is a moment in which you can either stop the spread of a disease or be part of it. if the union becomes nothing more than a cartel of old states with freedom to persecute national minorities, the failure will have many parents. we don’t ask you to solve our problems or to sympathise with our hopes. we just demand that you do your duty and uphold our rights in front of an authoritarian state.
mr president, you can see the debate on individual countries taking place here, the way in which representatives of either the governments or the opposition in the countries concerned are speaking. i'll keep my perspective on the general, if you will. in short, we're debating pegasus technology that can be used to spy on political rivals, journalists, and basically all citizens. and this is a subject that should be of particular concern to us, because we citizens, and above all the representatives of the citizens of the european union, should be protecting the rights of eu citizens. and the right to privacy, i personally consider as a citizen, a lawyer, a teacher, one of the most important rights. and if we allow for the possibility -- and i say this in a very general way -- that some of the countries of the european union, or some of the governments of the countries of the european union, will violate this sacred right to privacy and use modern technology to do so, then that's a huge problem. and i would urge the commission, the committee responsible, to investigate the whole situation, to give us, the members, clear conclusions, and on the basis of these conclusions, to have a serious debate on how to tighten legislation on the use of modern technologies that violate the right to privacy. in my opinion, banning these technologies is not the right solution. we are fighting terrorism, we are fighting the challenges of the 21st century, and these technologies can contribute to the fight against terrorism and serious international organized crime. but on the other hand, it is quite clear, and these examples show that the debate on how to tighten the eu legal framework, how to better punish such abuses, is simply appropriate and our topic. we are the defenders of the rule of law, which is a value of the european union.
mr president, spying on journalists, opposition politicians, judges and activists is, of course, totally unacceptable. the european parliament should investigate and strongly condemn such activities, by whatever member state they have been undertaken. along with that, we should be aware of the new technological realities of today – that crime, terrorism and even war have moved to technological space, cyberspace. that’s why it’s important not to throw the baby out with the bathwater and to keep the balance between the security we owe to our citizens and consideration of our basic values. the main task is to be technologically ahead of criminals and authoritarian butchers like vladimir putin and, at the same time, to be consistent with our own values. first of all, the european standard of democratic oversight of how police and special agencies are using these technologies is a case in point. second, the export and availability of such technologies should be linked with basic indicators of the rule of law and democracy in a particular member state. this is the way our committee should proceed.
deputising for the author. – mr president, commissioner, the european parliament’s culture and education committee is delighted to witness a real progress being made in order to strive for establishing a european education area by 2025. the three proposals for the council recommendations, namely to develop a european approach to micro—credentials, individual learning accounts, as well as learning for environmental sustainability, are a welcome start. at the european parliament we have five priorities for these three aforementioned proposals. first, that these initiatives make learning paths more inclusive, accessible and flexible. second, that they broaden learning opportunities for all. third, that they foster mutual recognition of qualifications across all member states. fourth that they create ties between lifelong learning on the one hand and the digital and green transitions on the other hand. and fifth, that they strengthen the role played by higher education, vocational education and training institutions throughout people’s life. we believe the eu must support member states to establish high—quality, competitive and tailored education frameworks that cater for everyone, everywhere and according to their specific needs. micro—credentials and individual learning accounts are pieces in the puzzle that will aid these objectives. what is more, we need to ensure that educational attainments are recognised throughout the union, as removing such barriers would help promote educational and professional mobility and, by extension, the economic growth and social development of the eu. even though the european parliament is not the decision—maker in the adoption of these three council resolutions, we see it as our responsibility to support the commission and the council and the member states by providing political guidance. it is essential that each building block contributes towards achieving a true and comprehensive european education area. with this in mind, i have seven questions on behalf of the culture committee. first, how will the commission and the council ensure that the relevant council recommendations and other initiatives come together to create a clearly visible and coherent european education area, including flexible, high—quality learning paths for eu citizens? and second, do the council and the commission intend to promote the recognition of non—formal and informal learning experiences such as volunteering and youth work through micro—credentials? will this pave the way for a framework for the recognition and automatic transfer of skills and competences acquired through informal and non-formal learning? third, will the member states include strategies in the plans they submit to make micro—credentials relevant and accessible to those who are usually left behind? we believe that lifelong learning is key to personal development and well-being, as well as upward social mobility. so we also would like to ask how will the right options be determined for everyone without eliminating alternative choices which may not seem suitable initially? then, fifth question, will the successful pilot model used to launch the european universities initiative be replicated in order to encourage member states to make significant legislative and administrative efforts to adopt micro—credentials as a european tool to certify learning outcomes? what will the member states do with the council and the commission’s support to develop a coherent approach and to achieve the goals of the european green deal? will there be adequate funding and support to embed sustainability in all processes and deliver a systemic change in education and training? and finally, what are the commission, the council and the member states doing to develop within the european education area the knowledge, attitudes and skills needed to carry out ambitious plans to better protect europe’s rich cultural heritage from the impact of climate change and make greener choices for new cultural buildings?
drafting of the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - mr president! i'm not going to let you down. my fellow citizens! we're really making a very crucial decision -- a crucial decision for our future, which is related to one crucial issue, which is, improving the quality of life and improving the quality of life in the post-pandemic, in the post-covid period, improving the quality of life when there's a war going on in ukraine, improving the quality of life when there are a lot of social issues in europe, and then it's crucial that we really move forward. progress progress in this case is really this technology of wasteless transport, but understanding that not only by investing in wasteless transport, but also in the infrastructure that is needed to make such transport work. it is also important to invest in nature, to invest in forests, which currently provide a large absorption of co2. and it's important for us to recognize right now that this is a complex issue that we face today. on the one hand, we have to invest in agriculture, we have to invest in forestry structures. on the other hand, we understand that any infrastructure requires support now. i'm calling for a real thinking about complexity now, a thinking about how we can deal with these issues in a sustainable way.
mr president, commissioner, and the council representative! i would like to start with an aspect which i think has been under-exposed in the debate: the regulation on climate change. it is good and important that we raise the targets in this area. the climate regulation applies to all member states individually, and this regulation is in fact the only instrument we have to ensure that the sectors of agriculture, waste, transport, buildings then also achieve their objectives. i personally find it regrettable, however, that we on the right side of the house were unfortunately unable to secure a majority to make the individual sectoral objectives binding. that would have been real progress. i believe that we have succeeded in setting binding targets in the field of transport and agriculture, where they are currently very difficult to achieve. i'm sticking with traffic with respect to the fleet limits for cars and vans. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not distorted. but if we assume that they will last an average of 15 years and we will be climate neutral by 2050, then 2035 will be the most urgent time to decide to exit. and the synthetic fuels that are mentioned here over and over again as a solution, well, they are not. because the colleagues who like synthetic fuels should tell the citizens that the price will be eur 2.40 or more per litre. so the prices we're trying to reduce are going to be for synthetic fuels. it's just not a solution. and another thing: synthetic fuels only make sense if they're based on green hydrogen. but we have just enough hydrogen for five percent of the passenger car fleet by 2030. so a solution is being proposed which is not a solution, and that is why synthetic fuels are not a solution at this point.
mr president! i'm not going to tell you. the green deal is the path to european energy independence and the independence we so badly need now in the face of russian aggression. climate and security policies should therefore complement each other, not conflict. the target of reducing this waste by 55% by 2030 is very ambitious, and that is why we cannot leave any local green resources unused. i'm talking about biomass first. the zizimm regulation emphasises sustainable forestry, the use of wood to replace less climate-friendly materials like concrete, steel and so on. and that should be reflected in the co2 targets that we're talking about here today. we also need to think about the competitiveness of the european economy and the economies of the member states in terms of industry and the potential of forestry. and of course we have to think about additional money for the social climate fund to help the less protected europeans cover the costs of the green transition.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, all 12 member states of the three seas initiative have had one chapter in their history in common, and this is the iron curtain, which denied the development and natural growth of this region for a half a century. it caused a distinct polarity between european regions in economic development but, most notably, it showed how ineffective and uncompetitive the regional infrastructure and energy market integration is. the infrastructure is far outdated, and therefore requires urgent investment. we gladly acknowledge the significance of union’s contribution, but unfortunately, the pace is still not rapid enough; it is limiting the country’s capabilities to compete fairly. although the three seas initiative is complementary to the european union, i welcome very much the european union’s, and especially the commission’s, involvement in this forum, especially in the times of the russian invasion of ukraine, where we have to support ukraine by all possible means. so, together we can facilitate not only the progress and resilience of central european region, but also deliver more on union’s common targets by unlocking the full potential of integration, cooperation and fruitful competition.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. – madam president, the election of the european parliament in 2024 will become a full—scale stress test for european democracy and actually for our abilities and willingness to protect our values. everyone in this house does hope that in 2024 the war in ukraine and the economic, social and energy crises are over. but we also clearly understand that rogue politicians, extremists, populists, haters from third countries in 2024 will keep on trying to destroy our union. that’s exactly why we need to revise and enhance the regulation on european political parties and foundations. full transparency and accountability with respect to spending and donations, streamlined communication between parties and citizens: i am really pleased to find all these examples worked out with my colleagues from the committee on budgets in this draft report on the recast of this important piece of regulation.
mr president, dear colleagues, there are roughly five to seven million russians or russian speakers who live right now in europe. in countries like latvia, absolute majority of them are latvian citizens, that is citizens of the european union. and that’s exactly why, stronger than ever, we must support enhancing, or in some cases establishing, european identity of russian—speaking residents of our union. european union has to think outside the box, demonstrate strong leadership and provide support for european media in russian language. moreover, we have to support cultural and educational activities in russian, various integration programmes. we should not rely at this moment on national governments in their capacities only. support must come from the european union and must be provided across the continent. millions of pro—european—minded russians can certainly become another powerful tool to cope with propaganda from russia and probably to cope with propaganda in russia itself.
madam president, i would like to talk today about the european parliament’s buildings policy. we see these days more and more kids all across europe, from latvia to belgium, from sweden to portugal, many thousands of them coming to school with either empty lunchboxes or no money to buy themselves lunch in the school canteen. that’s because their parents have to make a choice between paying their heating bills and paying for their children’s food. it’s a hard choice, actually. at the same time, this house keeps moving forward with the plans to tear down the iconic european parliament spaak building in brussels, because it’s 30 years old and is not energy efficient enough. erecting new premises is already estimated to cost at least eur 500 million. taking into account skyrocketing prices, we can easily imagine that the final cost will be around eur 1 billion. with eur 1 billion, you can actually heat the spaak building for roughly one century, irrespective of the level of energy efficiency in this building. my country, latvia, recently celebrated the arrival of the first next generation eu payment – eur 200 million. it’s roughly 20% of the price of one planned new european parliament building – one of many ep buildings. the european union budget is not only about money and lines; it’s about values. and what kind of values are we promoting, when we discuss spending eur 1 billion on the new ep house in brussels during the deepest crisis in recent history? what kind of message are we sending to european citizens during the first wartime winter, when we discuss creating a new hotel for meps in strasbourg instead of the madariaga building and new offices for meps and administration in the osmose building via, frankly speaking, i would say a not-extremely-transparent deal with the private sector. are we indeed talking about european values now? therefore, i urge you to vote in favour of the amendment that calls for reconsideration of the spaak building project and a stop to the osmose project.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you are trying to force the countries of the western balkans into a european union which is provoking growing distrust among its peoples. these same peoples who, like the french people, reject any further enlargement en masse. however, in your successive reports, there is a glaring difference in tone between the states concerned. north macedonia, a country which is unstable because of the activism of its albanian minority, is not a cause for concern on your part. kosovo, a territory as criminal as it is corrupt, and not recognized by five member states of the european union, has all your favours. and i laugh when i hear that he meets or would meet all the criteria. bosnia-herzegovina, the first european country to supply jihadists, undermined by the political islamism of its muslim component, which is working to marginalize, with your complicity, its serb component, is the object of all your solicitude. but when it comes to serbia, it's all about fire. you want to force serbia, after having illegally cut it off from its historical cradle, to recognize this pseudo-state that is kosovo. even the us secretary of state last week called president vučić and said: "you will not return to the european union until you recognize kosovo". i can't believe this! you want to dictate its foreign policy when it is the first link in the chain of a state's sovereignty. you want to forbid it to have relations with russia, when historically, especially since 1878, the serbian people owe its sovereignty and independence to russia. you want to prevent it from importing gas from where it wants, while your stupid energy policy threatens to freeze the people of europe this winter. you are making humiliating reports to him, forgetting that you have subjected the serbian people to inhuman sanctions and even to the bombardment with depleted uranium. so, once and for all, give up your insane project, stop your meddling and respect the rights of the people. stop your lessons on democracy while you yourself are perpetually blackmailing and threatening states if they do not join your single thought. with the european union, ideology always takes precedence over pragmatism. when you develop an oppressive prison europe, we will always defend a europe of free nations, identities and peoples.
dear colleagues, it is my privilege to announce that the 2022 sakharov prize for freedom of thought has been awarded to the brave people of ukraine, represented by their president, elected leaders and civil society. it is also important for me to tell you that there was consensus in the conference of presidents on this choice. for the past nine months, the european parliament and the world has seen ukrainians heroically defending their country, their liberty, their homes, their families. but the ukrainian people are also risking their lives for europe, to safeguard the values we all believe in: freedom, democracy, the rule of law. there is no one more deserving of this prize. this award is for those ukrainians fighting on the ground. for those who have been forced to flee. for those who have lost relatives and friends. for all those who stand up and fight for what they believe in. i know that the brave people of ukraine will not give up, and neither will we.
we now continue our debate on the commission's statement on relations between the eu and the countries of the western balkans in the context of the new enlargement package (2022/2881 ((rsp)).
madam president, what kind of enlargement are we talking about at a time when skopje is being torn apart by yet another furious anti-bulgarian campaign? commissioner, in bitola, a bulgarian cultural club was set on fire, in ohrid, the old bulgarian capital, a bulgarian cultural club was destroyed. on that day, the national assembly, the assembly of the republic of macedonia, north macedonia, passed a law that banned ngos with bulgarian names. do i need to remind you who torched the cultural clubs and when? do i need to remind you who was banning names in what year? do i need to remind you, commissioner, of the right to self-determination, the right to association, the right to organize? have you forgotten all these things, commissioner? i've asked you many times and you haven't answered me at all. because these are the so-called european values that you all defend. if you're not protecting them, i don't know what you're protecting. and i want the answer because i've asked you many times, i want a real answer. who set fire to the club in bitola? who destroyed the club in ohrid? who banned ngos? who started the anti-bulgarian hysteria in skopje? this is important, and i expect you to give me a real answer, not the usual alabaster.
madam president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, moving further in the enlargement process is not only something we owe to our friends and partners in the western balkans, but it is also a strategic priority that has grown in relevance after the russian war of aggression against ukraine. it is now clearer than ever that we need to reform the enlargement process further by moving beyond unanimity. i welcome the recommendation to grant bosnia and herzegovina the official status of candidate country, and i hope this could be that spark that the sarajevo needs to double down on its commitments. now we need to keep on moving on the right path, and the next step must be the visa liberalisation for kosovo. we do not advocate for shortcuts or cutting corners, but we must realise that we cannot afford never-ending negotiations and uncertainty at every step. with the first igc, with albania and north macedonia in july, we have partially remedied some silly mistakes from the past and we must learn the lessons. we need a realistic timeline, otherwise the partial void in the region would be filled even more by russia, china, turkey and the gulf, because the european project will never be completed until all the western balkan countries will be part of our family.
madam president, vice-president regner, commissioner várhelyi, colleagues, it’s good that there is an enlargement package from the european commission, and there are some positive aspects about it. we don’t call it enlargement but we should also better deal with the uk, norway and switzerland. we made some progress with the eastern partnership and other parts. when it comes to uk, i want to appreciate today also in the plenary that it was decided that the uk will participate in the pesco project on military mobility, which is positive. when it comes to the western balkans, it’s very positive that bosnia and herzegovina will most probably be granted the candidate status. that’s a progress in that case. but overall, i would wish for more clarity, especially regarding serbia. i’m happy, commissioner that after our exchange in the foreign affairs committee of this very parliament, where you stated that only one side would have to contribute more to the dialogue between kosovo and serbia which would have been kosovo, today you have said both sides should contribute. i call it progress from the side of the commissioner. i would say kosovo has already contributed a lot during history and also the recent months and years, and it is on serbia not only to contribute to that, but even more to join the sanctions, to join the first unbloody defence against a bloody war attack in history – that’s the state of our civilisation. if this will not happen, we have to consider sanctioning serbian companies and entities who do business with russian companies and entities because it’s still putin’s russia. and if we have heard the president announcing sakharov prize for ukraine just a few moments ago, it’s clear that we are still in this moment of attack and we defend ourselves via these sanctions.
madam president, mr commissioner, for over a decade, the once-praised eu enlargement process stalls. and, unfortunately, an end to this stagnation is not coming any time soon. in practice, it means that we have willingly turned a blind eye to the creation of a more safe and stable eu regional neighbourhood and given our adversaries an advantage for their geopolitical aspirations. now more than ever, we have to curb our decade-long diplomatic failures that have led to our partners questioning our credibility. it is time to show a real commitment by reopening the eu doors to anyone who shares our values and wants to become a member. however, this european openness must go hand in hand with alignment with eu foreign and security policy. there is a war in europe and a common approach to the wartime geopolitical realities is a sine qua non for european enlargement. russia uses this european weakness effectively and wants to reshape the european political landscape, which we cannot allow to happen. putin is trying to divide the continent and cause uncertainty in our regional partners. therefore, i welcome the commission’s latest enlargement package with the hope that we can agree upon bold decisions and return to a decade-long process of negotiations more fruitfully.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. in belarus, there is something in place that’s growing in russia today, but it has been in place in belarus for more than two years already. since the stolen election, there has been a vibrant and active liberation movement, and we should not stop supporting this liberation movement. we should not take away our sight, our view on this liberation movement, which is active all over the world. belarus is the only country in europe that was not represented at the so-called european political community (epoc) event. i like the idea of the epoc event, even while there are many questions that are open, but it is good that the countries of europe come together in this broad format. why was sviatlana tsikhanouskaya, the head of the liberation movement, not invited to this event? why was only belarus not present? i would really ask, from this side of the european parliament, to invite the liberation movement of belarus. even the council of europe has established a contact group with the liberation movement of belarus. as the title of today’s parliamentary debate is about the war of russia against ukraine and the support for belarus, i want again to emphasise that this is not only a war against ukraine; this is a war against all of us. belarus is also taking part not only militarily, conventionally in the action of war and in this aggression, but also via hybrid warfare. just remember, not that long ago when lukashenko tried to misuse refugees against our borders, against the european union, and more and more. let’s stick together here and include the liberation movement in our action.
madam president, mr commissioner, there are so many evidences of an active role of the lukashenko regime in the russian aggression on ukraine since day one. belarussian troops may not have been involved in the conflict; still, dozens of thousands of russian troops were deployed to belarus. belarussian airspace was used for launching attacks against ukraine. the supply of weapons for russian armed forces in ukraine was organised over the territory of belarus. at the same time, putin and lukashenko continued holding meetings to discuss even closer cooperation. therefore, our sanctions on putin and his regime should be mirrored on lukashenko and his cronies. it’s evident that lukashenko is malignant. however, his possibilities to influence geopolitics are lesser than putin’s. belarus, the oldest dictatorship in europe, is a true example of the limited sovereignty theory in practice. stolen elections and mass protest brought lukashenko’s regime under pressure. putin’s aggression against ukraine might, hopefully, end it.
madam president! mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the growing support of belarus for russian aggression gives us a clear view of the axis of the new terrorist states, which are russia, belarus, iran, north korea. yes, belarus is involved in the russian war! it has also virtually renounced its nuclear-free status to allow the use and deployment of nuclear weapons on its territory. i think that this is causing the european union to act symmetrically towards belarus in the same way as it has towards russia. lukashenko just as against putin, namely to impose on belarus equally severe economic and political sanctions. the belarusian regime must also be weakened to reduce its ability to cause elementary harm to ukraine and other neighbouring countries in the region. we in latvia - as in lithuania and poland - have been forced to defend our territory and the external borders of the european union against lukashenko's hybrid war since last summer. and then lukashenko weaponized thousands of migrants, who he criminally pushed across our borders. we have averted this attack, and we will avert the next one if we act together and decisively, and not allow the putin-lukashenko alliance to divide us all.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. you guys! the war in ukraine is also a culture war. in his essay on the historical unity of russia and ukraine of july 12, 2021, putin argues that russians and ukrainians are one people, one whole, part of the same historical and spiritual space. pseudo-historian putin writes a self-serving narrative of ukrainian history, culture and language that serves as the ideological basis for the occupation and annexation of the independent ukrainian state. in the essay, putin also states that he respects the ukrainian language and traditions and the ukrainian people's desire to see their country free, safe and prosperous. but in reality, we see ukrainian cities bombed, cultural heritage and sites destroyed and looted. we have just received news that the russian authorities have demolished a monument to the terror of the golodomor in occupied mariupol, claiming that it was a symbol of political disinformation. therefore, in the context of solidarity measures in support of ukrainian culture, i call for a response to the kremlin's manipulations and barbarism by investing in research and dissemination of knowledge both about the history of ukraine and about its unique and rich culture and language. we must also offer diverse and sustained support to ukrainian artists and cultural workers and support the protection and restoration of ukraine's cultural heritage through existing european union programmes and the creation of new initiatives. for example, the new bauhaus in europe could be a great platform for the revival of the cultural space in ukraine. in my country, latvia, the national cultural capital fund has set up a creative fellowship programme for ukrainian creatives who have found refuge in latvia, and i believe that each member state of the european union can design specific targeted programmes to support the creative work and collaboration of expatriate ukrainian cultural people.
member of the commission. – madam president, first i would like to thank the honourable members for our mostly constructive debate today, and i can reassure you that we have well noted the positions expressed today and are looking forward to receiving the final version of this own-initiative report. in the context of multiple crises, first covid now the unprovoked and unjustified russian war against ukraine, it’s more than ever important that the union has the tools in place to finance its priorities when it is needed. the diversified funding strategy gives the commission the flexibility it needs to finance the eu priorities in a transparent, flexible and cost-efficient manner. the commission’s priority for the coming years will be to build on the successful establishment of the eu as a recognised and trusted issuer, as we continue to navigate the volatility in the market. the constructive role of the european parliament has not gone unnoticed by investors. i can witness this in our usual investors relation activities and roadshows where we receive this as a very good and valuable feedback and it is important that we show unity in this respect also in particular in turbulent times. so i would like to thank the european parliament, the committee on budgets, and especially again, the two rapporteurs for their intensive work on this excellent and, may i say, very timely report.
the rapporteur, mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, may i thank the co-rapporteur of this report, mrs valérie hayer, for all the work she has done and also for the work she is doing which is bearing fruit, with the aim of obtaining new revenue, new own resources. i would like to thank all those who have taken their stand and expressed their views and supported this report. i would like to thank the commission for all the work it is doing and ask the council: run quickly with all the millions at your disposal. farmers and fishermen need it. the families are waiting. small and medium-sized enterprises need your support. researchers, too, are absolutely essential. there is no shortage of resources for the member states. the member states are not short of money. it's the money from nextgenerationeu, which gave way to recovery and resilience plans. the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework has €100 billion still to be implemented. in many countries, unfortunately, like mine, in the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework there are zero payments made. and so the member states have a lot of money to spend. you have to do it quickly and then you have to realize that unity makes strength. we need an energy, a digital, a security union, a common position on the objective of civil protection. and that needs resources. and debts are to be paid. and the new own resources, new budget revenue, are possible without penalising the citizen, on a very simple principle: whoever does not pay must pay. the beneficiaries of the internal market must contribute. and it is with this aim in view, i am sure, that we will build a union that is strong, solidary and where development exists throughout the territory.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european innovation council (eic) is a centrepiece of the european innovation policy. it’s a new instrument that was set up to do things differently. an essential part of the green deal, the industry’s policy strategy of the eu, europe’s innovation agenda, it was most likely the most valuable contribution to the new horizon europe programme. a one-stop agency where innovators could ask for support through grants as well as equity. the eic had a great start during its pilot under horizon 2020. it was a popular instrument with a growing reputation in the venture capital market and i am talking not about a small instrument, it is the biggest public instrument in europe in the venture capital market for deep technology. that is how it was supposed to continue on the rise in europe as well but it ran into a wall of a settled bureaucracy inside the european commission because this new approach to support innovators was pushing the boundaries of the budget implementation as traditionally done by dg budg. this fight or fear about loss of reputation led to a yearlong or more than yearlong fight between three dgs. personally, i don’t think it reached even the political level, but it blocked the biggest innovation programme for more than a thousand start-up deep-tech companies – we selected more than hundreds – which had been waiting more than a year for the money which had been dedicated to them originally. and so the programme is no longer a question of the reputational risk. who is going to manage that? the commission itself, the eib, not known as a racing horse in the capital market if i may say. the question is no longer about reputational risk, it is about reputational damage for the union. it had been blocked. we lost the confidence of start-ups in europe that we would have that interesting instrument, that challenges-addressing instrument. we need, and parliament needed, to step in through that. the whole thing is a disgrace. in the public sector, someone would have to resign. if your proceeding of a billion budget and you’re not able to allocate that budget in the private sector, you would have to resign. we needed, as a parliament, to publicly call out the problems created by the commission. we needed to publicly set out a positive agenda for the eic and we did; through great collaboration between all political groups, we quickly developed a shared vision of the future of the eic as co-legislator. we delivered a list of recommendations for the commission that would restore the transformative nature and ambition of the eic. a key recommendation is that the implementation of both the equity and the grant components are under full control of the commission. this ensures that our start-ups really experience eic as a one-stop shop. it also ensures that investment decisions are informed by the strategic interest by the union. to deliver on strategic interests of the union, the eic also needs to be able to be an investor on its own. it needs to be able to be a sole investor, to take the lead in an investment around and to take a major share in a company. it is the only way we can fix the market failure of the european vc capital market where we don’t have the needed investment in deep-tech technology. and the eic needs to deliver investment decisions in line with industry standards. deep-tech start-ups cannot wait months and months for european institutional machinery and we need the money now for the sector. we also made some recommendations to address some challenges in this programme. europe has a major issue with the underrepresentation of women in this sector. this is costing us billions of euros each year and the rise of it deprives us of great innovations that could have been done. we still have an innovation divide on our continent. this is reflected in the low participation in successful start-ups from some european regions. to sum it up, we appeal to the commission now to act. this is one of the valuable instruments that is needed for us to reach the 2030 goals because we need innovation, we need creative start-ups. so i appeal to the commission to come to terms and let this common undertaking run.
madam president, commissioner, this is a very important matter. the biggest mistake in private management is that when there's a crisis, you cut funding from research, from innovation. unfortunately, in the public space, and here it is, the european commission has even thought of stopping this program. we cannot promote the disappointment of the companies that have waited and believed in this project in the first place. second, without innovation money, we can't have start-ups, we can't have small, medium or even very large commercial companies with modern technology. it's absolutely incomprehensible why even this program should be blocked and i'm sure i'm appealing because i work with the private sector. i am vice-president of the internal market commission, vice-president of the sme intergroup and i know what it means to invest in innovation. so the key is in your hands, commissioner. we, as parliament, support it. i don't think there is a single mep who doesn't understand why it is precisely in times of crisis that we need money for innovation, for research, for re-technologising.
thank you, madam president. the european innovation council is an instrument to overcome europe's innovation backlog, which is a particularly important task in these difficult geopolitical circumstances, and we have a responsibility as representatives of the european institutions to act responsibly towards it. it has not yet been fully implemented and the delays in the cost of money, the battles and disputes between the institutions are absolutely unacceptable and must be avoided. and that is what we are also calling on the commission and the council to do. and then, of course, we have to think about creating a specific european investment bank for equity management, and a one-stop shop for up-and-coming innovators and applicants. only in this way can we achieve the technological excellence and also the commercialisation of these technologies, which will enable us all to experience the technological breakthrough in europe. thank you!
madam president, china is a trading partner of the european union. i would even go so far as to say the european union's trading partner. nearly 600 billion in trade with china, 20 billion more than trade with the united states. at the same time, the chinese regime does not share our human rights standards. we have talked about forced labour, surveillance, sanctions against dissidents in hong kong and these are just some examples. if it is not up to us to change the chinese regime - it would be naive to think so - we have a responsibility not to be complicit with that regime. so i have a few questions. what is the council's position on the ban on chinese forced labour products entering the european market? what is the council's position on a genuine due diligence mechanism for international companies working in china? what mechanism would ensure that there is no violation of human rights in a trade or investment agreement? finally, what is our position at multilateral level on the due diligence treaty, for which the commission currently has no mandate and china is negotiating? and, mr high representative, do not tell me that the solution is the 'human rights' dialogue, because then it would be naive.
madam president, mr borrell, eu-china relations are as much about securing the rules-based international order as about realistic assessments of europe’s strategic interests, not least in the areas of trade and investment. much has been said already about screening inbound investment in strategically important sectors from chips to ports, but equally important is a hard-nosed attitude towards outbound strategic investment. some european governments have already taken case-by-case decisions not to issue guarantees to companies that might benefit from slave labour or massive human rights violations in china. however, european rules are needed to tighten its investment regulations. we have export controls and a carbon border tax, so we have to make sure that foreign investment is not used to circumvent those export controls or to produce carbon leakage. in this context, i am looking very much forward to the european commission coming up with a revision of the eu’s fdi screening and outbound investment control regulations. naivety is not an option in relations with china and international relations in general.
madam president, dear colleagues, dear guests, let me contribute to this debate by adding some economic points that i consider important. so, first and foremost, high inflation is evil. it increases the cost. it reduces the value of savings. we should support ecb and national central banks in getting inflation under control. fiscal policy should not undermine this support. second, fiscal policy should be targeted to the most vulnerable and firms most affected. in order to deliver this result, it should not undermine the disinflationary policy. data showing that only a small fraction of the support is targeted are not good. on energies, two factors should be carefully considered. first of all, subsidies to energy prices should not undermine our main goal; our main goal is to provide security of supply to our households and the firms. if we reduce price too much, there is a risk that we will run out of the gas. the second, we should not undermine fair competition on the single market. the single market is the most precious economic asset of the european union, and we must make sure that it functions properly. i believe we can manage this bad crisis caused by vladimir putin. it should not lead to a deep recession. it should not hit the most vulnerable badly. to reach this result, the policies must be implemented in a smart and targeted way, and should not undermine each other and also should not undermine significant risks that we are avoiding.
madam president, commissioner, we are certainly going through difficult times. the economic and social effects of putin's war in ukraine on the whole of the european continent are present. and they are also present in the difficulties of making ends meet and in the difficulties of paying for the energy costs or the food costs of our citizens. and i think the commission has done a good job. we welcome the agreement on the repowereu plan and we welcome the social contributions on the energy sector, but we also see the member states responding with different measures, with little order, with little organisation, with almost each looking for particular solutions. in some cases it recalls the early months of the impact of the pandemic, when governments were trying to resolve but a community response was lacking. it is important that the review of state aid is well controlled by the commission. we risk jeopardising the single market and we need an instrument like sure to harmonise policies in the face of this energy crisis in the european union and to speed up the reform of the electricity market.
madam president, mr gentiloni, i have to tell you something. of all the solutions to the crisis of the value of life, i would like to highlight the central principle of targeted support for the vulnerable. but it requires that we design our support systems so that we can clearly see and reach these people quickly without excessive red tape and delays. these are the most vulnerable groups of its population, such as single parents, families with many children, people with special needs. i am convinced that targeted aid to the poor is a better solution in terms of cost than tax cuts or even such comprehensive subsidies on the price of energy, especially fossil fuels. so the best support instruments for all europeans are those that promote sustainability and reduce energy consumption, such as low-cost public transport tickets, support for families, the transition to green energy, already now and with the support of european funds. and speaking of the value of life, it's worth remembering how precious life is in europe today. i was talking, first of all, about the families in the cities and villages of ukraine, whose heating, electricity, water and basic necessities are being deliberately deprived by the criminal putin regime with its missiles. without victory over putin, there will be no victory over this crisis of the value of life!
mr president, i do not know whether we will see it as the work of heracles to which raphael glucksmann referred. what is certain is that i agree with him: interference and corruption are the cancer of our democracies. parliament, with qatargate, is actually paying for it today. yes, this assembly has done a tremendous job since 2019 - i'm thinking of the digital services legislation for example - but this scandal shows that we need to do much more and much better to preserve the integrity of our liberal democracies in the face of any form of interference, whether from russia, china or the gulf countries. in the meantime, it is essential to introduce new measures to ensure the transparency of our institution and to better defend our democratic processes. the rapid adoption of the regulation on political advertising, for example, would probably go in this direction. but we also have to look at where our vulnerabilities really are, because sometimes they are where we don't think they are. sport, for example, has become a place of interference, political influence, corruption and violation of european law. the qatargate is an example of this and it is time for the union to take up its full responsibilities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all members of the european parliament, besmirched by a corruption scandal of an unprecedented scale, with practices worthy of the most miserably corrupt banana republics. a multitude of investigations are underway, but there are also, let us remember, billions of euros of public money that have been put into the manufacture of vaccines. there is also suspicion of financial influence by pharmaceutical lobbies. the conditions under which pharmaceutical contracts were negotiated and awarded must be questioned. but where is olaf, the european anti-fraud office? why has he not yet taken up the matter of the conditions for the purchase of vaccines, when that seems to be his role? why is the belgian police investigating the alleged bribery of meps by qatar? these two alleged scandals, i should like to point out, are taking place in the deafening silence of parliament's internal control bodies. the question is: why?
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. our debates today coincide with the belgian court hearing and the indictment of our colleagues who are being held on suspicion of involvement in such illegal foreign influence. all of this shows that democracies have to be tough. and i think the sword of themis is still the most important tool in protecting our democracy against hostile authoritarian regimes like russia, like iran. and it's not just about detecting and punishing crime, but also about preventing and deterring illegal influence. we will have to update the laws of the member states of the european union to effectively detect, prosecute and punish those who commit illegal interference. but we in the european parliament and the other european institutions have to start with ourselves. we will have to review parliament's staffing procedures, especially before recruitment, to prevent such foreign infiltration of our legislature. secondly, we must immediately extend the scope of the lobby register to include contacts with foreign agents. and thirdly, we need an independent ethics committee to find out how foreign influence could have so shamelessly affected the work of our parliament, thus preventing the shame from recurring in the future.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, the latvian media recently reported about a renovation project of a leading hospital in riga that will be financed by next generation eu. eur 37 million are planned to be spent on full reconstruction of historical premises, as well as buying heavily needed modern medical equipment. spending european money to upgrade a hospital in order to cope with the crisis resulting from a pandemic, that is a fantastic example of a european programme that is both highly demanded and effectively implemented. but we are already facing a new crisis which is incomparable in its magnitude and social consequence neither to the pandemic nor any other crisis of the last decades. this time we will have to provide direct support to our citizens and help them to pay for heating, but also to buy food. hospital renovation will look like a luxury type of support, comparing to much greater challenges we will be facing in the next years. it’s not a question of social solidarity or fairness only, it’s a question of avoiding widening the dangerous gap between the east and west european union. the western part of the eu has much higher capacities to provide help to its citizens, while in the eastern part, people literally will have to choose either paying for their heating or for their food. this winter, like in my home country, latvia, we need to upscale the mff to the levels that will allow us to establish next generation eu 2.0 and help europeans directly.
