madam president, the french presidency takes over while we are still struggling with the covid—19 pandemic. it is vital to continue financing the recovery, address the social and employment related challenges resulting from the pandemic, and support our workers and our businesses in the move towards a more solidarity—based digital, greener and climate—neutral economy. i welcome the presidency’s programme, but i wish to see more priorities driven by a reinforced commitment to promoting sustainable growth and policy actions that deliver for people and for our workers, and that build stronger european institutions based on solidarity and social progress. i am happy with the presidency’s focus on the social inclusion of vulnerable people, such as persons with disabilities. still, more concrete commitments are needed to unblock the current anti-discrimination directive. i also welcome the presidency’s priorities when it comes to employment and digitalisation, but was disappointed not to see anything on teleworking and on the right to disconnect. last but not least, i hope that, after ten years, we can deliver to european citizens a european charger proposal.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, when digital platforms emerged a decade ago, the societal challenges arising from harnessing new technologies and services seemed straightforward, and the possibilities were endless. today, our situation is totally different. those same platforms have become so big, so significant, so indispensable even for our economy, for our society, for our democracies, that they have started controlling the internet, controlling our people, controlling politics, by simply having the key and access to the online content that we read, to the online content that we watch and also that we share. for the moment, the digital world is like the wild west, without any rules, without any limits or safeguards, leaving people defenceless, exposed, and exploited for their vulnerabilities. and in the middle of all this are private companies weaponising key digital technologies for their own private gains, for their own profits. times have changed, and we can do better than this. people are demanding that we step up on their behalf and create a safe and healthier digital ecosystem. the digital services act is the right tool to answer those calls and set a gold standard in the regulation of big tech. i want to congratulate the rapporteur for her hard work. the report is preserving the general principles that are so important for us, the country of origin, no general monitoring and stay-down obligation. it is also providing better choices for our consumers and transparency measures by banning dark patterns, introducing algorithm accountability and also providing greater transparency for recommender systems. finally, yet importantly, it includes stronger protection and compensation mechanisms for consumers and people with disabilities – and our political family, the s&d group, kept in mind as a primary concern the protection of our consumers. and this is highlighted throughout the whole report. the dsa should empower people to take back control of the internet, on the kind of online content they wish to read, that they wish to watch, that they wish to share. the time has come to be ambitious and address everything from user safety to consumer protection, targeted advertisement, surveillance of users, transparency, accountability, and end the tech giants’ ability to gain the digital economy for their dividends. if we don’t act now, we will miss a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking my group colleague christel schaldemose, the rapporteur, for her work on a subject which is both so large and so important in regulating and securing the digital space for users now and, hopefully, for years to come. i shall concentrate on one aspect of the matter, because of the lack of time, with the proposal for several amendments to introduce a possible exemption for the media. of course, like many here - i think everyone - i strongly disagree with the arbitrary removal of journalistic content online and the image of a newspaper at a newsstand with clipped pieces or articles is quite telling in this regard. however, an exemption for the media is, in my view, far too risky in the wider context of misinformation. it would prevent fact-checkers - fact-checkers who do the painstaking work of tracking down and updating disinformation - from doing their job, and that would be detrimental, i think, to our democracies. the dsa also now contains necessary and useful tools for the media to challenge, if necessary, the deletion of content. i therefore thank my colleagues in advance for their attention and vigilance on this point.
mr president, vice-president, commissioner, we are facing a very important debate - you have all highlighted this - based on an agreement, a very important agreement, with the digital services act. when a great agreement is reached, even if there are nuances, it is the result of great work. i think the work done by the rapporteurs is outstanding, but let me highlight the very great work done by my colleague christel schaldemose, because it was not easy and in record time she has achieved a great deal. that is a success for all of us. we'll start there. the regulation of the digital universe is a very complex matter, without a doubt, ladies and gentlemen, because of the conflict of interests and because it is a market that offers opportunities and challenges that we must correct. we are in our obligation. companies want clear rules and regulations. users or consumers need protection. digital platforms have become - for some of them - an essential element of our lives, this is undeniable. but size doesn't have to be the issue to have digital security and put citizens at the center of the debate, which is what we've done. this is a very important success for all of us, although there are shortcomings which need to be corrected. and we have a great opportunity, too, with the amendments, to improve some aspects. i'm finished. i think we are really dealing with the regulation of digital services by putting people at the centre.
mr president, congratulations on your re-election. vážená paní komisařko, mohu opravdu s radostí přivítat tento návrh, který komise předložila. návrh tohoto nařízení je nepochybně posunem, plným posunem v 21. století. realizuje zásadu, podle které můžete nejen poskytovat služby kdekoli na území evropské unie, ale také je můžete samozřejmě konzumovat, a to v digitálním věku. také přináší žádoucí ochranu spotřebitele. právě ochrana spotřebitele je jedním z těch dominantních návrhů, které v tomto návrhu jsou. i z tohoto důvodu tento návrh plně podporuji i ve směru předložených pozměňovacích návrhů. zaprvé, problém nezákonných výrobků, o tom zde již řada kolegů hovořila. to, co je skutečně nezákonné off-line, musí být nezákonné i on-line. nejde pouze o otázku nezákonnosti nebo odstraňování také tohoto nezákonného obsahu, což je rovněž provedeno v tomto návrhu, ale také i o označování. každý jednotlivý uživatel bude moci identifikovat prodejce, který prodává nezákonné výrobky, nezákonný obsah, poskytuje nezákonné služby. myslím si, že to je velkým posunem. zároveň je třeba trvat také na tom, že ten, kdo dlouhodobě porušuje přístup a pravidla, pravidla té dané platformy, tak mu bude pozastaven přístup na tuto platformu. to si myslím, že je rovněž pozitivním posunem. rovněž i pravidla vyřizování stížností. pak jednoznačně zlepšení práv spotřebitelů, reklama na internetu, možnost nebýt vystaven dlouhodobé, cílené reklamě a umožnit ji jedním kliknutím vypnout. to si myslím, že jsou opravdu velice pozitivní návrhy. jak jsem řekl, podpořím některé návrhy, které jdou ze strany výborů juri a cult, ten pro lepší ochranu autorského práva. ale jinak ten návrh považuji za zdařilý.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i am very pleased that we are discussing today this legislative milestone towards a safer and more ethical digital environment with clear rules that protect the user. because the digital services act is clearly such a step. we see from many sources and from the evidence that the online world, if it doesn't have clear rules, can be very toxic for all of us, but especially for our younger generation. the increasingly prevalent illegal content, whether it is content depicting violence, child abuse online, or content relating to illegal products, can harm us all in areas ranging from financial to mental health. algorithms that we often don't understand and don't even know are being used on us by platforms for the sake of higher profits, multiply these threats. in fact, the platforms are feeding us content that is more beneficial to them, often deliberately polarizing or misinforming, often without regard for the concrete consequences of their unethical actions on the individual and society as a whole, on democratic institutions, or even on freedom itself. i am therefore very pleased that we have before us today a horizontal regulation which, if properly applied, will put an end to such practices. i appreciate not only clear rules for the swiftest possible removal of illegal content, but also rules that will, for example, protect users from excessive pressure from platforms to give consent to the processing of their personal data. and while we still have many amendments to vote on, i believe we can agree on a common position, paving the way for this important piece of legislation to be implemented swiftly. let's greenlight a safe and ethical online world that puts human well-being and dignity at the center.
president, commissioners and mr schaldemose, thank you for your work, it is very important. the online marketplace is growing and the economy is investing in trust. that is why it is very, very brave of the european commission that we are now taking the lead and using the leverage of the single market to export our values in europe to a global world. we are big enough to be able to determine that for the large platforms that are not even based in europe, because we can use that single market for that. and i am glad that it is, of course, in a regulation, so that it is in all european countries. i also think it is great that the commission is taking over the controls and can also impose fines where necessary, because otherwise large companies could hide in certain member states which are a little more comfortable with those controls. economics is based on trust. and what did we have too much of on platforms? there was too much fraud in the online marketplace, too much fake news, and a lot of consumers' trust was betrayed. now illegal situations are treated equally online and offline, and this legislation can do that too. sometimes platforms can even help to solve illegal situations offline and for that reason we as cda support the amendment where platforms must submit data when renting takes place in inner cities which means that the actual residents no longer have the opportunity to live there. we as cda support that amendment so that the improper use of housing by the airbnb's of this world is at least stopped.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all, thank you all, ladies and gentlemen, for an important debate, a high-quality debate which i believe confirms that the approach proposed by the commission is the right way forward: horizontal regulation of the digital internal market, based on risk and accompanied by a sound and structured governance system. so, of course, there are problems for some more specific services or sectors. we will of course deal with them when necessary, with specific regulations. some have already been proposed by the commission and others are under discussion or have been announced and will be finalised soon. you mentioned, in addition to fighting against everything illegal online, the need to remind the importance of freedom of expression. and i would really like to say that we share this importance, particularly consumer protection and, of course, media pluralism. i would like to say again that the dsa was really designed with this in mind, it is extremely important, and obviously with the desire to propose a solution that will be proportionate to the size of the companies. the report we have discussed today reinforces this element which we felt was moving in the right direction. the last point i would like to make here is that dsa and dma are two sides of the same coin. the regulation of the information space and the social issues cannot be solved without facing the challenges of healthy competition, of course, on the one hand, but also, on the other hand, of protecting the values that are so important to us and to which we in europe are so attached. the whole world, i think you could say, is watching us and our fellow citizens are waiting for us with today's debate. i think we can say it loud and clear, it is time to act, but we are ready.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i think the debate today, in all its detail, in all its richness, has shown that this is a real democracy, because we have discussed freedom of expression, the rights of consumers, the ability to assess yourself. this sentence that keeps circling about, ‘what is illegal offline is also illegal online’, is a way for democracy to show its power, because what has been decided to be illegal offline has been decided in our democracies after discussions, after deliberations, after proposals, after back and forth. today’s debate shows that there’s no such thing as a digital space where democracy does not reign, and, also as a citizen, i feel very comforted by this debate. so thank you very much. i think we align ourselves. i think there’s a lot of alignment with the commission’s proposal for robust laws to further the single market and to ensure effective enforcement in respect of the legislators, tailored, of course, to the challenges of cross-border services. as my colleague has just said, this is a way to assess our rules. this is a way to make our values everyday reality for every citizen here. the commission looks forward to working closely with parliament and the council to bring this file to a swift and successful conclusion so that we can begin to change the reality on the ground in digital space for the benefit of citizens.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues so much for a very good and very interesting debate. i really appreciated to listen to all your comments, and what i see and hear is that we are rather united. of course, we have small differences, but there is big and broad support behind the proposal from the committee on internal market and consumer protection (imco) with all the associated committees. i think that is really important, and i’m so happy to hear that. of course, we have the vote. i have already just voted, and i hope that this debate also will be reflected in the vote, and hopefully we will see that people will vote to support the imco report with a couple of extra things. but i am really happy, and i do believe that what we have here is, as ms vestager just told us, an example of a good, well—functioning democracy. now we need to start negotiating with the council. that’s not going to be easy. i’m sure that we will have differences, but there is no doubt that, by the end of the day, we will adopt a very good and very important and very needed legislation. we need it, and we need to do it speedily, because we have kind of a sense of urgency here – we have so many problems we need to tackle. but today is the first major step in taking back control from the platforms and creating a democratic rulebook for the platforms. i’m really happy to participate in that, and i’m looking so much forward to the discussion and negotiations with the council. thanks colleagues, i’m sure that we are standing rather united behind this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 20 january 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the e-commerce directive is the foundation of the european digital economy. it's worked well. unfortunately, the e-commerce directive is already 20 years old and at the time when the e-commerce directive was agreed, there were no social media platforms or sharing economy platforms. therefore, there is an obvious need to update the definition of digital services. the digital services act is to replace the e-commerce directive. it is essential that the digital services legislation builds on the main principles of the e-commerce directive: the country of establishment principle, the general prohibition of surveillance and the limited liability principle.
in writing. – the eu and its parliament are leading when it comes to regulating digital markets. our single european market is rooted in key principles that allow all enterprises to legally operate, while consumers feel safe in benefiting from goods and services offered. this reality must be mirrored online. the dsa aims to safeguard the rights of consumers and users, while allowing all businesses, no matter their size, to reap the benefits of the digital market. this house will be supporting measures intended to protect citizens from illegal products, services and content present online, having outlined a clear notice and take—down procedure to remove such content. we are empowering consumers, who will now also be able to directly request platform compensation. we are calling for more transparency for algorithms, to avoid disinformation, a plague of our modern society. we are actively accepting our responsibility as legislators in ensuring a fair and just digital market. there are many things we may disagree on, but when it comes to children, there is no place for political games. the dsa will ban data collection, especially for commercial purposes, from minors. this is a noble action which must be upheld at all costs!
animal welfare is rightly high on the political agenda of the european parliament, including for farm animals. this is not only in the interests of animals and farmers, but also of consumers. we must be aware of the efforts already being made by farmers and also take into account the long depreciation periods of investments in animal welfare. if we want to improve the welfare of our farm animals, we need to work on policies that are scientifically sound and that look at the animal-by-animal approach. the rules for cows cannot be applied to chickens and vice versa. in a european and global market, increased attention to the level playing field is essential: the level playing field is rightly becoming more important, both for farmers within the eu and for trade between the eu and third countries. finally, i am also in favour of a voluntary animal welfare label. a voluntary label allows farmers who make extra efforts in the field of animal welfare to pay for their food on the final invoice. this can lead to a price surplus in the market, whereby we reward farmers who make additional efforts and investments. let's move to a stimulus policy.
the next item is the debate on the report by eleonora evi, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2020 (2021/2167(ini)) (a9-0342/2021). i should like to remind members that, for all debates of this part—session, there will be no catch—the—eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted. furthermore, as during recent part-sessions, remote interventions from parliament’s liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate the european ombudsman on her excellent work in 2020. the report's overall activities have confirmed that its work has once again proved crucial to safeguarding the fundamental rights of citizens. the office of the european ombudsman celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2020. the impact of the many investigations carried out over the years undoubtedly gives this body a central pillar in helping to improve the standards of good administration at union level. emily o'reilly has, since her election, improved further, and continues to improve, by implementing her strategy 'towards 2024', which is fully supported by this report. however, the european institutions must take full responsibility for ensuring that the ombudsman's recommendations are followed up fully and consistently, which is still not entirely the case. this is also stated in the text. the importance of this element is fully understood by analyzing what happened in 2020, a tragic year marked by the outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic. the ombudsman has carried out a tireless investigation into the transparency and integrity of decision-making processes related to measures taken to respond to the pandemic. he raised his voice to remind the european institutions of their duty to guarantee, especially in dramatic and complex times, the highest standards of good administration in the interests of the general public. this parliament, also drawing on this, has also officially pointed out that any lack of transparency in the context of the most serious public health crisis of modern times is a violation of the right of citizens to be fully informed. unfortunately, however, the european commission's response was first and foremost to be a reprehensible disregard for these assumptions. the eu executive has continued to deny, and continues to deny, full transparency on the overall content of the contracts signed with the pharmaceutical multinationals on vaccines against covid-19, which have also been achieved thanks to the use of billions of euros of public money. this report clearly highlights this criticism and calls for full transparency. the text also sets out the serious problems underlying current practices within the council of the european union, which emerged following yet another instance of maladministration detected by the ombudsman in 2020. the council continues to deny citizens direct and timely access to its legislative documents, in breach of the right of the public to effective participation in the decision-making process. the request to the council - which is obviously not present in this chamber - is therefore to change its conduct and finally bring it into line with respect for the democratic rights of citizens. the ombudsman's work has also been successful on many other fronts. on the issue of public access to documents of the european institutions, the ombudsman has on several occasions been instrumental in allowing disclosure, despite the fact that the applicable union legislation is outdated and needs timely review, as requested in the wording of this report. in the area of public procurement, the ombudsman found serious legal gaps in the existing rules on the subject, such that they were inadequate to tackle conflicts of interest, as was shown, for example, in the investigation into the european commission's serious decision to award a contract to blackrock, which manages huge investments of large oil companies and banks, for the execution of a study on the integration of environmental, social and governance objectives of the union's banking rules, which will be subject to those same rules. on the issue of active substances used in pesticides, the ombudsman's inquiries confirmed that the european commission continued to approve them in a deplorable manner, despite the official identification of critical areas or the need for additional data to confirm their safety, even in the absence of any safe use. furthermore, with regard to the eu-mercosur trade agreement, the ombudsman, at the end of her inquiries, stated that the conclusion of the eu-mercosur trade agreement negotiations by the european commission before the sustainability impact assessment had been finalised was another serious instance of maladministration. it has clearly emerged that the commission took that decision in the absence of appropriate analysis of the social, environmental and economic impacts of that agreement, in breach of its own guidelines on the matter. the report analyses these elements in detail, along with a number of others, and each of them is accompanied by specific demands aimed at ensuring that citizens are afforded the highest level of protection of their rights. i conclude by confirming my full support for the ombudsman's work, which, as indicated in the report, must also result in the allocation of increased budgetary resources to enable her to manage her overall workload effectively, given the significant additional responsibilities which have recently been assigned to her with the approval of her new statute. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and the work they have done on this text.
the ombudsman. the uachtaráin was originally named after uachtarán sassoli, nach maireann, cailliúint mhór is don eoraip. i would also like to see the laws and uachtarán metsola after the elections. the commission has also been asked to report on the implementation of the new rules, and to report on the implementation of the new rules. the rud is the official language of the european union in irish, and since that year, it is the official language of the irish language. ba bhliain dhúshlánach do chách í, céad bliain in the pandéime, laws an neamhchinnteacht a bhí chomh forleathan sin. the law is not a law, it is a law. the european union was created to act in this way, but at the same time it was also necessary to make laws in a trade-relevant and a discerning way so that citizens would have a better understanding of how to make decisions. it is part of my role as european ombudsman to ensure that laws are implemented in this process. in my opinion, i would like to see how the european council on culture and education (ecdc) can play a role. the results of the ecdc and the bpo's investigation are not timely in terms of the relevant information to be collected, because it is so common law in the member states to have information available. the relevant information shall be kept only in the member states. the commission has also analysed the situation and has put forward a number of proposals to the ecdc on how to ensure that its measures are implemented and has put forward a number of proposals to the local authorities on how to implement them. the european commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment. the decision was also taken by the joint secretariat of the ecdc in athens. this is an example of how much money can be spent on institutions to do what they need to do to learn, to be safe, and to deal with the pressures. it's one of the first things that happened in the pandemic, and it's a transfer that's been made to all the institutions. in my own case, it was a t-transfer that went smoothly and went smoothly. and i would like to thank my team for the way they have decided to continue their service to the public in a way that is professional and personal to their members. the commission's understanding of the situation is enhanced by the fact that, in may 2020, it began to develop a strategic approach to meet the needs of the football team in the context of the current work environment. in any case, the work was carried out in the framework of the european year of the environment, and the work was directed to the three main areas of research, to the environment and to the fundamental right. there was an important investigation into the decision of the board in the blackrock case. the commission has contracted with blackrock to study sustainable finance and the financial implications of such a sector. the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of employment. the commission has not yet published any guidelines for the public service obligations. the commission should also consider the provisions under the clean air act, the air regulation, and the energy directive. i was pleased to see that parliament took the relevant regulation into account when reading this. this is a clear example of the impact that the coming together of forces can have on improving the administration of the european union. another example of the influence of his most important office in the area was the "revolving doors" and as executive director of the european bathing authority. the bank shall be managed by the chief executive officer and shall be supervised by the bank and the financial institutions and bodies supervised by the authorities. in the event of a dispute between the right to work and the damage caused by the accident, the regulatory authority shall take the necessary measures to settle the dispute, and in the case of a fire brigade, to take the appropriate measures. moreover, the údarás, in the case of officials working in the private sector, has suspended access to confidential information. i welcome the decision of the authorities to take my advice, but i would like to know whether the authorities have actually met the ethical standards to be achieved. and in the years to come, there will always be a question of the fundamental right to life. the commission has also adopted a new guideline on the use of the internet in the provision of information on the european union's activities in the field of education and training. in addition, a review of the laws and procedures governing the operation of frontex has been carried out. however, the issue of sustainability has become more relevant to the european union. the commission has therefore decided to review the matter when it considers that the negotiations on the eu-mercosur agreement should be concluded before the assessment of the sustainability of the agreement is completed. in 2020, i will continue to work on the issue of trade unionism in the legislative process at the council. this is an important issue for the governments of the member states, as they have the responsibility to take decisions at the brussels summit. in fact, they are the only ones in the member states that do so in the most simple way. if you take small steps in the trade, you'll be able to do it. we have had some difficulties in 2020, but the year of remembrance is also the year we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of the office. i was proud to be in ann and to celebrate the online conference on european union in the ombudsman's office and the president of the commission šefčovič, who took part in the discussions on covid-19 implementation in the ombudsman's offices in general. in the year, we shall hold an annual meeting in london, in place of the parliament here in strasbourg, on the seventh to the twelfth of april, and shall hold the presidency of the council of the european union, with a particular focus on the shaincheist and digitithe and public administrations. after years of being in the industry, we realize that having an open accounting system is very important in terms of providing protection to the public against being caught in the air. i'm afraid, when these laws are abolished, they'll be a hundred times stronger than they were at first. i hope that you will take some of the good news from the work that is being done at the office of the ombudsman, but i would like to go to the office, but i'm not sure. thank you again for your support. i'm looking forward to working with you here.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i think that the initial interventions we have seen and we have heard, on the report and resolution on the annual report of the european ombudsman on her activities presented to this plenary, recall to us the importance of european citizenship and the specific rights associated with it. these democratic and civil rights are aimed at encouraging the full participation of european citizens, businesses, associations and ngos in the everyday life of the european union. the right to submit a petition to the european parliament and the right to complain to the european ombudsman are of particular importance. and i would like to thank ms o’reilly for her excellent and tireless work that she has been doing since she was first elected to this role in 2013, and notably, in 2020, despite the added burden caused by the covid—19 pandemic. i’m pleased to report that relations between the commission, its services and the european ombudsman continue to be constructive and mutually very helpful. the commission duly takes into account the suggestions for improvement and recommendations of the european ombudsman. this is precisely why a final finding of maladministration is very rare. in 2020 and 2021, the commission also worked with the european parliament and the council of the european union on the new statute of the european ombudsman that entered into force in august last year. this has been an important achievement, granting the european ombudsman additional rights and emphasising the importance of good administration in sensitive fields like harassment, whistleblowing and conflict of interest. let me also congratulate the rapporteur ms evi, the coordinators of the committee on petitions and all its members that were involved for their very informative and useful report, which provides the views of the european parliament on the issues that it considers noteworthy in the area of good administration for the citizens. the report and resolution address a variety of important issues, including the transparency of the decision-making process, revolving doors, access to document requests, procurement and contractual issues and staff matters. the commission takes the report and resolution seriously, given the importance of the matters addressed and the fact that, being the largest eu institution, we are the main addressee of the inquiries of the european ombudsman. the commission will examine your resolution in the next few weeks and we will reply in detail to all the issues that concern the commission. to conclude, let me please reassure you that the commission will continue working with the other institutions, bodies and agencies, including ms o’reilly and her team, to provide the best possible services and maintain the highest possible standards for the benefit of all european citizens. honourable president, i look forward to hearing the views of the honourable members and i thank you for your attention.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam ombudsman, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. my group and i personally congratulate the ombudsman on her work and thank her for the good cooperation she has had with the committee on petitions. the balance sheet can be seen. in 2020, the european ombudsman handled 2 200 complaints and opened 370 inquiries. it initiated five own-initiative inquiries. in this respect, the ombudsman's 2020 activity report should not be a problem. but unfortunately, that is not the case. i'm sorry to say it again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in practice, the ombudsman is the focus of the work of various european institutions: the european public prosecutor, the olaf, the parliament's committee on budgetary control, the european court of auditors and, finally, the committee on petitions. and the responsibilities of these institutions were, as it were, brought together in one big package and assigned to the ombudswoman. that means that we would give the ombudsman a power of attorney, a claim to exclusive representation that she cannot claim for herself. because democracy is not about the concentration of power, but about the balance of power. mrs evi, in the essay you would say that this is partly off the subject. and i am extremely sorry that we have not been able to arrange for a political shadow reporter meeting to take place. but there is still hope. my group has tabled amendments which turn the report's shortcomings on their head so that we can agree to it and - i say it again - also give credit to the ombudsman's work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur eleonora evi and also my colleagues in the different political groups for the work we have all done together also in connection with this very important report on the ombudsman's activities for the year 2020. secondly, i would like to congratulate and thank the ombudsman, emily o'reilly, for the work she has carried out during the past year, a year so full of difficulties in relation to the challenges that the pandemic has left us with. working to ensure that european institutions, offices and agencies adhere to the highest standards of good administration, transparency and even ethics in order to ultimately protect the fundamental rights and vital interests of our citizens, in order to strengthen citizens' trust in the european institutions. it is therefore important, and i will emphasise this point, and here we may not even agree with the people's group. the importance of full transparency in the decision-making process, especially on legislative files, by the council. total transparency is so important in this legislative process that this lack of transparency is leading to our citizens not finally having full visibility to what is going on in this important institution, the institution of the council of the european union. i would also like to close by also congratulating the ombudsman's office on its 25th anniversary. an office that is vital and important to european citizens. i look forward to continuing to make a difference as a european parliament, as a committee on petitions, by finally putting aside our partisan agenda and working together with the ombudsman to continue to give our citizens a stronger voice.
mr president, we need to ensure that toys sold in the eu are safe and they’re manufactured to strict standards. we need to prevent illegal, counterfeit and dangerous products being offered for sale online and in our retail outlets. the toy safety directive in place attempts to do this, but an evaluation report considered that it does have shortcomings, particularly when it comes to health and safety objectives. so we cannot ignore these findings and we need to ensure that the current directive is revised. we need better surveillance and oversight of the market to make sure that only safe and eu-certified toys circulate in the eu. it’s concerning, the amount of unsafe and counterfeit toys that are circulating. it’s not good enough and we need to do more. online marketplaces need to play a stronger role. they need to know the business that they’re engaging with. they need to ensure that all the products that they sell are safe. we need more cooperation also in our member states to coordinate surveillance, to share information and to equip competent authorities with the resources they need to do an effective job: both human, financial and technical resources. we can use technologies such as artificial intelligence, that are evolving, to provide greater detection. connected toys can create new vulnerabilities and pose a risk to children’s safety, their privacy and, importantly, their mental health. so we need to introduce safety mechanisms to protect our children. and i welcome the fact that we look forward to a revision of this directive to ensure that our children are safe when they play with their toys.
, s&d mr president, as the father of a one-and-a-half-year-old girl i am concerned about access to toys that could harm my daughter. toys that contain substances that are dangerous to our children's health, that spy on our children and that collect information without any consent on our children. and let me give a number of examples of toys that we currently have on our market. popular toys, such as the slime toy, a toy which is a coloured substance, which according to tests carried out on this same toy, has a level of a particular chemical, boron, which in a number of cases is fourteen times higher than the limit of what is accepted at european level. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. we've had companies even at the european level come in and face a number of criticisms because of dolls that have ended up on the european market that were doing ongoing surveillance on our children. therefore, the toy safety directive is very important in order to ultimately protect our children.
the commission's vice-president madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this very rich and very useful debate, which allows us to better understand the situation and the challenges facing young europeans, and to draw together possible ways and actions to help them, particularly but not exclusively in the context of the european year of youth. i am sure that together we can find the best way to convert these very useful ideas, suggestions and conversations into tangible results for the benefit of our youth. i fully agree with those of you who said that this is not the time for diagnostics and nice words but for translating these good intentions into practice. and this matters to young europeans because, after all, this is their union and they hold the future of this union in their hands. to do that, we will not start from scratch. we will build on the solid instruments we have already developed and we will launch new actions, many of which we presented in my introductory statement, to ensure that the legacy will continue to involve and support youth not only this year but beyond 2022. let me mention two points, specifically one mentioned in the debate and one not mentioned. the one mentioned is, of course, internships. i want to be very clear. for us in the commission, traineeships are an avenue to employment and to learning. under no circumstances are traineeships free labour. i want to be very clear about this. we will review the quality framework for traineeships to see make sure its fit for purpose. the second point, and you will allow me to make it in my mother tongue, is on another youth-related subject, one that was not mentioned sufficiently: violence in sports and hooliganism, a phenomenon that shook my country recently. after the tragic murder of alki kambanou, the glass overflowed. it is the duty of all of us to work together to put violence once and for all out of the field, out of the clubs, out of sport. not only; together with the associations, federations, leagues, the council of europe. violence and hooliganism will not be dealt with by acting reassuringly, by overlooking or ignoring the facts. the problem is here, in our neighborhoods, streets, gyms and stadiums. we must, as europe, solve the problem now. the greatest responsibility lies with those who hold sport in their hands, the national federations, and we want them to act now. if they don't, we will. we won't do it alone. we will do it with the help and active participation of uefa and fifa, who are ready to help. i declare here, before the european parliament, before the elected representatives of the european people, that i personally will never stop my efforts to break once and for all the chains of violence, of hooliganism, of discrimination, of racism, of anti-semitism, of fanaticism. we have to take these phenomena out of sports and out of society. it is time to stand up and defend what unites us: our european values. it's our responsibility. the youth of europe demands it. the fight against violence among young people and fans is our duty to society and to the younger generation.
president of the council. madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this debate and for a number of proposals that have been raised. first of all, i want to say - we have heard it again from the european commission - that the year 2022, which is dedicated to youth, must be a year with concrete content. we are collectively committed to this, and you have all been very clear on this, across groups and across political sensitivities. i would like to mention a number of initiatives, ideas and proposals which i undertake to bring to the council, even if not all of them can produce immediate results. i am thinking of the question of having a plan of the type "one young, one solution" - i am using a french term, but it has been mentioned in other terms here - so that young people, whatever their situation and whatever their background - many have stressed the diversity of sociological and geographical contexts - have a solution adapted to each of their needs. i also note a number of points made on the 'youth guarantee', its strengthening and the adaptation of the system, in view of the feedback we have had for some time now. i would like to make some very specific proposals - which i will not go into here - on the question of mentoring and on the question of traineeships, which has been raised by many of you. we discussed this at the previous plenary session: there is no competence that the council could activate in this respect or bring to fruition in our debates, but i believe it is important to think, in terms of good practice and in particular remuneration, about a social protective content for internships in our public institutions and, beyond, in our countries, because we have a youth that has suffered - it was recalled - the full force of this crisis. we need to think differently about its protection and its flourishing in the months ahead. i am committed to the ideas you have mentioned. sometimes they are not all consensual, but, at the instigation of the european commission, i believe we can use this year to deploy new tools to strengthen our budgets, in particular, and to develop in the different member states those relevant ideas that better protect europe's young people.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. young people are the future of europe, so it is important to support the personal, social and professional development of young people who are suffering from the negative effects of the covid-19 pandemic. the hungarian government, recognising this, is helping young people with effective, concrete measures, leading europe in supporting young people. it is among the leading countries in terms of its youth policy. in hungary, young people under 25 have been exempt from paying personal income tax since the beginning of the year, which means a 23 percent increase in their income. the student loan2 and the student loan plus can be used free of charge for student support. since 2018, the hungarian government has reimbursed the kresz course and exam fee for those under 20 years of age, and the fee for the first success language exam can also be claimed back. the suspension, reduction or cancellation of student loan debt in the case of childbearing by female students in higher education who are covered by student loans is supported by the hungarian state. the unemployment rate in hungary has fallen by a third since 2010. hungary's low youth unemployment rate is significant in europe, with an unemployment rate of 11.9% for 15-24 year olds compared to the european average of 16.9%. i hope that this year will also provide many opportunities for young people to make their voices heard. we have a responsibility to the young and to future generations!
in writing. the pandemic has hit young people very hard. for many, opportunities for personal growth have been diminished or cut off. youth employment rates have fallen, while the number of young people not in employment, education or training has increased. personal income of young people has decreased, with an increased risk of poverty and social exclusion. in addition to the socioeconomic impact, the pandemic has had a number of other direct consequences: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the pandemic has hit boys and girls in what should be their prime. we must therefore take steps to prevent these serious consequences from becoming a structural problem over time, thus depriving young people of their future. the president of the commission has declared 2022 the european year of youth: in order to achieve this, the european youth strategy must be fully and effectively implemented, ensuring the effectiveness and intersectionality of all youth policies. investing in the younger generation, promoting their integration into the world of work and combating their social exclusion must be our priorities today.
in writing. – the devastating consequences of the pandemic and the social rubbles it has generated have had a disproportionate effect on our youth. mental health issues, unemployment, and insecurity about the future: the european union faces now the unprecedented challenge of action for its young citizens, their wellbeing and their professional stability. all these goals should be translated into concrete actions that cannot wait any longer. let us think about combating youth poverty, ensuring decent working conditions, including fair remuneration at work and for traineeships. let us think about the promotion of mental health, which still does not receive the importance it deserves, especially in such a historical period that has contributed to increasing fear, loneliness and uncertainty among the youngest citizens. the post-pandemic social recovery will not be easy - we all acknowledge that - but we cannot miss the opportunity of empowering our youth and supporting their social rights. the pressure stemming from the crisis we have witnessed should not be the excuse to accept compromises on the most vulnerable groups of our society, including the youth. as socialists, we remain vigilant and we call for a prompt full implementation of the european pillar of social rights.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we've now been through two years of the coronavirus pandemic. the signs are of a relaxation on the way to normality. in germany too, such plans are taking shape. the free movement of our citizens is part of that normality. it is one of our greatest achievements in europe. it is crucial that we make safe travel for vaccinated and/or immunised people in europe as smooth as possible. the last two years have been particularly stressful for the tourist industry. an example from my constituency in saxony-anhalt: in 2020, overnight stays fell by almost half by almost 40% last year. safe and easy travel is crucial to the recovery of this sector. the european people need reliable and clear signals in this area. the harmonized rules for travel within the eu came into force at the beginning of this month. i welcome the adoption of this council recommendation. however, for the 2021/2022 winter season, it came much too late. uniformity was the goal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. recently, the german government decided to grant the status of a recovered person for only three months instead of the recommended six. today it will decide whether it will stick with the eu proposal or go along with it. that 's why i 'm asking you . the harmonisation of travel rules needs to be further promoted and monitored in order to make the 2022 summer season in europe a success.
mr. chairman, we're talking about a green certificate, free travel to europe. what time are we having this conversation? that means the problem's still there. i've been vaccinated three times, and it doesn't help me to move freely in europe. now, don't get me wrong, the green certificate was a good idea that did a lot of work in the beginning to bring order to the chaos of the pandemic. of course, the discovery of the vaccine also helped a lot with that, and i, as a european politician, am okay with wearing a green certificate, but no pink glasses. and let's not get carried away. europe has not found a single solution. she found a vaccine, she found a certificate, she found a data exchange system, but not a single solution. and you know why? because every country changed its rules whenever it wanted, as many times as it wanted, and how it wanted. so we promised people that the green certificate would give them back their normal way of life. now before every flight, in addition to a green certificate, you need a qr code, a pcr test, an affidavit, or all of them combined. ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid being laughed at and to be trusted, we need a rule that applies throughout europe, in every single member state, today and tomorrow, without changing without warning. let's do it this way, dear colleagues, so it doesn't matter if you're flying from berlin, brussels or burgas.
mr president, the new rules on coordinating travel were much needed. the tourism sector cannot sustain the halt of travel any longer. the ecosystem is suffering and, whilst we celebrate this positive step forward, we must keep in mind that coordinating travel will not necessarily translate into higher volumes on its own. in fact, we must continue working on other elements to the puzzle, for example, the aviation sector anticipating higher costs for travellers, especially considering the sharp rise in fuel prices, and travel anxiety, which remains in case travellers test positive whilst abroad and are caught up in quarantine with the ancillary costs involved. we must continue addressing these issues at eu and national level. jump-starting a sector that contributes 10% to eu gdp will require a continuous concentrated effort. the eu has been active through the introduction of the digital certificate, the re-open eu app, the safe relaxation of state-aid rules, but we want a continuation of this effort, as well as greater effort by all member states. a key word must be stated here: resilience. in the process of defining the eu’s strategy for tourism, we must gather lessons learnt and prepare contingency plans in the eventuality of future disruptions. resilience, in my opinion, is not adequately mentioned and emphasised in the transition path to a conclusion, and must be at the heart of our recovery if we want to avoid new interruption of travel in the short and long term. tourism cannot stop again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all ukrainians. all europe, all the west, is on the side of freedom and democracy. we will continue to counter the violence of the russian aggressors with the strength of our values: the unity, cohesion and tough resistance of the people of ukraine, the strong nation of europe! they forced russia to sit around a table, however. we all want peace to be achieved, we hope that the talks can continue to achieve fundamental objectives: peace. but peace does not mean colonization of a free country. many citizens of ukraine are fleeing the war; it is our duty to create humanitarian corridors and a great plan for the reception of refugees. the tragic and dramatic events of these days must also push us ever more to have a real common foreign and defence policy. we need an even stronger europe to defend our values. energy independence is also needed: we need a single energy market if we are to be truly free, otherwise we will always be subject to blackmail by someone. but we must also have a europe of solidarity, which helps the families and businesses which have been very enthusiastically mobilized in favour of the sanctions, but which are also prepared to pay a price for them. but the states and the european union must look to these brave entrepreneurs and these brave families, trying to help them in the months and years to come, because, it is true, freedom and democracy come at a cost, but the cost of our commitment is certainly priceless. but we must look to those who fought with great determination.
madam president, we have all seen how an unjustified and unprovoked aggression by the russian federation in ukraine has produced a humanitarian catastrophe of massive proportions. today, as i speak to you, thousands and tens of thousands of women, children, elderly people are trying to save themselves, and the border crossings are crowded with these people, these people who have a right to a life, to a civilized life, and they have a right to survive. the romanians have mobilized: the government, local authorities and thousands and thousands of individual citizens who come to give them what they can: food, shelter. the situation is tragic. commissioner johansson was there yesterday and saw what an absolutely deplorable condition these people who have had to leave their homes have had to endure, and i want to give you just one example: a woman who was asked at the border crossing what her wealth was. she had a little baby in her hand, an unborn baby, and a little backpack in her back. the husband stayed behind to defend his country. this is our lesson and this is why we must all fight to give the status of candidate country to ukraine, moldova, because these people deserve respect and deserve our support.
madam president! i never imagined i'd be on this stage calling for an end to the war in ukraine. we must stop the heralds of war, the oppressors of freedom, the rule of law, democracy, human rights. nationalist autocrats, including in europe, will continue to undermine democracies until we stop them. russia's actions threaten the post-war order and security of all of europe. exploitation in ukraine for political or profit-making purposes is also a disgrace. only the unity and rapid response of the western democracies is hope. the slovenians still have a very vivid and painful memory of the bloody balkan war. we want peace. there's a big peace rally in slovenia today. we need to help those affected by war, and thank you to all of you who selflessly collect and provide aid to refugees, to people in need, not just today, but always. every war ends at the negotiating table. it's absurd that it would lead to death, destruction and suffering. let us do everything we can to ensure that peace is brought about by the power of international law and words, not by the argument of force. thank you so much.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable high representative and dear colleague commissioner mcguinness, honourable members of the european parliament, but first and foremost, dear ukrainians, i have to say that i never seen a debate in the european parliament charged with so much emotion, solidarity and the sense of common european belonging. as you know, we come from different countries, from different political families, but we are discussing today an attack against the most fundamental european values that we all share. and therefore, today we are all ukrainians. because the people of ukraine are fighting for our values. they are fighting for our freedom and they are fighting for everything we believe in, for europe as we know it, for europe, as we treasure it. and we will need the same unity as we felt this afternoon in this house in the days, weeks and months ahead. it’s clear that the kremlin has failed in its goal to crush ukraine. it failed to break the spirit of brave ukrainians. it failed to divide or scare europe. on the contrary, the bravery and courage of all ukrainians and the calm and determined leadership of president zelenskyy and his government energise not only ukraine and ukrainians, but the whole of europe, all democracies, and i believe every peace-loving human being in the world. mr president zelenskyy, we have been working together to reform ukraine. we have been working together on energy security, on energy independence, and we will be working together to build a strong, democratic ukraine. mr president, you ask us to prove that we are with you and i would like to respond to you: we are. we will make sure that the sanctions are vigorously applied and not only on russia but also on belarus. we will do our utmost to supply you with everything you need. and we will be with you to rebuild your beautiful country after your victory. nobody in europe can doubt today that the people that stand up so bravely for our european values belong in our european family, and therefore i want to reassure you that as we welcome your women and children in poland, slovakia, hungary, romania and other european countries, in the same warm, receptive way, we will open our arms to ukraine in our common house of peace, democracy and prosperity called europe. slava ukraini!
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on behalf of the council. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. russia is, after the aggression against ukraine, at a turning point in its post-soviet history. russia has cut off one of the last remaining links in its relationship with the european union. this link was the minsk agreements. president putin has liquidated them. they were agreements which were imperfect in many respects, drawn up at a time when a ceasefire had to be made in a previous war. however, these agreements enshrined the territorial integrity of ukraine and their implementation, which is now impossible, marked a hypothetical path towards a normalization of diplomatic relations between russia and the european union. this reference and this possibility are now gone. that is why i say that russia is today at a turning point in its trajectory in the post-soviet era. this tremendous conflict can only be brought to a positive conclusion by a return of russia to basic international norms and principles. this is an opportunity which the european union must take advantage of to develop mechanisms and treaties which establish stronger security guarantees and mechanisms which make it possible to verify their implementation. i would like to remind you, after the enthusiasm of a parliamentary session, that in the end the path of negotiation and dialogue is at the very heart of what the european union is. we are not a military union and have not declared war on anyone. we are a union of member states which has precisely renounced war as a means of resolving conflicts. we are not at war with anyone, but we are standing by someone who has been attacked, and we are prepared to mobilize all our diplomatic resources to safeguard the security of europe, but also to find a solution to the conflict. because sanctions are necessary, inevitable, but in addition to sanctions, we need solutions. these sanctions will have a very big effect on the russian economy and mr putin cannot say that he did not know this, because we have warned him: president von der leyen many times, the president of the council... how many times have we said that sanctions would have massive effects and high costs; and they will certainly have them. the ruble has plunged 40%. control over almost half of russia's foreign exchange reserves will have a huge effect on its economy. it's a default threat. it is certainly a measure next to which the removal of a few banks from the swift system is of minor importance. because right now, the numbers are singing. russia had long been preparing for such a situation and had been moving its reserves away from the dollar and the euro to yuan and gold. when russia took crimea, 87 percent of its reserves were in dollars and euros; now they are around 40 percent. but it is still a lot, because gold - 135 million gold reserves - must be able to be sold and for that, someone must be able to buy it. and our financial sanctions will also prevent the mobilization of this resource. so those financial measures certainly. ..these unprecedented financial measures will go in the direction of a potential default, which will have consequences for the whole financial system, for the global financial system. so don't underestimate the importance of what we have decided to do and what will follow. i want to stress that. now we have to work diplomatically all over the world, reaching out to all countries in order to build a state of mind in order that the aggressor is condemned. on that, i can assure you, me as the high representative, all my colleagues, members of the foreign affairs council, all our delegations, all our embassies, will be strongly working in order to get a result in the vote at the general assembly. this is the most important thing that we have to do right now because, i repeat, this is an issue that belongs to foreign and security policy, which is intergovernmental, and it is the member states that have to take the lead on this response in the diplomatic sphere. the second thing that has been discussed today, and is maybe more important than many of us could believe, is our dependence on gas. the president has been saying all the time we have to reduce this dependency, but i've been hearing for the last 20 years that we have to decrease this dependency and this dependency has been increasing during the last 20 years. so, from now on, let's put our work in accordance with our saying because we paid usd 700 million before the war for gas and oil and gold imports from russia, and every year we import 200 billion cubic meters of gas. we have to increase renewables, the president said, have renewable hydrogen, but keep in mind that the amount of power in a country like italy in renewables, in a year, is less than half a billion cubic meters. we have in front of us strong work to do, and we have to remain committed to it and we have to explain to our people what it means. this is a good occasion to develop the best, most noble side of political activity, which is pedagogy. this is the moment to do pedagogy. i understand the enthusiasm and the approach of a parliamentarian chamber in a moment like this i have been a parliamentarian, like you, for many years and even the president of this house and i know that this is the moment to show enthusiasm and support, but then we have to go to acts. so next time, when you discuss again the budget of the european union, remember that we need resources to do what today we are doing with an intergovernmental fund that this parliament has never approved, because it is not in its area of competence. put more defense and security in your mind-set; stop discussing theology about strategic autonomy. call it the way you want, but we have to be more responsible. we have to take our responsibility more into our hands. we have to be strategically responsible and this has nothing to do with weakening transatlantic alliances which, by the way, have proven to be stronger than ever. our unity with the transatlantic partners has been 100% so nothing against weakening nato because we develop our capacities. we have to become a hard power. i know that the words may frighten some people, but hard power, i insist, is not just talking about the military. hard power is about having a power to coerce, the power to influence the decisions of others, and what we are doing with these measures is a lot of hard power. be prepared for the answer. be prepared for the consequences. don't put all your strength in your mouth. don't say nice things only. from now on, we have to be prepared to resist. we have to be prepared to act in the long term with a clear understanding of our challenges and our capacities. this is the moment for the european union to discuss what we want to be, what we are and what the limits are of what we can do, and what we want to do in the future. in order to face the challenge of the future, there are a lot of things that we have to review, a lot of things about our procedures, our methods, putting more attention on our capacity to act than on the time that we spend on internal discussions. whats happening today in ukraine reminds me of budapest in 1956. i was nine years old, but i remember listening to the radio about how the russian tanks were entering budapest. it reminds me of 1988, the prague spring. i was an officer in the spanish army then and my unit was put on alert. i don't know why, it was completely useless. on both occasions we did nothing because we couldn't do anything. but from now on we have to face a confrontation between us, democracies, people who believe in freedom and a multi-party system where citizens choose their governments, when we live in a free market economy and we are trying to put together economic efficiency and social cohesion, and autocratic regimes which support themselves with a clique of people who take advantage of the system, while the great majority of the people do not improve their living conditions. all the war treasury that putin is taking from gas payments doesn't go to increase the well-being of the russian people. it goes to make his war machine more powerful. all the money that is spent to pay for russian oil and gas is not used to increase the welfare of the russian people; it is simply used to increase their military capability. the time has come, i think truly and honestly, for europe to reflect on itself: what do we want to be in the future? i think we want to be something more than what we are today. this is the real challenge we will have to face in the coming weeks, months and years. it is also for this reason that the conference on the future of europe plays an important role.
thank you very much, high representative. that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – i fully support the resolution but it is not enough. i feel that i am also guilty for what is happening in ukraine. we are heating our family house with the russian natural gas. as we are paying a high price for russian natural gas, we helped putin to collect usd 600 billion as governmental sector reserves. and now he is using this money to kill innocent people in ukraine. it was a huge mistake to believe that russian natural gas is needed for us as much as our money is needed for russia and that such interdependence helps to build up democratic russia. it is not enough to talk about sanctions against russia. we have to fully isolate russia and set an embargo on russian crude oil and russian natural gas. i believe there should be no international sports competitions with russian sportsmen, no eu visas to russian citizens and further. full isolation is also costly for us but we have to remember – freedom is not free.
in writing. it's the sixth day of the war between ukraine and russia. i condemn the russian aggression, which must be stopped as soon as possible. we must support all efforts, all steps that will help to bring about an early peace and urge the parties to make a decision in the interests of human life. the ukrainian people are living in terrible times, we must help those who remained in the country and those who were forced to leave their homeland! it is important that humanitarian aid can reach ukraine as quickly and as simply as possible, and this is essential and urgent. and the borders of the european union must remain open for people to seek refuge and safety. furthermore, the disinformation campaign against hungarians in hungary and transcarpathia is a matter of great concern, as it threatens the security of the hungarian minority living in the westernmost region of the country. we must do everything to eliminate this, so that no one endangers the internal peace of the multiethnic area! like hungary, transcarpathian hungarians support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine, advocate peace and extend a helping hand to refugees arriving in the region regardless of nationality!
in writing. – the unprovoked invasion of ukraine by the russian federation casts a dark shadow from the past over europe; a shadow we must counter. mr putin thought the eu would be paralysed by its internal divisions. this was not the case. we are responding united, backed by the free world. we are responding without violence but with sanctions. war cannot lead to anything good! the protests throughout russian cities show that this war is the desire of few against the will of many. by all means, europe needs to support ukrainian and innocent russian people. let us back them however we can. let us not forget about them when the novelty of the news fades in a month or two. human rights and international law and order must be respected and defended.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what we feared has happened, and i have repeatedly denounced it. the member states have preferred to concentrate their efforts on recovery and resilience plans, which you say is a good thing, but to neglect cohesion policy and to arrive at the very serious delays of today is not conceivable. not surprisingly, the rhetoric of urgency has led the commission to turn a blind eye to too many disruptions, because recovery and resilience plans were not to be turned down. i would like to call for this not to happen with the partnership agreements for the next programming period, the consequences would be disastrous. all too often we talk only of spending resources, a necessary but not sufficient condition for real economic, social and territorial convergence, which is increasingly remote. above all, do not give in to the pressure of those who want to water down climate targets with greenwashing operations, using the rhetoric of emergency. we are living in these terrible days: delaying the transition is only a gift to those who work with fossil fuels and certainly not to our citizens, who are increasingly vulnerable.
dear chairman, ladies and gentlemen, according to the recent census, croatia has lost 400,000 or 10% of its population in the last 10 years. most of them emigrated to germany, ireland, and other western countries. these are mostly highly skilled and highly educated people. so when we look at how the whole of european policy, including cohesion policy, is working on croatia, the situation is clear: croatia is investing in the education of these people, and these people are contributing to the economic development of other countries. the growing economic disparity between poorer and richer countries is certainly not going to contribute to cohesion. quite the opposite. the conclusion is therefore very clear: the european union must be realistic and provide better and more effective instruments to support the development of poorer countries and catch up with the developed ones.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the importance of cohesion policy for europe's regions and cities goes without saying. nevertheless, the availability of these funds now seems even more important than ever. cohesion policy can make a significant contribution to the recovery from the covid-19 pandemic, which, like many crises, has deepened inequalities in the european union. not to mention the other crisis we are facing right now, which is the full impact of russia's shameful aggression on ukraine. the fact that there are significant delays in the adoption of partnership agreements seems therefore to be a cause for concern. we have money, but the money is not going to the people. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment-related measures, including the measures to be taken by member states to reduce the impact of the measures taken on the environment. this is partly understandable, because as an anti-crisis instrument it is a bit easier and faster to use. we must therefore realistically assess the risk of losing part of the funds as a result of the delays, as the commissioner has said. is there a dialogue between the commission and the member states in this regard? if so, what are the most common reasons for delays and how can the commission help member states to overcome these difficulties in order to speed up the process and, of course, without neglecting quality? the loss of any funds in the situation we are facing, in the crisis we have on the eastern border of the european union, would be a disaster.
madam president, madam commissioner, at every historical stage, cohesion policy has brought new peoples and countries into the union. it has thus become fundamental to the construction of europe. in the face of the covid-19 pandemic, europe faced a very serious economic crisis, to which it responded with ambitious recovery programmes. a new crisis is emerging, with the war in ukraine in our immediate neighbourhood. neighbouring countries and regions are at the forefront and new emergency policies will have to be decided. but while this succession of crises requires us to take immediate action, we must not depart from the fundamentals of cohesion policy, which are an essential pillar of the union. the delays we are seeing should therefore be alarming. we must ensure that they are absorbed and, above all, that the cohesion policy is firmly set for the future of europe. in these troubled times, europe must rely on its solid foundations. cohesion policy is one of them. it has a vital role in declining the priorities voted in this parliament for all european territories. we are counting on you to hold firmly to this course.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all recognise that cohesion policy is fundamental, it is crucial. and it is crucial for cohesion, for competitiveness and for sustainability. therefore, coordination between cohesion policy and recovery and resilience plans is urgently needed to achieve synergies. and it is also very urgent that not a single penny of cohesion policy 2014-2020 is lost. and i was asking myself a question: what is the amount of unauthorized spending that was available from 2014 to 2020 that could be used, for example, to deal with the calamity that we're all experiencing? but it is also urgent that the partnership agreements be implemented, and for that they must be approved. and, unfortunately, only greece has the approved partnership agreement. and these partnership agreements, commissioner, should involve the territories and the beneficiaries. they should be based on simplicity and then also transparency. we needed to know where the money is going, what projects, who the final beneficiaries are and where. because there 's one thing that bothers me: the commission's proposal is to be seen, for example, as a policy of cohesion, which is often anti-cohesion. often, money earmarked for poorer regions goes to richer ones, which increases regional disparities rather than reducing them.
madam president, cohesion policy represents one of the most successful examples of european integration, which can help us reduce inequalities among european regions, especially the most peripheral ones. while the eighth report on cohesion has shown us that there are still significant gaps that we need to bridge, a swift implementation for the programming period 2021-2027 would mean to give concrete answers to citizens and small businesses in such difficult and uncertain times. ahead of international women’s day, i’d like to reiterate the call of the report on cohesion policy and gender dimension, a dossier on which i worked last year for the application of gender budgeting in all stages of the evaluation, implementation and monitoring of the european structural and investment funds. let me conclude by stressing the importance of ensuring gender-sensitive partnership agreements that can also contribute towards reducing inequalities between men and women, fighting the feminisation of poverty, combating women’s exclusion from many economic opportunities and preventing gender-based violence and all forms of discrimination.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! we're worried about gas prices, and there's a terrible war going on right next door. putin's murder of ukrainians is largely done with our money and the situation is really dramatic. ukrainians who fight bravely often pay the highest price. we must help them by all means available, because they are also fighting for our values and on our behalf. and that means we have to be willing to pay the price. war is not comfortable. those costs are already there. the bills are going up all over the union, and it's not because of the green policy, because it makes us independent of putin. they're going to grow even more because we can't continue to fund the russian criminal regime. we need a plan to completely stop buying resources from russia. maybe temporarily, maybe only until the war is over, but we need to impose a full embargo on russian supplies immediately. the commission's proposals today are a first step. we must build on them for further action, but at the same time we must protect the most vulnerable, in this solidarity with ukraine, protect the oldest on our continent, for whom the cost of solidarity with ukrainians may be unbearable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european and world energy markets are clearly under great pressure from increased demand for the sake of economic recovery, the problem of insufficient storage and, of course, the russian invasion of ukraine. the rise in energy prices we are witnessing has raised legitimate concerns in the european union, with particular emphasis on gas, which has jumped 170 percent in price in the past year. this price spike is of course hitting hard on households and small and medium-sized enterprises, which form the backbone of the european economy, but, as we all understand, it is also triggering a chain reaction of price increases. it is clear that the european union must become a relevant player on the global energy scene if it is to have a greater impact on energy prices and prevent market manipulation. we welcome this framework, but i think it is really just a framework and it is not enough for us. the european green deal provides us with a unique opportunity to implement a strategic reform of the european energy market and to improve the energy security and resilience of the european union. to do this, we need to diversify our energy supply, increase energy efficiency, complete the transition to clean energy and expand storage capacity, and of course, establish a common energy supply system. we did that when there was a covid-19 vaccine, we saw it had success. in any case, europe needs to redefine its energy structure. in conclusion, the republic of croatia, from which i come, has taken decisive and timely steps to provide citizens with sufficient amounts of gas at affordable prices and i would like to highlight the strategically important lng terminal as well as short-term measures because it is the lng terminal that has enabled croatia to cope with this crisis more easily. we are facing major challenges in the energy sector and we need a strong and unified european response.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the unprecedented crisis we’re facing on our eastern borders exacerbates the already difficult situation with energy prices being on the rise since 2021. such a scenario not only means higher electricity and gas bills for citizens and businesses, but also negative impacts on our value chains and higher prices even on very basic items, breads, pasta, biscuits, coffee to mention just a few. who is going to bear the costs? consumers and small businesses. we should not forget that security of supply is an essential pillar of our energy union. renewables are the solution in the long-term, yet for the time being, we need to be realistic, diversifying sources provision and supporting the most vulnerable, especially those in small and peripheral member states that depend on imports. therefore, it’s important that we monitor the situation and act to make sure that we really leave no one behind.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the russian invasion of ukraine will also have profound economic consequences for the eu. it is therefore right that consideration should be given to suspending the european debt brake in 2023 as well. it also gives us more time for the necessary reform debates. first, we need a reform of the debt rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. but we also need a fundamental reform of the european semester. so far, the semester has been largely ineffective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european semester does not provide effective coordination. we can and must change that! the european semester must become more democratic. we do not need any further recommendations for neoliberal structural reforms. instead, we need economic and financial policies that allow for increased public investment and promote social balance.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in raw materials, starting with gas and oil, has further increased inflation in europe, eroding the spending power of our fellow citizens. many businesses today are in danger of closing down forever. the public accounts of european states already tested by the pandemic will have to cope with the cost of welcoming refugees (30 billion this year alone), increased military spending (40 billion), the explosion in energy bills and new subsidies for businesses. the current european budget is not able to meet these challenges; the common issue of debt securities, the eurobonds, must therefore become permanent. the european commission's proposal for action to promote energy security is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough. the limits on the price of energy cannot be set by individual states, the union should negotiate a single price on the market as for vaccines. we must also achieve the food self-sufficiency that is needed to support agriculture by containing the prices of wheat and maize. it is an appeal to the european commission, to commissioner gentiloni, who will speak after me: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. – madam president, a new crisis is with us – unprecedented. february 24th changed the course of our history. and in these circumstances, i think that the importance of coordination and common political will is stronger than ever. and this is why we appreciate the report we are discussing this morning. we thank irene tinagli and helmut geuking. i think we will need – in the coming months and probably years – unity and ambition. they are needed to stand with ukraine and to face the new challenges. these new challenges, in my view, have two key words. one is autonomy, and the second one is again, solidarity. and we will need autonomy and solidarity to face challenges on defence, on energy transition, on the refugee crisis. on economy, recovery as usual is not an option. and we all know that this crisis will weaken our growth. in the forecast i presented exactly one month ago, we were estimating a growth of 4% for this year. i think we will have more of negative situation, and apart from the growth weakening, we will also have to face disruption in our production chains and consequences for jobs. but we need to intervene. we need action to avoid that the recovery could completely derail and to avoid the increase of divergences among member states, because we know that also this crisis, especially on the refugee issues, but potentially also on the energy supply, is an external shock that could have asymmetrical consequences. and this is the basis for our reaction. we need to react using all the national and common rules and tools available that we can agree upon to avoid these consequences. also, the ongoing discussion on the economic governance is not another story. it’s part of this story, and to try to find an agreement, consensus in the parliament, among member states, will be the task that the commission will have in the coming weeks. the situation is unique. we are in the aftermath of a crisis, the covid crisis. we are in the middle of the green transition and we have a war at our borders. so only our unity and working together, i think, can give europe the strength to face this unique situation.
member of the commission. – madam president, i think that there is a large consensus that, in this exceptional situation, described by commissioner gentiloni just now, we need a strong semester. we need strong governance – economic, social – in the european union. we need, obviously, strong solidarity and we have managed, up to now, to show this strong solidarity. i think we have learned a lesson from the covid crisis that a strong economy can only be a resilient economy, an economy that adapts rapidly and that also creates the resources to respond to challenges. the big challenge we have now is certainly how we can stabilise the recovery. there will certainly be an impact on growth. there will be, or there might be, an impact on employment. some weeks ago, we noticed that it was about job shortages, qualified labour shortages. now, maybe, given the situation and given the increases in prices of energy and of food, we might again head for more difficulties on our labour markets. so we have to be ready to respond to that. therefore, the semester is an essential tool to have strong governance. this governance has to be economic, certainly, fiscal, yes, but also social. these are the two sides of the same coin if we want a resilient economy and a resilient society. it has been said that we now also need stability in our society. during the covid crisis, the most vulnerable paid a high price and we have to avoid the price of this terrible war being borne by the most vulnerable. first, on refugees, i think here there is a need for very, very strong and rapid solidarity. we do not know the numbers. it has been said that it’s about two million today and there might be seven, eight or more million people who have to be received and welcomed, and who have to get all the support they need, especially in those member states who are the ‘frontline’ member states. the commission yesterday adopted a package, as a first step, with the asylum, migration and integration fund, of eur 400 million, and with react-eu, which can make available about eur 10 billion which, in a very flexible way, can be devoted to taking care of the people arriving. we have a proposal on a new system, which is similar to the coronavirus response investment initiative (crii) system, and which we call ‘cohesion’s action for refugees in europe’ (care), which also allows member states to take funds from the cohesion fund to allocate to the reception of refugees. this is a duty, and there is a particular duty, because you have, mr geuking, spoken – rightly so, by the way – on children. there are, among the refugees, hundreds of thousands of children who have lost everything. and there’s a duty now to take care of these children, as it is a duty, by the way, to take care of all children. i fully agree with you. therefore, in a few days, we will have the national plans on the implementation of the child guarantee and we also have to include in this child guarantee the children of refugees. it is not conceivable that these children have no education, that they will be nowhere, that they will be the lost ukrainian generation, which is, by the way, the aim of the dictator in moscow. therefore, we have a strong responsibility to give them – again, as for all children – the right support, the right education, the right care. yes, this war is a challenge for poverty. in the european union, we still have a high degree of poverty. more than 96 million people are at risk of poverty. we have taken an important commitment by reducing it by at least 15 million, including at least 5 million children, and it cannot be that the war will increase poverty in europe. this is a challenge. we have to find the right responses, the right resources, the right policies and the right investments in our economies, but also in our social systems.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your comments. as many of you have mentioned, there is no denying that russia's aggression against ukraine will have an impact on the economic prospects within the european union. it is too early to have a clear idea of the potential economic implications of this aggression and crisis. but it is already clear that the far-reaching financial and economic sanctions adopted by the european union against russia will also have an impact on the economic context of the member states. the defence of peace, stability and international law, as well as dignity, freedom and democracy, is priceless. the unity of european countries and the strength of our european economy will allow us to limit the impact of the crisis. we will take appropriate measures to limit the impact on citizens and businesses. the economic consequences of the geopolitical crisis, particularly in the energy sector, will only accelerate the agenda launched in recent months to strengthen our economic independence and ensure sustainable and resilient growth. that is why, in a few days' time, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, at an informal meeting of the heads of state and government of the european union in versailles, the leaders will focus on the economic resilience of the european union to the challenges currently facing it, in the wake of the pandemic, but also in the current changing geopolitical situation. let me assure you once again that the french presidency is paying close attention to the european semester process. today you have raised important points and your ideas will make a valuable contribution to the ministerial discussions which are ongoing in the council. your remarks are multi-faceted, because the challenges we face are many. we must never forget that it is important to reach as many citizens as possible in order to increase national ownership. i welcome the initiatives taken in this regard, such as increased dialogue in the capitals and consultation with stakeholders, civil society and social partners. today's debate has shown that, despite some differences, there is a broad base of common ground on which to build. i therefore have confidence in our continued cooperation to work together on appropriate solutions to meet the challenges ahead.
in writing. – the yearly debate around the european semester offers us the opportunity to reinforce our call to make economic growth and sustainability go hand in hand in the process of coordinating member states’ economic policies. while european countries should have enough room for manoeuvre to address their specific challenges, we should not overlook the potential of public investments to contribute to a more sustainable and social europe, which strives for the wellbeing of its citizens. this is the reason why i welcome the staunch commitment of my political group – the s&d – to include environmental and social aspects in the european semester. we should remember that we can achieve high results if we pay heed to all the actors responsible for the sustainable economic growth of our union. from workers and their rights to small and medium businesses that are an essential element of our social fabric and need to be further supported in the environmental and digital transition, also through a reduction of the administrative burden their suffer from, an inclusive growth will be possible only if we manage to foster a truly effective social dialogue.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there have been fifty interesting speeches to which i obviously cannot respond one by one. but let me draw some conclusions or some additional considerations to those you have made. the summit could not be expected to produce any major agreements. the proof is that no attempt was even made to draw up a joint communiqué of the summit, which is an atypical fact: there has been no joint communiqué of the summit. but despite everything, and despite many of your critical considerations, i think that, in the end, it will have been useful. firstly, because it will have enabled us, the european union, to send strong messages about what we are asking for, what we are rejecting, and also because it will have served to position the european union as a major player in the ukraine crisis. china came to the summit with the intention of saying "we can continue to work on the bilateral level; let's not be distracted by other facts outside this relationship". and the european union has made it clear to him that this bilateral relationship cannot be normalized in the investment and trade aspects without other issues being resolved as well. china's approach to this summit, after all, reflects a calculation and a world view that is very much its own. the calculation was surely to assume that for us europeans, the economic interests of china as a large market were sufficient so that we would not jeopardize those economic advantages for other considerations. and that's where they're wrong: if this was their calculation, they're wrong. on the other hand, there is a worldview, that of a great imperial power, which thinks that by force of circumstances it will present itself to the world as the defender of a general interest different from that represented by the west. it is, after all, a classic calculation of the great powers and china has the historical heritage of a great power. we have made it clear to him that the war in ukraine is not a return to the cold war, that it is a characteristic example of aggression against a sovereign state and that china must respect the integrity of the borders, not in an abstract and generalized way, but precisely and concretely in the case of the violation of the sovereignty and the borders of ukraine. the conflict in ukraine is not a peripheral problem, but a determining one for our security, and it would therefore be unthinkable that this conflict should not have an impact on europe's relations with the rest of the world, including china. so we made it clear that we expect china not to try to circumvent sanctions or to provide military assistance to russia, to which we got a very specific response from the chinese prime minister, who assured us that china had no intention of providing military assistance to russia. china will not be against russia, it has not wanted to be and will maintain its position, and will not make its help visible, if it gives it. but he will make sure that this crisis does not turn out to the advantage of the united states, which is, after all, the country he considers his greatest rival. that is why i believe that this summit has been useful, because it has clarified the positions of both sides. i think there is one aspect to which i have referred before, and which is worth stressing: i think that in this crisis china also has its red lines and the red lines would be the use by moscow of weapons of mass destruction. i made this clear to the chinese minister in our talks before the summit. and i should point out that in the communiqué published by the chinese foreign ministry they made a specific reference to this european demand in this respect. i think it is essential that we maintain this potential tension between moscow and beijing with regard to a boundary that must not be crossed. this issue should be the subject of a draft resolution in the united nations, and i believe that keeping it in mind in our relations with china can help to avoid this. finally, we must continue to engage with china, whether we like it or not; we must continue to do so, taking into account what our priorities are and what our limits are. we know the limits of this exercise. we know that the issues of food security, climate change and the use of weapons of mass destruction are axes around which we can try to get china to commit to resolving this conflict, knowing, as i said, that there are very clear limits for china and for us. thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for this interesting debate.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr domènec ruiz devesa, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the implementation of measures in the field of citizenship education (2021/2008 (ini)) (a9-0060/2022). i would remind you that you are free to choose your seat in the chamber, except for the first two rows reserved for group leaders. you will then be able to make requests relating to the free microphone procedure and the blue card issues using the voting machine as soon as you have inserted your voting card into it. i would also like to remind you that the plenary will continue to be required to speak from the centre stand, except in cases where the speech is related to the free microphone, the blue card issue and non-compliance with the rules of procedure.
member of the commission. – mr president, i thank mr ruiz devesa and all the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this important report. europe needs active citizens. we need people who feel responsible for their community, for their region, for their country and their union because that is what active citizenship means. it is not just staying informed, intellectually engaged with our surroundings, it is to stay emotionally engaged with the people around us and with those we love. our common political responsibility is precisely to ensure that this virtuous attitude, this empathy, is fostered from an early age, and that it is cultivated through education throughout our lives. part of it requires understanding our political systems in our member states and in europe as a whole. but we also need to focus on building this responsibility, this care and the common values that underpin them. this is at the heart of civic education and of a strong democracy. that’s why the commission and the european parliament have been working to open up the jean monnet actions so that younger europeans can also benefit from it. we want pupils to learn their rights, and to learn about the institutions in their countries and in europe and how they can have an impact in the decisions affecting their lives. this is also a question of inclusion. the citizens that usually lack more information about how to pursue their political goals are often from disadvantaged backgrounds. in fact, this is equally about a more inclusive erasmus+ programme and a more inclusive europe. overall, the new jean monnet for schools will do three things. first, it will support teacher education. we want to help teacher training institutions to develop new programmes and modules on eu matters. second, we know we are breaking new ground, so peer learning is all the more important. this is why jean monnet for schools will support exchanging good practices on citizenship and education, funding networks of schools and vet providers engaged in teaching europe in the classroom. third, jean monnet will support the new learning eu initiatives. the first school was finalised just recently. soon, schools and vet providers across the eu will benefit from concrete funding to develop new ways of teaching everything eu—related. these are targeted initiatives and they show how seriously we take this subject. still, there are many other initiatives taken by the european commission and all the other eu institutions to support teachers and schools to provide a sound european citizenship education. there is the eu learning corner on the eu website, the school education gateway, and the european parliament’s ambassador school programme, all great avenues for learning. i can only encourage all teachers and education professionals to make use of these teaching resources. i ask you, honourable members, to help us spread the word. active citizens are the basis of our european social model and they will have our support. so thank you, mr ruiz devesa, for your dedication and for your critical insight, along with your ideas proposed in this report. the commission will carefully assess all your points, and i look forward to working with you and your colleagues on this important issue.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague, domènec ruiz devesa, for his excellent work that he has done on this very important report that we are discussing today. first of all, let me stress that education is a fundamental right and all european citizens are entitled to one. education is a driver to social, to economic, to cultural inclusion. and it is essential for personal and professional fulfilment. quality education and, in particular, citizenship education, training and skills must therefore be accessible and affordable to all. however, despite the progress made, there is an implementation gap between the political consensus at european level on the need to advance citizenship, education and the teaching of common european values and the lack of concrete objectives, lack of targets, lack of benchmarks and lack of actions on the ground. this should be urgently addressed at eu level, and the eu should increase its competence in the field of european education citizenship. moreover, eu member states must ensure that all children, all young people have equal access to high quality education, and citizenship education in particular, in order to provide them with the knowledge, with the skills that they require to make informed choices about their citizenship. citizenship planning should be at the heart of every school policy and practice. we want the voices of young people to be heard, and the young people must be given all the opportunities that they deserve. it is vital that we listen to and engage with younger citizens and involve them in democracy. the children of today will be the adults of tomorrow – today’s leaders and activists.
madam president, i would like to thank and congratulate commissioner thierry breton on the initiative and congratulate and thank mrs angelika niebler and parliament's negotiating team for the excellent outcome and successful conclusion of these negotiations. i had the honour, as itre president, of leading some of these trilogues and the final agreement we are voting on today is extremely valuable and is a key step in the european data strategy. the new data sharing rules will lay the foundations for fair data exchange to promote a fair and efficient data economy in europe that people and businesses can trust, marking the first step towards a european data union. we needed a clear legislative framework to harness some of the potential of sharing more data, while protecting and respecting fundamental values. a large proportion of data was not used in the european union and this new framework also introduces the concept of intermediary services, where companies will have to comply with a set of neutrality obligations, so that misuse or breaches of confidentiality obligations are not possible. last but not least, the use and re-use of data will also be able to have significant value in terms of creating new technologies, new business models and social innovation, which have the potential to provide answers to the major societal issues we face, such as climate change, public health, and can, however, drive the european union's trajectory towards digital sovereignty.
madam president, over the last few years, digital technologies have changed the way we work, the way we fight disease, the way we use public services. data is at the core of this transformation. the data governance act is europe’s chance to deliver on the promise of data-driven innovation and to create a single european data space in which data flows without barriers. how do we can deliver on this promise? by ensuring that data sharing is rooted in european values and the highest level of data security and privacy. the ultimate political goal of this act must be to empower individuals and to respond to their repeated calls to have more control over the use and sharing of personal data. europe needs to continue building a data governance framework that promotes innovation, celebrates diversity, and upholds social justice.
madam president, data is one of the most valuable commodities of our time, with wide-ranging applications from the environment to health, from transport to tourism. nevertheless, europe did not have a clear framework to enable the use of such a crucial element in the digital society. harmonisation of data management in the european union, facilitating interoperability across all sectors, is crucial. the data governance act is therefore one of the first concrete steps to be backed up with the core facts in the digital sector. all parties concerned must be involved in this process with special attention to small and medium-sized businesses. i am very confident that this law will make life easier for small and new businesses who want to exploit their full potential in the field of data, even under more favourable conditions. now, we must continue to work to make the digital decade more inclusive, also to create a mind-blowing environment where data is used to address the world's most pressing challenges today.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you very much for this debate on the data governance act: its adoption is a major achievement. i really thank parliament for its cooperation and for ensuring rapid progress on this key issue. thank you, dear angelika, for this absolutely remarkable work, which was carried out in a time which i would like to stress has been reduced, and is very important in relation to the needs and ambitions we have on this text. it's important for businesses, it's important for individuals. the regulation will facilitate the sharing of data, as has been said, across the european union, between all sectors, in order to create wealth, of course, for everyone, for society, for individuals, in order to increase control, also, and the trust of citizens and businesses in their data. it will also offer a european model, an alternative to the data processing practices of the big technology platforms, and we will now focus our efforts on the next one, that is the proposal for the data act, which the commission presented in february, and which i said earlier, and whose objective is really to unlock industrial data, if i may put it that way. at the heart of the data law is, of course, the data generated by connected products. we are trying to answer the question: who will be able to access and exploit this famous data, generated by the use and by the functioning of the product itself? the supplier of the product, or the user, the end customer? the data law gives users, consumers and businesses the opportunity to choose what data they want to access themselves and what data they agree to share. this will of course facilitate competition, but also - and above all - innovation, and mainly in the downstream markets. with the data act, we are putting european businesses and citizens back at the heart of the system - in control of their own data. we propose to protect smes against abusive contractual provisions, particularly in contracts for the exchange of data - abuses of this kind have been seen far too often by the big platforms. we are also creating a framework for access to business data for public interest purposes in exceptional situations, such as in the event of a public emergency. we also ensure that our european industrial data is not subject to unlawful access by a third country government. this is a system that the legislator has agreed to, moreover, in the data governance act. it is a key element of our digital sovereignty. this new framework will generate as much as €270 billion for european gdp by 2028, according to experts. with this proposal, i think we can also say that we are the world's pioneers. you can of course count on me to work with you and in particular with the rapporteur, mrs pilar del castillo, and of course all the fictitious rapporteurs.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to thank all those who took part in the debate today. and i also want to take my two minutes to say thank you. i'm not sure i'm going to be able to do it. thank you very much for everything you've done and for presenting this act. and then i would like to thank my colleagues the shadow rapporteurs once again. it's been a pleasure working with you on this case. i would also like to thank the members of the committees that have been consulting me. there has also been a lot of input which has been very helpful for this dossier. i would like to thank all those who have spoken today in the plenary. i would also like to thank our chairman of the itre committee, mr cristian-silviu buşoi, who managed the last round of negotiations in such a way that we reached a late-night conclusion. it is important for me to emphasize once again that this has been raised by some colleagues: this data governance law is a piece of a big puzzle that we're working on right now. data law, ai law, all this is coming, it's in the consultation. i think it was important to find the right balance between on the one hand making data usable, but on the other hand also keeping data protection high. i was very grateful for this, and also for the suggestions of my colleagues sergey lagodinsky, damian boeselager and many others who have repeatedly stressed this. i think we really have a chance to make a schengen for data. that has also been raised. and i can only say that if we continue along this path, i hope that we will be able to provide a framework that will enable us to say in europe in a few years' time: we have strengthened our smes, our small and medium-sized enterprises, we have strengthened our society, we have ensured that the data we have on 440 million citizens here, which is a huge asset, is also used here in the european union, in accordance with our ideas, our rules, our european spirit. and i look forward to it. i am grateful for all the help you have given me and i hope that you will continue to work together in this house. if we stand together, we are also very strong as a european parliament.
in writing. data is crucial for economic growth, sustainable development and innovation in europe. the covid-19 pandemic has further highlighted the role and need for high-quality data sharing. unlocking the socio-economic potential of data while protecting european rights and values will therefore open up new opportunities through the digital governance act. i believe that a balanced compromise has been negotiated on the re-use of data held by public entities. i am pleased that parliament has proposed greater facilities for small and mediumsized enterprises and to enable them to obtain more favourable contracts. efficiency, transparency and the development of rules that work in practice are essential in the context of the data-driven economy. so we have enormous opportunities and potential in europe - it's time to harness them in the global technology race.
in writing. over the past decade, digital technologies have transformed the economy and society, affecting all sectors of activity and daily life. data became the basis of this transformation. data-driven innovation will therefore bring huge benefits to citizens and the economy in the future. in accordance with the fair data principles, the use of common european data spaces should be data-recoverable, accessible, interoperable and reusable, while ensuring a high level of cybersecurity. in a data economy on a level playing field, firms compete on the quality of services rather than the quantity of data they manage. the definition, creation and maintenance of a level playing field in the data economy requires sound governance, with the representation and involvement of the relevant stakeholders in the single european data space. this is a necessary condition to be met. in setting up a new legal framework in this area, it should be borne in mind that this regulation should not be in breach of union law. moreover, the right of member states to access and use data for the purposes of international cooperation in the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties and international cooperation in that context should not be affected. this regulation should in no way affect the competence of the member states in the fields of public security, defence and national security.
author. – madam president, the european parliament welcomes the commission communication on a global approach to research and innovation: europe’s strategy for international cooperation in a changing world. we recognise that this strategy enables the union to take a leading role in supporting international research, while facilitating global responses to global challenges. we also recognise here today that science and innovation are part of the same system and that global cooperation needs to account for all aspects of the knowledge value chain. furthermore, we should work to align our global approach to research with the union’s industrial strategy and the european green deal. research and innovation are drivers for prosperity and economic and sustainable growth. while international cooperation in research and innovation was already taking place in a transformed global landscape underlined by geopolitical tensions, at the time of negotiating this oral question and motion for a resolution, the invasion of ukraine by the russian federation had not yet taken place. i am well aware that we are presenting this oral question and later on voting on a motion for a resolution during a very challenging point in time. recent events in ukraine have amplified these geopolitical tensions further. we strongly condemn the russian aggression and stress that a stronger research and innovation cooperation with ukraine should be established, while stopping relations with the russian federation and its entities. it is all the more important to ensure that association agreements to horizon europe that are signed with non-eu countries and territories should be with those entities that are committed to a rules—based open market economy backed by properly functioning democratic institutions and guaranteeing respect for human rights, while upholding appropriate standards of intellectual property rights. the preservation of academic freedom and the autonomy of institutions in europe and third countries has become more important than ever in the past and, of course, it is extremely important for good cooperation in research and innovation. the proposed strategy aims to promote rules based on multilateralism, reciprocal openness and shared fundamental values with third countries in order to deliver innovative solutions to green, digital, health and innovation challenges. as previously mentioned, it is essential that these partnerships are based on a level playing field and respect for academic freedom, while conforming to human rights and international law. in view of the above, we invite the commission kindly to answer the following questions. does the commission recognise that academic freedom and institutional autonomy are under pressure both within the eu and globally? does the commission agree that academic freedom and institutional autonomy must be fully respected for the eu to credibly advocate for these principles worldwide? will the commission issue a proposal for the legal protection of academic freedom in the european union? how will the commission address academic freedom in new association agreements and promote respect for academic freedom in countries already associated to horizon europe? does the commission agree that options should be explored to set up a european fellowship programme for researchers at risk? and, finally, how will the commission ensure reciprocity and a level playing field to accelerate sustainable and inclusive development and the transition to resilient knowledge—based societies and economies in low and middle income countries? thank you so much, colleagues. i am looking forward to the debate today and i would of course like to thank the european commission and commissioner mariya gabriel once again for the very good cooperation in the field of research and innovation.
member of the commission. madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, first of all, thank you very much for giving us the opportunity to discuss such important issues, ranging from the global approach to research and innovation to academic freedom and researchers at risk. but let me also start with russia's military aggression against ukraine, which we strongly condemn. we condemn in the strongest terms the murders and violence against ukrainian civilians that have been discovered in areas recently left by russian troops. this military aggression also represents a serious threat to security and stability in europe and the world. it is an attack on the basic values of freedom, democracy and self-determination, which are the basis of cultural expression, freedom and academic and scientific cooperation. this is why the european commission has acted by cutting scientific links with russia. first, the commission is no longer engaging in scientific and innovation cooperation projects with russian entities on the horizon europe programme, with the exception of humanitarian aid, for example. secondly, for existing contracts under horizon 2020 and euratom, all payments were suspended. finally, yesterday we proposed to the member states to go further by terminating ongoing projects with russian public entities. the same measures apply to belarusian participations. at the same time, we are implementing concrete measures to support the ukrainian scientific community. although ukraine's association with horizon europe and euratom is not yet effective, the country has been added to the list of countries eligible for horizon europe grants. in addition, on 22 march, the european commission launched a portal dedicated to the ukraine crisis, the 'european research area for ukraine', to inform researchers from ukraine about actions they can benefit from at european and member state level. another initiative is the european research council, which is asking its beneficiaries to offer temporary jobs for refugee scientists and research staff. three hundred and sixty vacancies have already been identified, and we encourage all horizon europe beneficiaries to do the same. these are just a few examples, and i would also like to stress that we are working on developing other support measures in the longer term, and i will keep parliament informed. academic freedom and institutional autonomy are enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. they are also a key priority of the new european strategy for universities. in this context, it is essential to support research and innovation organisations to guarantee these values. a very concrete example: action 6 of the european research area policy agenda provides for deepening the european research area by protecting academic freedom in europe. in addition, in order to help protect eu researchers from undue influence from foreign actors and to preserve the openness of eu programmes, the commission published guidelines in january to mitigate foreign interference in research and innovation. as regards international cooperation, i would first like to recall that our overall approach to research and innovation is based on these common values. while we maintain the overall openness and the ascendant character of horizon europe, this openness is based on reciprocity, fair conditions of competition and respect for fundamental values and rights. the french presidency's conference in marseille in march was an opportunity to agree on the values to be upheld in our international action, and it was in this context that we started preparing a multilateral dialogue with partner third countries, to make these principles the basis of our cooperation. in addition, all horizon europe association agreements promote respect for academic freedom, scientific research, which are explicitly mentioned in the preamble of the association agreements by default. i would remind you that 12 countries are currently associated with the framework programme. in addition, six countries have the status of candidate countries for association, and i confirm that exploratory discussions are taking place with three newcomers to the association. for low- and middle-income countries, the european union will build on research and innovation cooperation to support them in their transition towards resilient, inclusive, knowledge-based societies and economies. in most cases, the european union will finance participation in horizon europe actions, thus supporting the development of their research and innovation capacity. this is done in synergy with the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument. in addition, the commission will cooperate with these countries in multilateral partnerships to continue to tackle global challenges such as climate change, environmental degradation, resource depletion and infectious diseases together. in conclusion, i would like to recall that the guiding principle of our overall approach to research and innovation is as open as possible, as closed as necessary. and we will continue to follow this approach. i am now prepared to respond to your comments and questions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear commissioner, colleagues, i think we all welcome the dedication of the commissioner for global research cooperation, in particular, her realistic approach to it. and we should all understand, if we have two strengths in europe’s it’s the economy and its innovation, our innovation capacity, and that is an issue we have to work on and we have to use for our global ambitions. but i would like to address two issues in this context. first of all, academic freedom. in the communications, you say that to promote academic freedom is our issue globally. however, how can we promote our academic global freedom globally if the eu is not capable of protecting it at home? europe does not have the legal means to protect academic freedom effectively. the european court had to rely on wto regulations to declare hungary’s law against the central european university illegal. that’s not enough. if we take academic freedom serious, we need to do more. however, our services seem to be under the impression that european legal protection is impossible. however, i think that if we want to keep our plausibility in our international agenda, we have to have more competences on that issue. and the reason that we wouldn’t have competences under education is just an excuse clause. however, academic freedom is also a research policy issue, and there we can act. so my question is, would you, if the parliament would bring forward a proposal to protect academic freedom in europe, support it by tabling or taking up a legislative proposal during your term in office? the second issue, just briefly, is the question of control. i mean, the science collaboration, particularly the horizon association, is deeply political and we have seen this in relation to the uk and swiss participation of horizon. and my question is what and how do you and the council react to our ambitions and pleas that parliament be more integrated in these negotiations? our request has been met with silence and rejection so far and in the resolution tabled in this debate we again invite the commission and the council to table to find the right way forward. my second question is thus, will you accept our invitation?
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the discussion on the european global approach to research and innovation comes during a historical period where the enhancement of cooperation in the scientific field can contribute to making the power of reason and knowledge prevail over weapons. a strong europe that is a point of reference on research and innovation does not, however, happen overnight. it requires a long-term vision that aims not only to achieve strategic autonomy, which is very much urgent, but is also based on the assumption that global societal challenges such as climate change and health emergencies have no borders. building bridges with the scientific communities of our partners and an extensive multilateral cooperation grounded in reciprocity are key to make our european r and i system as open as possible, as closed as necessary, and to support our values from academic freedom to gender equality. this is the reason why i urge the european commission to develop an ambitious science diplomacy agenda that promotes european soft power of research and innovation.
every day we are creating mountains of waste - mountains of washing machines, computers, tumble dryers. it has become all too common for these products to break, by chance, shortly after the end of the guarantee and become beyond repair. the reality is that it is easier for producers to put new products on the market rather than repairing these products. this is putting greater burdens on consumers and a greater burden on our environment due to the production of waste. consumer choices are crucial to break this vicious circle. it is our responsibility to create a sustainable single market that provides for the right to repair. the possibility of repair must be realistic and financially sustainable in order to allow consumers to use the products for a longer period. we need to give consumers all the necessary tools to make the best choices and we can do this by cutting down on the use of practices that shorten the life of products, making it mandatory to provide information on the durability and repair of products and providing financial incentives to make product repairs.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for sharing your insights with me this afternoon. i had no doubt that our concern about the mental health of our population is very much a shared one. i must say we are very encouraged by the parliament’s ongoing strong support for european mental health action. i have heard the calls for a new strategy. the commission’s new healthier together eu non—communicable diseases initiative will very much provide a hands—on approach to help member states reduce the burden of non-communicable diseases. mental health and neurological disorders form one of the five thematic strands in healthier together, which will also address health inequalities and encourage integrated approaches. member states, health authorities, stakeholders, international organisations and commission departments are working together on a plan of action to which we would certainly welcome further input from all of you in this house. underpinning the plan, we will have a mapping exercise of legal frameworks, initiatives and financial instruments from commission departments to make sure that we work across sectors as efficiently as possible and maximise opportunities. in this place, i would like to also share something from my portfolio and my preparedness to cooperate on this plan, because in my portfolio i deal a lot of with the impact of social media and the internet on our society. we are still missing sufficient research on how strong and how negative this impact is on the young generation and on children, but we already see from different surveys that there is a loss of social contacts, there is an isolation, and there is also the fact that, at this moment, reality is still better than what we see in the digital mirror. all this together has a negative impact on young people and on children, especially in the situation when the father is instagram and the mother is tiktok. i think that there is a space to do something, to raise awareness, to campaign, to influence society, parents and schools because we cannot organise the free time of children, but we can influence those who can do that. we should also think about how to use the future digital tax because the tax should be used for reparation of the things which have been damaged, also by means of social media. this is just my humble contribution, which i want to come with when we work together in the commission on this plan. honourable members, i know that parliament is finalising a report on this issue and my colleague, commissioner kyriakides, and i very much look forward to reading it and to pursuing our fruitful cooperation with you on this most important issue of mental health that concerns us all because mental health really matters.
i would like to thank you very much, commissioner jourová. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – each passing year, mental disorders affect an increasing number of europeans, with an exacerbation due to the covid pandemic. while mental health issues represent a reason of concern for patients and their families, the situation they experience everyday is very often still surrounded by stigma. we must urgently address this and enable a new paradigm: nobody should feel ashamed for being proactive about their mental health. encouraging people to speak openly about their condition, supporting them to seek professional help, promoting a culture of self-care: there are many ways to improve the quality of life of mental health patients. we cannot wait any longer to address this reality effectively. i urge the european commission to do more. we need specific, measurable initiatives. a stronger focus on well-being instead of simply measuring the success of people and countries through economic indicators can also contribute to resetting priorities, including in policy-making. furthermore, i reiterate the call for a european year on mental health. we will only accomplish our mission when people will start taking care of their mental health unashamedly just as much as they do for their physical one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a technological revolution is under way. the development of artificial intelligence will transform our lives in ways that most men and women can hardly imagine. the european union must encourage this new expression of human creativity, as it holds great promise for economic progress. it is time, because in the face of competition from the united states and china, we europeans are already far behind. if we do not want to become a digital colony of outside powers, we must support european research, encourage the emergence of start-ups in our member states and avoid market concentration by ensuring smes' access to the ai economy. i thank the rapporteur, mr axel voss, for having taken care to recall these priorities. of course, artificial intelligence is not without its dangers. in the hands of authoritarian regimes, it can lead to mass surveillance and severe restrictions on freedoms, of which the questionable generalization of the health pass gave us a first glimpse. therefore, its use must be regulated in a way that respects human rights, including the health rights of patients. as the author of the report of 20 january 2021 on the use of artificial intelligence in the military and civil spheres, i would also like to reaffirm the need to regulate, under the auspices of the un, the use of lethal autonomous weapons systems, more commonly known as killer robots. the report by mr voss has the merit of recalling this point. the identity and democracy group particularly emphasizes the risks of censorship and the denial of pluralism that this technology could promote. in no case should the use of artificial intelligence, in particular to filter online content, impede freedom of expression, in particular freedom of political expression. as a famous french revolutionary once said: "the storms of political discussion are only the birth pangs of freedom". a final danger is the temptation to use artificial intelligence to aggravate the social segregation experienced by rural dwellers in several member states, such as france, to the benefit of metropolitan dwellers. to tackle this, we will have to demand the fair deployment of 5g in all our territories: this is a fundamental challenge, because if we succeed, we will even be able, thanks to this democratization of access to artificial intelligence, to reduce inequalities and make this technology an instrument of social progress.
mr president, i want to thank axel voss and the chair of the committee for bringing us to this point. we look forward to dealing with the regulation on artificial intelligence. ‘what is it and what is it about’ is a topic that has so many answers and so many approaches, but it does have so many potential benefits for our societies, for our economy and for development. climate can be addressed there, and how we can help to meet our green targets and green ambitions, how to make more efficient decisions based on high—quality inputs. in agriculture, again, efficient approaches measuring inputs to maximise outputs, improving levels and quality of food production. in health we have seen the benefits in the development of the covid-19 vaccine, and also in appropriate care and treatments for patients. so we’ve seen much activity in areas such as the dsa and the dma – and thanks to the commissioner for leadership in that area – and they regulate current practices. now we move to the opportunity to shape ai and its future so we can use it in the way that we want, which is trustworthy, if we are to gain citizens’ confidence. we need human oversight with transparency and strong regulatory bodies. we need clear standards for a human—centred approach to ai that is based on our core european ethical standards. we don’t want to stop ai, we want to use it and harnesses it for its enormous potential. investment from public to encourage private sector in artificial intelligence needs to be encouraged. we need to send a message that europe is a place to invest, to innovate and to know that you can do so with legal certainty, to know that there is a regulation in place in europe that applies across the union. the proposed ai regulation will put europe at the forefront internationally in the area of artificial intelligence. we’d be the first to regulate it and other nations will follow. so we have done so with our leadership before and we can now do it again. so the proposed legislation would be future—proofed, which i think is really important, with the ability to react so that we’re not always coming from behind, but we are prepared to deal with this very important technology as it evolves.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, getting artificial intelligence right is one of the key questions for the future – also for the european union. this technology will shape the way value is created in our economy and who wields the power in our societies. we cannot look away from this development and just let it happen. that became clear from our work. we need to sail not drift in technological development. the work of the aida committee was a european push to get artificial intelligence right. i had the honour to serve as the first vice—chair, and i thank the chair and the rapporteurs for this work. i think we worked hard and i am proud of the results. for 18 months, aida organised 12 public hearings on different aspects of ai, from tackling the bias of the data to the role of ai in achieving the green deal objectives. we debated, different political groups worked together to bring the whole spectrum of ai—based values on the table. like we condemned ai surveillance in the working place and are concerned that is happening in schools also. in the end, we delivered. the report we are voting on today is a good report that takes steps towards the european approach to ai. we consider, for example, that the imbalance in powers might have negative effects for democracies. if there’s one conclusion i can draw from this work, it is that ai can only be a tool, not an end itself. we should not focus on the specific technologies, but we should focus on what kind of societies we want to see. it is crucial that we see ai as a stepping stone towards inclusive, socially responsible and environmentally sustainable societies. this requires a political effort in directing technological developments towards these goals and help investing in them. i see the report as a sign of europe taking an active role in the global development of ai. the current ai act gives the world’s first legal framework for the development of ai, and parliament has now shown a sign, a strong signal where we want to go. in terms of ai, europe will no longer be a bystander. europe will no longer be a battleground. in the future, the eu will be an ecosystem of excellence, trust and purpose that delivers ai to take us to the future we want.
mr. chairman, my good colleagues! the special parliamentary committee set up last year to analyse and make proposals on artificial intelligence has today completed its work. i appreciate the initiative taken by parliament in setting up the special committee. the development of the process and the technology that results from its use is extremely rapid and it is clear that there are many important issues related to the process, which were also addressed in this report. in my view, the following important factors need to be considered in relation to the implementation and regulation of the use of artificial intelligence in the future. we also need a balanced approach to legislation and we need to avoid over-regulation that stifles innovation and the uptake of artificial intelligence in the field of security and defence. over-regulation limits our ability to develop the technology of artificial intelligence, especially given the lack of restraints on our competitors. attention should certainly be paid to close transatlantic cooperation in the field of artificial aids. the united states is the european union's most serious partner in this area. we need to avoid regulations that interfere with our cooperation. i am convinced that the european commission must devote more resources to the field of artificial intelligence. any technological development requires significant investment. in my view, the development phase and disruptive technologies in general, including artificial intelligence, could become a common area of work for the european union and nato. nato is developing a strategy for defence-related artificial intelligence. i would expect the european union to finance the implementation of the field of protection of artificial objects in particular through the defence fund and other appropriate financial instruments. i would like to thank my colleagues on the special committee on artificial intelligence. and i very much hope that the commission's conclusions and the issues i have highlighted will continue to receive sufficient attention in the european union in the future. in the area of manufacturing, we must certainly keep up with our competitors and avoid falling behind - this is a matter of our competitiveness.
madam president, commissioner, we are human beings and not just numbers. although artificial intelligence has created a number of opportunities, increased capital, productivity, innovation, sustainable development, created a number of new jobs, we should not ignore a number of difficulties. ethical difficulties, legal difficulties, difficulties even in the world of work, in the rights of our workers. digital technologies are affecting the quality of life of our workers and creating imbalances. a disadvantage that is affecting the most vulnerable workers. ai and digital technologies have, in particular, reorganised the future of our world of work and are also threatening a number of particular sectors of work, due to outsourcing, due also to a number of other realities. they have also created a number of new tools to spy on our workers, to spy on their personal lives, their use of a number of digital platforms, and this is also creating different realities. realities also related to abusive practices that often take place without workers' knowledge; this is without any moral standard, without any ethical standard. companies and these digital tools are also controlling the way workers work and this is also happening at european level. and so it is important, it is fundamental to see that ai is used in a way that ultimately is also about our fundamental human rights, it is more human centric, and so i believe that this report is a step in the right direction to call for a legislative act at european level to control these realities that are also affecting our world of work. it is therefore important that these realities finally take their toll on the world of work, to see and ensure that we really have a work-life balance, and that other rights are also respected, among others, the right to disconnect. it is therefore important to act today rather than tomorrow and i believe this is a step in the right direction that should also lead to the ai act. thank you very much.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you all for putting this important point on the agenda. as we speak, cyber—warfare is going on in our neighbourhood. it has started weeks before the russian invasion and it continues. it is striking ukraine’s most critical infrastructure and networks with a double aim to further destabilise the country and demoralise its people. ukrainian websites have experienced a tenfold increase in attacks since the russian invasion and on the day of the invasion itself, a cyberattack against the viasat and ksat satellite network used by the ukrainian military and police caused disruption to thousands of customers that use these connectivity services. while, in the meantime, ukraine is being targeted by russian-aligned criminal ransomware gangs, which can only add to the volatility of the situation. we are doing our utmost, together with my colleagues, to support ukraine’s cyber—resilience. the commission and the european action external service have been coordinating with member states and the private sector with the provision of technical assistance, equipment, software and relevant services, as per the needs of the ukrainian government. let me tell you that the case of ukraine is not an isolated one. over the last months and the year, our member states have also been hit by waves of largescale cyberattacks targeting their most critical sectors from healthcare to telecom operators, to public administrations, to wind energy companies and health. this is, unfortunately, the new reality of today’s world. this is what we must face, ad i’m really pleased to have the opportunity to set out our work to rise to this challenge. shielding our critical infrastructure against both physical and digital threats is our top priority. and let me put something very clearly up front in front of this house. it is more urgent than ever to adopt the revised network information systems directive, the so—called nis2, together with our proposal for the renewed and modified critical entities resilience directive. these two proposals are two sides of the same coin. what is the point of putting all our efforts in protecting the networks of a nuclear power plant, if you can disrupt it by simply attacking its structures? i know that the negotiations on these two texts are progressing well, and i count on you to have them adopted as quickly as possible. they are needed now more than ever before. i also take today’s opportunity to make a very solemn plea for the scope of these proposals, to stay at the level of ambition that we envisaged with our original proposal of the commission. it would be greatly inconsistent if we take public administration out of the scope of these pieces of legislation, because public administration would need to have it to maintain high security standards. shielding our union against cyber—threats also requires shielding our single market. we need to make sure that the digital products in our single market are sufficiently resilient against cyber—threats. this is why president von der leyen announced in this house a few months ago a new cyber resilience act, which will be presented by the end of this year. we have put a lot of efforts into building eu preparedness. this has even inspired our like—minded partners on the other side of the atlantic to step up their own approach. but clearly the key question is will we, the european union, be able to react in the event of a large—scale cyberattack? let me share with you my conviction that, yes, we can. in the past years, we have set up a number of tools and mechanisms to ensure effective coordination, both at technical and operational levels. the so—called cybersecurity ‘blueprint’ sets out how to make the full use of existing cybersecurity entities to facilitate cooperation between member states and the eu institutions in responding to such incidents and crisis. we also have set up at technical level an eu network of national computer emergency response teams, the csirt network, which, together with our own institutional cert—eu network, perform a central role in ensuring the sharing of technical information on network incidents in line with a blueprint. early this year, this network was put in partial activation mode. we also have the cyber crisis liaison organisation network (cyclone), which brings together national cyber—agencies where the commission participates as an observer. as i was telling you a few minutes ago, the proposals aiming and revising the nis directive and the critical entities resilience directive could be also essential to present the commission as a full member of cyclone, in order to represent the overall eu interest. what we now need is to continue building precisely on this culture of sharing information and expertise between member states and across the cybersecurity constituencies, to bring together our best cybersecurity experts and response teams to work together and coordinate our action at operational level and, where necessary, help those that need it the most. and this is precisely the purpose that should serve the joint cyber unit which, together with my colleague, thierry breton, we have announced should be operationalised as soon as possible. any operation at eu level will also benefit from the additional firepower and brainpower that the expertise of our agencies bring. we are working closely with enisa, which now has years of experience in threat identification, and with europol’s ec3, which is also working closely to counter malicious activities on the ground. this is a true example of breaking the silos between the different strands of security to capitalise on all the knowledge and expertise available across the services and across europe. this is precisely what our concept of an eu security union means – one single roof for all security—related policy action to be aligned far beyond and across vertical fiefdoms and vertical constituencies. another element that is of relevance to this debate is, of course, the heightened hybrid threat that is linked to disinformation. we have been urging, together with our external action service colleagues, the main platform signatories of the code of practice, to implement swiftly the ukrainian—related sanctions and take further action to address the spread of war propaganda, lies and harmful disinformation related to the war. all online platforms swiftly moved to suspend the transmission of russia today and sputnik in the eu and to delist them from search engines. there are encouraging signs that the platforms have strengthened their monitoring and intervention tools to deprioritise disinformation content, remove the accounts of known disinformation purveyors, increase cooperation with fact checkers, and cut disinformation websites from advertising revenues. we shall keep monitoring progress in all these areas, and we will continue to push for more actions in our regular meetings with all major platforms. honourable members, let me conclude by saying that the invasion of ukraine has shown us a new side of war. from now on, war takes place not only on the battlefield but also in our information space, whether disinformation or cyberattack. these incidents have real life consequences for individual businesses, critical infrastructure, our society at large, and our democracy. malicious cyber—activities, whether driven by political or criminal motives, not only threaten our economies, but also our model of society – what we stand for, our way of life, our freedoms and our values. so now is the moment for a genuine step change in our collective response to these common threats. i am sure that you share with us the sense of urgency for greater efficiency and responsiveness of our mechanisms.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i believe cyberattacks are just another front in putin’s all-out attack against democracy and against democratic states. every government, every company, every individual stands on the frontline of that war, of putin’s war. i’m very proud that this parliament is currently working to deliver on the nis2 directive, which could offer a real opportunity for member states and industry to be able to collaborate. of course, businesses will need the resources and the scale to tackle those very complex and hybrid tricks. the same applies to institutions and to agencies that assist at both national but also european level. if cybercrime costed the world usd 1 trillion back in 2020 alone, well, i believe it’s only common sense to significantly make sure that we increase investment in our critical infrastructure and, most importantly, digital defence. we simply have to wargame the various scenarios together with the internet service providers, together with the telephone companies, to make sure we can repel potential attacks and make sure we can restore basic functions at an unprecedented speed. we also have to make sure we build greater resilience among our populations. and this we could do with more cyber and media literacy efforts. this item has to be very high on the agenda of the european council and during its next meeting in june. i am actually surprised that we do not see the council present here today. european leaders should stop shying away from topics related to tech and cyber – because the effects of a cyberattack can be instant, can be devastating, and they could be very far-reaching, knowing no borders. so this is why there is no time to waste for us to increase our resilience.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in the new digital world, we are facing new forms of aggression, taking the shape of hybrid and cyber warfare. we have witnessed destructive wiper attacks on hundreds of systems in the ukrainian government from it, energy, financial organisations, nuclear plants, telecommunications to broadcasting companies. during the conflict, malicious cyberattacks have been a prominent component of russian cyber operations, strongly correlated and sometimes directly timed with kinetic military operations, targeting services and institutions which are crucial for civilians, whether it is to steal data from nuclear plants or to cause chaotic disinformation in the environment, disrupting citizens’ access to reliable information and critical life services, shaking confidence in the country’s leadership. all these cyberattacks are sparking concerns of more significant consequences and catastrophic effects that could also affect and target directly our european union, our member states. every member state, every eu organisation, large or small, must be prepared to respond to these disruptive incidents. being prepared will ultimately protect civilians from attacks that can directly affect their lives and access to critical, important services.
mr president, i listened with interest to the commissioner's speech and i am very pleased that she is aware of the challenges facing these two sectors of our economy. it is clearly necessary to direct our tnt networks also towards ukraine itself, to strengthen our routes and, of course, cross-border connections within the concerned ring of regions around our external border with ukraine. at the same time, it is important to apply sanctions to airlines, railway companies from russia. and we certainly also need to support investment projects within our european investment bank. that tourism will continue to be affected by the lack of tourist inflow from russia, that's true after about two years. i think we have got used to it, but tourism is showing opportunities for new regions where we could also draw support from our cohesion policy. it's a new opportunity.
member of the commission. – mr president. thank you very much for this interesting debate and for your strong commitment to help our ukrainian friends and to mitigate the effects of the war for european citizens and for the transport and tourism businesses, and for your strong support for the tourists or the transport workers. in the context of helping ukraine, i would also like to remind you of the ongoing revision of the ten-t regulation. given the importance and need to improve connections between the eu and ukraine, we might also consider extending european transport corridors to ukraine as well as to moldova. this should be discussed in the context of the current ten-t revision. the aim is to further integrate ukraine into our transport network and help guide the reconstruction of the transport system after the war. the commission also seeks your cooperation in making quick progress on other legislative proposals already on the table, such as on sustainable aviation fuel and on fuel, maritime alternative fuels, infrastructure, single european sky and intelligent transport systems. they all will greatly improve the resilience of the eu transport sector. as you know, the fit 55 package is key to reducing our dependency on russian fossil fuels. president, honourable members, thank you once again for your support, for your contribution and for this opportunity to address you on this crucial issue.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 5 may 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – whilst i welcome the new sanctions imposed on russia in response to its invasion of ukraine, i strongly support the call being made by this resolution to adequately assist the transport and tourism industries, industries which were already hardly hit by the pandemic and are again being negatively impacted by the war in ukraine. to mention one example, air restrictions are expected to have a major impact on international flights and the tourism industry. the re-routing of flights above ukraine, russia, and belarus are affecting flight length, which in turn leads to higher fuel prices, affecting also employees’ working hours, and ultimately tourists. we definitely need further coordination at the european level to ensure the least possible impact on the already struggling industries, industries on which a lot of workers, families and european citizens depend. that is why i highlight the call for the establishment of a european crisis management mechanism for the eu tourism sector in order to respond adequately and swiftly to current crises and future shocks. building up our resilience is a must.
the next item is the oral questions to the council and the commission on the creation of the european education area by 2025 microcredentials, individual learning accounts and learning for a sustainable environment (o-000012/2022 - b9-0014/22) (o-000011/2022 - b9-0013/22) (2022/2568 ((rsp)). i would remind you that, with the exception of the first two rows, which are reserved for the group chairmen, there is free choice of seats. after you have inserted your voting cards into the voting machine, you can apply for spontaneous reports and blue cards through your voting machine. please carry your voting card with you at all times. the relevant instructions are available in the chamber. if you wish to speak spontaneously, i would ask you to do so now and not wait until the end of the debate. i would also like to point out that blue cards can also be held up for a short verbal message and that a follow-up question is permitted afterwards. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be dealt with from the central podium, with the exception of spontaneous speeches, blue cards and comments on the application of the rules of procedure. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank you for this debate in which i am speaking today, as you will have noticed, in place of my colleague, commissioner gabriel. to set up the european education area, the european commission has proposed a set of objectives and 40 different actions. they are well on their way to being implemented. for example, of the 13 proposals for council recommendations and other strategic actions on the european education area envisaged by the commission, we have already published seven, including the proposals for five recommendations. the council has already adopted three of these recommendations on the mobility of young volunteers across the union, on blended learning approaches for inclusive and quality primary and secondary education, and on building bridges for effective european cooperation in higher education. the proposals on learning for a sustainable environment and micro-certifications are expected to be adopted by the council in june. the european approach to micro-certifications will facilitate the recognition and validation of different learning experiences, including, where appropriate, informal learning. we need to involve more people in learning and training opportunities, effectively leaving no one behind. the proposal is currently under discussion in the council, including as regards reporting mechanisms. micro-certifications can facilitate access to education and training, and labour market entry or reintegration for a wider range of learners, including the most vulnerable and disadvantaged groups. the commission is working with member states to support and strengthen the development of key competences for education and training from an early age and throughout life. our tool, the common european framework of reference for key competences, identifies and defines key competences for employability, personal development and health, active and responsible citizenship and social inclusion. at union level, we also have a european framework which can serve as a basis for the development of curricula and learning activities that promote personal and social development and the acquisition of key competences. we are also supporting member states and will continue to do so by providing guidance and supporting cooperation with stakeholders, including european university alliances. finally, let me briefly mention the part of the european education area devoted to environmental sustainability. to help mainstream the ecological transition and sustainability in education and training, the commission adopted a proposal for a council recommendation on learning for a sustainable environment in january this year. the ecological transition can only take place if we succeed in changing the behaviour and skills of citizens. and with knowledge and skills in environmental sustainability, we can better protect europe's rich cultural heritage from the effects of climate change and make greener choices for new cultural buildings. other initiatives, outside the european education area, are also contributing to this cause. for example, the new european bauhaus initiative and the work of the expert group on building the resilience of cultural heritage to climate change. i thank you for your attention and will of course listen very carefully to all your speeches.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the right to quality and inclusive education, training and lifelong learning is the first principle in the pillar for social rights. in the aftermath of the covid pandemic, the eu reinforced its growth strategy, and its green and digital transition policies. but what about education? we need to move this to the top of the political agenda, because education is crucial to surviving and thriving in the changing world. the fixed skills or knowledge young people receive today is no longer enough. many of today’s children will work in jobs that do not even exist yet. they have to be prepared to adapt to change and turn challenges into opportunities. i welcome, therefore, the efforts to achieve the european education area. still, eu leaders need to be more ambitious and commit to have 2025 as a clear target date for completing the eea. we need micro—credentials, individual learning accountants and training for all adults, for all young people. continuous efforts are needed to recognise all qualifications and learning experiences across our borders, strengthen european higher education networks, and ensure a quality start for all our youngsters by putting an end to unpaid internships. let’s keep up the work and prepare ourselves for the future.
member of the commission. – mr president. dear members of parliament, thank you for all your questions and remarks. based on your remarks, it is clear that we all agree on the same goal: eliminating our dependence on russian energy. there are just certain differences in the vision of how we should get there. some of you point to the need to strengthen energy infrastructure. others argue that we need even higher targets for renewables and energy savings. and i heard also calls to increase the share of prosumers. i think we need to work on all these elements. this is what the repowereu is about: a comprehensive document addressing practically all of the points mentioned today. some of you mentioned that renewables are not the solution for the near future. and i want to, however, underline that this is not necessarily true for solar energy. the technology can be rolled out rapidly and it’s affordable. the costs have decreased by 82% over the last decade, and solar energy is now one of the cheapest energy sources in the eu. with our solar strategy, we are giving a new boost to the industry and sending the right signal to investors. we are triggering quick and massive pv deployment by the european solar rooftop initiative, making solar panels mandatory on roofs, at first in public and commercial buildings, and then in newly built residential homes. in terms of our preparedness for this winter, the commission is working on the risk preparedness plans. of course, in this context, unity and strong partnerships will go a long way. therefore, the commission is working very closely with member states to ensure that concluding bilateral solidarity agreements will be a priority. importantly, repowereu also proposes to develop a voluntary operational joint purchasing mechanism responsible for negotiating and contracting on behalf of participating member states. so i heard that many of you are concerned about the impact on our consumers, and these joint purchase activities can deliver more predictable prices for our consumers and industry. coming back to poland and bulgaria, the recent cut-off of russian gas supplies to those countries exemplifies the importance of the work done over the years to strengthen the resilience of our infrastructure and properly interconnect the european market. thanks to eu solidarity and the work we have done over the years on the gas infrastructure, both countries are not impacted by russia’s reckless behaviour. so now we will focus on our preparedness for this heating season, but also in the longer run. and the key words are renewables, energy saving and diversification of our supply routes.
thank you so much, commissioner. now our debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has made it clear that the european union must eliminate the union's energy dependence on russia. the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament welcomes the repowereu plan and the associated legislative proposals proposed by the commission to reduce europe's energy dependence on russia. the measures are in the direction of the solutions proposed by the socialists; accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies, improving the energy efficiency of the union, while diversifying our energy supplies and planning investments in energy infrastructure compatible with climate neutrality. the socialists also call for more far-reaching measures to curb the rise in energy prices. in the short term, it is urgent to decouple the price of gas from the price of electricity. the socialists in parliament also support initiatives to provide greater security of energy supply to the union, especially in the event of abrupt cuts in gas supplies. but we are calling for decision and coordination to put the necessary measures and policies into effect.
in writing. the devastating consequences of the war in ukraine the loss of life and the humanitarian crisis that has resulted from the siege and displacement of many people. by 5 may 2022, over 5,7 million people had fled ukraine, and more than 85% of them are currently stranded in an eu country. the burden of the humanitarian crisis is predominantly borne by the member states bordering ukraine and we must therefore provide them with the appropriate and necessary support. we condemn in the strongest terms russia's unprovoked, illegal and unjustified war of aggression against and invasion of ukraine and demand that russia immediately cease all military actions in ukraine and unconditionally withdraw all forces and military equipment from the entire internationally recognised territory of ukraine, as ordered by the international court of justice on 16 march 2022. we fully support the efforts of ukrainian prosecutors and investigators to bring to justice those responsible for war crimes and crimes against humanity, and call on the eu member states, the international community and relevant institutions to fully assist the ukrainian authorities in this process. we call on the member states and the commission to provide all necessary assistance to strengthen the judicial capacity and resources of ukraine to effectively investigate and prosecute war crimes.
in writing. the russian attack on ukraine and the interruption of gas supplies to poland and bulgaria remind us of the need to diversify the eu's energy supply from a single supplier. one of the main pillars of the plan (repowereu plan) is to make the eu less dependent on russian energy and diversify gas and oil suppliers. in this context, the eastmed pipeline and the operation of new lng terminals in cyprus and greece will make a significant contribution to achieving this objective and to the eu's overall energy independence from russian sources. i believe that, for the eu's energy security, the immediate acceleration of the completion of the pipeline feasibility study is needed, as is active support and further eu funding for the completion of such infrastructure.
in writing. – the hardest crisis the european union has faced since its foundation makes us rethink our positioning in the global scenario, our independence and our resilience vis-à-vis shocks and emergencies. energy represents one of the areas where it is more urgent to enhance our autonomy as we have not done enough to ensure our own security of supply, one of the pillars of the energy union. as inflation is at its highest, the most vulnerable citizens cannot bear the cost of such a complex scenario since any disruption in the energy market has repercussions not only on electricity and gas bills, but also on crucial value chains, from food supply to mobility and travel. the repowereu plan can provide the first concrete response to consumers and businesses as the focus on renewables should go hand in hand with the diversification of supplies, providing at the same time a framework that offers enough flexibility for national specificities. the eu must enable true solidarity, a core value that we need, more than ever, in such a difficult period.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, today we are calling for a long-term vision for the european islands, based on an island pact and an island agenda. article 174 of the treaty is clear: the union must pay particular attention to island regions, whose natural, serious and permanent handicaps are recognised. this particular attention, commissioner, is not enough today. it is a gap to be filled, and let us say that there is clearly an underestimation of what european islands are. these islands have a population of over 20 million, spread over some 2 400 islands, mainly in the mediterranean and the atlantic, and belong to 13 member states, of which 3 are island countries. in reality, europe is an archipelago, but it still ignores it. there are some things that are obvious that it is sometimes good to remember: to live on an island is to live surrounded by water, and it is not to live on the mainland. everything is different - the economy, transport, energy, waste management, the logic of import and export and the additional costs they impose on everything, agriculture, water management, the blue economy - everything has to be thought of differently. this report is therefore intended to be the basis for a new relationship between the islands and the european institutions, based on full respect for article 174 of the treaty and the implementation of specific measures. this is fully justified, because insularity is also an additional vulnerability, which is increased by the crises we are experiencing. we see this with the war in ukraine, which directly affects these regions by over-increasing the costs of insularity and remoteness. the islands are also on the front line, as we know, of the effects of climate change, and they have been hit the hardest by the covid-19 crisis. that is why we are simply asking for better consideration of the islands in the regulations and in future budgetary discussions. we are already calling for a review of the state aid system, the abolition of the de minimis ceiling, the creation of a specific programme for the islands, as there is one for the greek islands, and the creation of a compensatory envelope, among other objectives. my dear colleagues, the world is a world of islands, and each island is a world in itself. europe has the opportunity, with its islands, to be at the forefront of all the islands of the world, and would also benefit from building a new global island diplomacy, based on the octs and third countries. that is why our report also proposes to make 2024 the european year of the islands. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to vote massively for this report, which is intended to be the founder, the founder of a new era in the relationship between the islands and the european institutions, and i would ask the commission and the council to listen to the initiative of our parliament and also to listen to the impatience of the islands, because too much time has been wasted. now is the time to act. i tell you, the hour of the islands has struck.
member of the commission. – mr president, the european commission is very conscious of the specific challenges faced by islands. our original data and analyses published in cohesion reports over the years, combined with our practical experience of cohesion programmes and other european investments in islands, give us a clear view of the challenges of insularity. last month we adopted a communication on the outermost regions and islands, and we remain committed, through cohesion policy and all investment policies, to a europe that leaves no region behind, including islands. the commission urges member states to make use of three key cohesion investment tools in cohesion programmes to support islands. firstly, investment in a smart, digital and green transition. there are numerous opportunities in these policy areas. for example, digital connectivity helps address some of the issues linked to remoteness, and today home offices have become a standard way of operation. islands can take advantage and become beneficiaries of the recent changes in the world of work, provided that the requisite infrastructure and skills investments are ensured. we have deliberately simplified the rules, such as the rules on financial allocations, thematic concentration, co-financing rates and programming so that programmes have the flexibility to address the specific needs of islands. secondly, we have proposed a specific objective for the tourism and cultural sectors. islands can benefit from investment focusing on this policy objective, given the importance of this sector for their economies. thirdly, our policy objective ‘europe closer to citizens’ will invest in bottom—up strategies and community—led local development, which is well suited to supporting communities living in islands. these are the opportunities under cohesion policy. we urge member states to use them, but other policies should not be forgotten. specifically, three key opportunities. firstly, the dedicated initiatives for islands under rural development, including the circular economy islands and the clean energy islands. in particular, the commission has established a dedicated secretariat for islands to help them prepare for a clean energy transition. secondly, european investment in our digital and innovative future address the needs of islands. the new connecting europe facility has specific provision for subsea cable connections, as well as broadband provision in islands. horizon europe has the islands facility providing small grants and technical assistance to implement projects. the digital decade targets aim to provide digital connections and digital public services to all europeans wherever they live, including islands. the recovery and resilience plans have the financial firepower to significantly advance this. thirdly, islands and coastal areas are at the forefront of the eu blue growth strategy. the blue economy could be a game changer for islands, leading europe as we become the world’s first carbon—neutral continent. our thanks to the rapporteur, mr omarjee, for this very timely report. today, we have a unique opportunity for islands as we programme and launch a broad range of european investment tools. however, we must make sure that these tools work together and that they work in close partnership with the islanders themselves and their representatives. so today’s discussion is a very welcome step in that direction.
president, mr commissioner, also the rapporteur, colleagues who have worked with us. the challenges facing european islands on a daily basis have been ignored for years. i, from the island of gozo, experience the geographical disadvantage and its effects firsthand. this is also the experience of other citizens who struggle with the lack of adequate and affordable transport. and our businesses are bearing the extra costs related to insularity, even those related to the pandemic and the war. this situation needs to be addressed. the permanent disadvantages facing our islands require permanent solutions. this is why we are urging the european commission to enter into a pact with the european islands. tangible actions are needed to help these islands. this is also to create a more level playing field with the more central areas. continued flexibility on state aid, support for small businesses, enhanced connectivity for sustainable tourism; these are all concrete examples of how we can help our islands to avoid falling back into the digital core and, especially, the environmental core that we want to make. this week we will be voting on the 'fit for 55' environmental package, a package with essential targets and ambitions but which still does not adequately take into account the realities facing our islands. we remember that we are dependent on sea and air transport, and we should have specific aid in this respect. the inclusion of islands on the political agenda of the european union is therefore the only way forward to address this reality. a path to strengthening the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the union's peripheral regions. this is, after all, a matter of free movement and social justice with our islands, with the maltese, the gozitan and citizens coming from all the european islands. thank you and i encourage you to join us in supporting this report and this work.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what we do tomorrow will probably decide the direction of the european union's internal market and the lives of its citizens. i am concerned and i am concerned because i know very well the situation in many countries. i know the situation in my country, romania, best, and if we apply the procust's law when we have states and citizens and companies developed differently, obviously the most vulnerable will suffer. that is why i very much believe that there are a number of amendments which should be voted on tomorrow in order to be able to correct what has come out of the commission's proposal. i also think, mr timmermans, that you said very well that there must be fairness, but there is no fairness because micro, small and mediumsized enterprises are not protected by this package. and i have a problem with the vulnerable consumer, the citizen. all the costs, all the taxes that go to the companies, of course they ultimately go to the price of the product and to the citizen, and we have to understand -- i come from industry -- that industry needs time and money to innovate and re-technologise. i'm all for having a clean environment, i'm all for going in that direction, but we have to be realistic.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply. a few points from me as a reporter to react. firstly, many people have said that the package is not ambitious, and above all that the emissions trading system is not ambitious enough. if we do the math, if we accept the emissions trading package, we'll reduce 1.5 billion tons of co2 by 2030, that's 1,500 million tons. co2 emissions, which we are so passionately arguing about here, will be reduced by 60 million by 2030 if the commission's proposal is adopted. so the ets is more than 20 times as much as the very sporty proposal on co2 chp. so we really shouldn't say it's not ambitious. we have a few more requests for amendments. mrs grapini, support the amendment tabled by the epp! we want the social fund to support smes too. all you have to do is make your group a plus, and then it has a majority. that would be nice. mr president, many people are concerned about nuclear energy. that is why the committee has made proposals to exclude this in practice. i would like to ask you to ensure that the ets and the modernisation fund and the innovation fund do not become nuclear energy funds, so that we can reassure our colleagues. and to all of you, happy endings. i think pernille weiss and many others have said that; everyone has a point where they say this could be even better. i told you this morning . i am not really happy with ets 2, but i respect the compromise. and if everyone insists on their own maximum line and then rejects the compromise, rejects the report because their maximum demand is not there, then we are not living up to our responsibility. the industry needs planning certainty. she needs support as she embarks on the path to climate neutrality. our planet, our children and grandchildren need ambitious climate action. and we have to vote on that tomorrow.
i thank you very much, mr liese. i would remind you that for technical reasons we are speaking mainly from the pitch in the 'catch-the-eye' procedure. you are cordially invited to come forward.
the rapporteur. mr president, of course climate change is having an impact on our environment and on our ecosystems, as has already been said. i attended some of the lectures. of course, i agree with many of the comments made on this report, for example, the package of market-based measures. it is not perfect, of course, but these measures will bring us the closest we can get to climate neutrality by 2050. what we have negotiated in the european social climate fund is not perfect but, over the last few months, i and other members in this parliament have done our best to ensure that the fund will work in the best way. we found the best compromises and we were able to work and move forward. i hope that tomorrow, during the vote, we will stick to the compromises we have all agreed to, because i think the balance we have struck is a good balance. we have a good basis for entering into negotiations with the council. i call on my colleagues to give us a strong mandate because the stronger the mandate, the more positive the results.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank everyone who took part in the debate. many of you have highlighted the importance of the fit for 55 package and the green transition. and of course, we talked about making the european green deal or the european climate law and the green plan a reality. whether that's the reality, we'll see tomorrow. i hope so. our key objective is to make europe the first climate-neutral continent. i'm just reminding you of that commitment that we all have and that we've heard a lot about today. the commission has already provided a number of examples of the use of the new approach in the context of the green deal. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments in the field of aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments in the field of civil aviation security. i heard during the debate, some doubts. there's been lobbying, there's been pressure, there's been negotiation, but we have to rely on our own sanity here, on what's important and what we want to achieve. we have to respect our goals, and those goals have to be a reflection of our reality, and we can't let industry take the whole burden. at the same time, attention must be paid to the situation regarding job retention, but also to the changes brought about by new technologies, which must be in line with the objectives we have set ourselves. our goal is to preserve mobility and industry while being in tune with our climate change. i would like to stress one more very important point in the context of the report to the council, namely that we must work to keep the new possible burdens on our citizens and passengers to a minimum and to a level that is proportionate. finally, i would like to thank all those who have participated in the work and all those who will support this package. this is a package for our future.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, with all the political differences we have, with all the different angles you could have on this issue, my plea before you today would be ‘at least agree’. let’s agree on the science. at least let’s agree that what the international climate panel has written is extremely alarming. at least let’s agree that whatever our difficulties may be, the climate crisis is not going to go away; it’s going to intensify. and the longer we procrastinate, the more intensive it will be. that is not ideology, ladies and gentlemen, that is science. then ideology comes in and then you make the choices you want to make. but i would hold before you today: denying science, that’s ideology. denying science: that is using ideology to deny our children and grandchildren a safe future. by protecting – so-called ‘protecting’ – what you have today, who will suffer most if we procrastinate? it is the poorest people in society, it is the people who have nowhere else to go. it is the small businesses. it is the farmers. these people will suffer most the longer we take to do what is needed. rich people can always find a different place to live, can always find a way out. ordinary people cannot. that’s why i believe we need to act. parliament knows full well i respect the fact that you found a compromise on the dedicated ets system. i don’t agree with that compromise, as you know. and we will see what happens in the trilogue. but my fundamental point here is: look, try and create as much transparency as you can where the cost will fall. of course there is a cost involved in introducing a price on carbon, but if you combine that with a climate social fund that will mitigate those costs for those most vulnerable or those who are hit most by this, then i think this is justified. if you put the cost elsewhere, which is what the compromise upon does, then you have to also be honest that cost sooner or later will also end with the same people. and then you need to ask yourselves: is then the climate social fund big enough to then really mitigate those costs? but we’ll get there, i guess, in the trilogues when we revisit the issue. now, another element which for me is extremely important, which was raised by many – a bit less here, a bit less there. as far as european industry is concerned, they want one thing and that’s clarity: clarity, predictability and reliability. so let’s not fudge things. let’s not introduce the idea that there could be also in the future fuels that would be clean. no: for cars and vans that’s nonsense. the car industry has made its choice. don’t confuse them. if they’re already on board for electric mobility for cars and vans, don’t make it more difficult for them. and don’t postpone 2035, many car-makers are even on a sooner trajectory. 2035 isn’t science fiction. some would even argue it’s not ambitious enough. but i think this is where we could all land. and those car manufacturers that might have difficulty because they make smaller cars are in a different position, they can profit from support from the just transition fund to make these things happen more quickly. but don’t create a fudge with a so-called 90% or with these fuels that are way too expensive to ever form a solution for cars and vans. and, by the way, we will need them in aviation, but that’s a different discussion altogether. all in all, mr president, i think we live in the most transformational time, arguably, that humanity has ever experienced. one could say that the first industrial revolution was also transformative. true, but it took a long time and it didn’t happen everywhere at the same time. this industrial revolution, combined with the climate crisis, is the biggest challenge humanity has ever faced. and the bad news is we are coming late to this challenge. the good news is we can still fix it if we act now. if you vote tomorrow to let us fix it, and the rest of the world is already following us. yes, we are only responsible for 8% of global emissions, but the chinese are copying our ets systems. the americans are very interested in what we’re doing on cbam and looking whether they could have the same systems. the circular economy that we’re creating is copied everywhere in the world. and, like it was with the internal market, like it was with environmental legislation, like was every time we took a step higher on the levels of our protection, parts of industry would say, ‘this is the end of industry, this is the end of employment, so many million jobs will disappear’. the reality is, every time europe ups the ante our economy grows, our employment grows, and the rest of the world follows our lead. let it be the same here again.
president of the council. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr timmermans, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this rich discussion which shows the importance of the legislative package adjustment to objective 55 and the willingness of parliament to engage in a substantive debate on the proposals. i was very pleased to see that most of the political groups agreed on the importance of the issues we discussed this morning. our ambitions for the planet are being followed internationally and i am delighted with the example we are setting today. europe, our continent, with the legislative package "adaptation to objective 55", is showing the way towards more climate neutrality. more concretely, we need to link climate justice and social justice. our compass must be the protection of our citizens, of all european citizens, of jobs and also of businesses. we must ensure the competitiveness of our enterprises by supporting them in their adaptation. with the war in ukraine, we entered a period of uncertainty. in a context of a return to inflation throughout europe, we must protect the most vulnerable citizens from the rising cost of living and, in particular, from the rise in energy prices. that is the ambition of the social climate fund. the council looks forward to the results of the forthcoming vote and we look forward to the prospect of trilogue negotiations in due course to implement these proposals as quickly as possible. the french presidency of the council of the european union is fully involved in this effort. it has already done so with the adoption of the general guideline on the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders last march, which will prevent the risk of deindustrialisation and inequality in international trade. the presidency will do its utmost to ensure that the council can adopt its position on the other proposals which will be discussed this afternoon. ladies and gentlemen, we must succeed together for our european citizens. we have to succeed for our planet. thank you.
thank you very much, madam secretary of state zacharopoulou. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 8 june 2022. we shall now adjourn the sitting until the votes are taken at 2 p.m. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. – this plenary session marks a historical moment as we are ready to vote on an ambitious, much awaited package that aims to live up to citizens’ expectations. decarbonisation is urgent and cannot wait any longer. while enabling the environmental transition, we should - however - not forget that legislation for a cleaner europe must match with adequate ambition in terms of the economic, social and territorial cohesion. as a representative of an island member state, i cannot overlook that certain aspects of the fit for 55 package still pose serious concerns for the insular and peripheral territories, which solely rely on aviation and maritime transport. the right to mobility and free movement, price stability and the future of the most important economic sectors of these regions are amongst the concerns that need to be properly recognised and addressed. i thus strongly urge the european commission to come forth with a european pact for islands as one of the solutions to offset such disadvantage. our pledge to leave no one behind in the environmental transition is more real than ever.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs farreng, rapporteur for the cult committee, and mr cañas, rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions. i would also like to thank the chairman of the cult committee, mrs verheyen, and all the fictitious rapporteurs for their work on this very important report. i know that your assembly is fully committed to the erasmus+ programme, which will celebrate its 35th anniversary in 2022, and i appreciate all the more your dedication and your critical vision and the ideas you have put forward. your report, first of all, concerns the previous programme, between 2014 and 2020. i am pleased that you have seen an overall positive development in inclusion measures during this period. the previous programme had succeeded in reaching a large number of disadvantaged people and promoting inclusion in all its activities. one of the achievements of the previous programme is certainly the positive experience of using the youth inclusion and diversity strategy as a practical tool to support organisations and increase the inclusiveness of the actions implemented. another achievement is the existence of a resource centre for inclusion and diversity, also active in the field of youth. however, your report also notes some shortcomings in the previous programme and i agree with that. more can be done to reach even more people facing barriers to participation in programmes and to improve the mechanisms by which inclusion can be implemented. as such, i shall pay particular attention to the points you have just raised, madam rapporteur, dear laurence. now many of the report's recommendations have already been taken into account in the new generation of erasmus+ 2021-2027. first, the inclusive dimension is at the heart of the new programme. the programme will provide better access for the most disadvantaged through specific inclusion measures ranging from financial mechanisms to more targeted communication. mrs. farreng, you said we were missing data; i think that is a very good point and one that will have to be considered because, as i have just said, there are now measures to fill this gap. secondly, a framework of measures for inclusion was adopted by the commission last october in the form of a commission decision. a resource centre for all sectors of education and training was established in 2021. third, to better address the specific challenges of access to programmes in their national context, national agencies develop their own inclusion plan based on the european framework. in addition, a network of inclusion and diversity officers within national agencies has been established to facilitate this work and the exchange of good practice. fourthly, we also now have dedicated inclusion measures, as i have just said, ranging from financial mechanisms to targeted communication. they aim to enable many more people to gain a learning experience abroad in another country, in particular by involving more disadvantaged people in the project. finally, many measures related to inclusion have been put in place since 2021. let me give you some concrete examples. these are the new accreditation system, a specific unit cost to support organisations involving disadvantaged people, the extension of preparatory visits to all sectors or greater flexibility in the duration of mobility activities for disadvantaged people. also under discovereu, a new action aims to help more disadvantaged young people to participate in the initiative and learn more about the european union by travelling by train across its different countries. and these participants are directly supported by field organisations and can benefit from more targeted support and funding. inclusion, as i have just said, is now a cross-cutting priority of the programme. for example, in non-formal education activities, such as youth exchanges or youth participation activities, very appropriate formats of activities are proposed precisely to work on inclusion and diversity as the subject of the project. we have also included the social dimension specifically in the evaluation criteria for the centres of professional excellence, which parliament has also strongly supported in the negotiations for new programmes, and in the erasmus+ teachers' academies, for which i thank you again. now, in conclusion, i would like to emphasise that your work in this report will be particularly useful in feeding the final evaluation of the erasmus+ 2014-2020 programme, which has just started preparation and is due to be transmitted to your institution within the given deadlines. this evaluation will accompany the mid-term evaluation of new programmes and will also include an analysis of the impact of the inclusion measures launched since 2021. if today we can maintain our ambitions in the erasmus+ programme, it is thanks to your commitment. so i would like to thank you again and i am listening to you now.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear commissioner, this year we celebrate the 35th anniversary of erasmus+. more than 12 million european citizens have participated in this exchange programme. the programme has evolved over time and has offered life—changing experiences, from students to young professionals, from higher education to vocational training. despite its great success, the programme still can be improved and increase its accessibility to more participants. the report that we will vote tomorrow assesses the inclusivity of the programme and recommends measures to widen the audience even more. we want to provide chances to those citizens with fewer opportunities and to people living in more remote areas such as peripheral regions and islands. based on the epp proposal, the report calls for more cooperation with countries in the western balkans and the eastern and southern neighbourhood. i would like to thank the rapporteur for including all our suggestions as well. in addition, we call for more assistance to ukrainian students and more support to be provided to sustain ukraine’s higher education and academic community. in the report, we also call to lower the administrative burden, to better access to impact of actions by national agencies and to facilitate participation of people with specific needs and disabilities. erasmus+ is a not a privilege. it must be available to all. and i hope that this report will serve as a guideline for the commission as well to make it happen.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, these are very difficult times for our young people. the pandemic has hit and struck them hardest, not only in terms of unemployment but also negatively affected the mental health of our young people. their situation has further deteriorated due to rising inflation, rising prices and the negative economic and social effects of the war we are currently experiencing. millions of children and young people are fleeing the conflict in ukraine and are facing poverty, isolation and uncertainty. erasmus is one of the most successful european projects, helping millions of young people to benefit from learning, mobility and employment opportunities. the new programme is more relevant in this respect too, as it focuses on inclusiveness and also focuses on diversity. erasmus is and should be accessible to all, but especially to young people who lack opportunities, who face health problems, economic difficulties, learning difficulties, difficulties and social obstacles in their gender, religion and even sexual orientation. and so it is important that we continue to strengthen this programme to ensure that it is implemented in the best possible way and is accessible to everyone, everywhere and at all times.
in writing. – national agencies for erasmus+ serve as important assets in supporting the implementation of the inclusion and diversity strategy. in order to ensure the overall success of the project, we must pay close attention to it capabilities when it comes to applications and reporting on erasmus+ projects and activities. we cannot allow the lack of tools to discourage both individuals and smaller organisations from participating in the programme; we must address administrative barriers. we also need to ensure that everyone has access to this important project, ensuring gender-balanced representation, including women in all areas of education, especially in science, technology, engineering, art and mathematics. investing in equally accessible education for all must be at the heart of our commitment – and this includes assisting various vulnerable groups, including children who are victims of the ukrainian war. let us assure the most vulnerable ones of the bright european future that is ahead of them, providing them with adequate support to enhance their personal development.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not the only one to have a problem with the european parliament. digital markets are disrupted. we have companies here who write the rules of the markets they dominate, whose access they control. their services have become so important to people that they literally sell their souls to use these networks, these services. the soul of digital markets is our data. collecting data, organizing it, and then making accurate profiles of us, the users, is the source of these companies' omnipotent position. our swords of competition and privacy have proved to be blunt. in the netherlands, for example, apple prefers to pay regular fines rather than change its business model. so it was necessary and right that the dma finally give us the tools to control data hacking and unrestrained big tech companies. i would like to highlight two achievements of the dma. first, messenger services must open up and allow the exchange of messages with customers of other messenger services. this will finally allow women end-users to exercise their right to choose and choose the service that best protects their rights, without being forced to choose the service that everyone else is on. parents don't have to sell their souls anymore if they want to be on the elementary school parent app. secondly, the commission is given the right to adopt so-called structural measures if companies repeatedly fail to comply with our rules. it can prohibit them from buying up competitors and, in the worst case, order the dismantling of a company. these are penalties that are going to hurt and change the behavior of big tech companies. these innovations should also inspire the commission to revise competition law and merger control. in doing so, the dma is laying the foundations for the recovery of digital markets and becoming a true game changer. for my group, i would like to dedicate this success to my predecessor, evelyne gebhardt, who is sitting at the top of the visitors' stand with us today and who improved the dma for us during the parliamentary procedure.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, this is a big step, a huge change, and a huge chance to make the digital world better. instead of piecemeal solutions, these two laws create one system for the whole european single market and with time perhaps the wider global internet. i hope today we start a new era for the internet, that we start the hard work of making the internet safer and better for our citizens and especially our children. an internet that keeps the best of us – free speech, innovation, and universal knowledge – while limiting the worst. references to the wild west, gold standards and what is illegal offline is illegal online have come to the point of being internet memes and different games, especially among the tech journalists. but the key point here is that our citizens should know that their lives will get better thanks to this vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, today, we are discussing two flagship legislations of this mandate. the digital services act and the digital markets act are needed as rapidly evolving digital technologies transformed eu citizens’ and companies’ use of internet, and required updated rights and obligations for all digital actors, from markets and service providers to users and customers. the digital markets act is a step forward, promoting greater competition and fairness online in markets dominated by big platforms. i believe it will lead to improvements for all businesses across europe and will open new opportunities for small businesses, including access to data. and, under the digital services act, we have reached our purpose – the online environment is now set to become much more transparent and safer for users. in my capacity as shadow rapporteur for both legislations, i would also like to thank the rapporteurs, ms schaldemose and mr schwab, for their work, engagement in defending the european parliament’s position and excellent cooperation. i believe all of these achievements not only defend fundamental rights online for europeans, but also put us on the right track to set the global benchmark for regulating online platforms in the future, including cloud services and search engines, so that freedom of expression is always guaranteed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank the two rapporteurs for these two important pieces of legislation, which represent a crucial turning point in the regulation of a digital market, where more and more citizens and businesses, as has been said, meet and, over the years, there are many increased risks for users and many forms of unfair competition. for many years, the digital giants have controlled the market, asserting their economic power and creating a veritable monopoly, in which small businesses have not always had an adequate role and consumers have not always been considered. i believe that the european union has finally decided to have rules to ensure fair competition, innovation and consumer protection. there will be sanctions, because the digital markets act is obviously a pillar, but it is important to monitor its implementation because the digital market, as it has evolved in recent years, will continue to react to this legislation and it is important to be able to adapt it to avoid that, once the law is made, there is, of course, a trick, and in this we will be careful enforcers of an important law for this european union.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, first of all christel and rene, on the excellent work they have done. these are indeed laws that will change the internet as we know it and set a standard for protecting citizens on a global scale. the internet has become the wild west over the years. anyone can fake an identity, anyone can track anyone, take their information, cheat, financially harm anyone, anyone can say and write bad and false things about anyone without any consequences. for too long, our citizens have been at the mercy of google and facebook, who have profited handsomely from our data, even the most sensitive data. this law puts a responsibility on internet giants to verify the content they offer, not to manipulate users or use their data without their knowledge. the interoperability of messaging services and the prohibition of tracking for the purpose of advertising to minors shall be established. anyone who wants to do business with us has to abide by our rules. today we have shown that there are no untouchables in the european union!
mr president, madam vice-president, mr commissioner, we are aware of the benefits of the digital revolution, but also of its risks: fraud and dangerous products, threats to the physical and psychological integrity of minors, illegal dissemination of content protected by intellectual property, dependence of smes on the internet giants or interference in electoral processes in third countries, to name just a few. what we have called the digital wild west is the consequence of the, until today, lack of clear regulation, which has positioned us at the tail end of the digital career revolution. the digital services act and the digital markets act have enough potential to start solving the problems that the internet giants have generated in our domestic market. we created a digital constitution to protect and improve citizens' accessibility in the online environment and we laid the foundations for our businesses, especially our smes, to grow and compete in a conducive environment. this is just the beginning to position the european union in the global digital race. further work is needed to complement this legislation and to address specific challenges. we all fit into the digital single market, as long as our rules are respected and no one imposes anything on us from the outside, on the basis of what we have called the european way.
mr. president, both the dsa and the dma are the first of its kind unique instruments to regulate big tech companies. the new rules will force the tech giants to play fair and end their abuse of power and ability to game the digital economy for their dividends while creating harm for our societies, for our citizens. we will finally move away from a purely advertisementcentric and surveillance-based model to rules focusing on peoples interests in accessing and sharing high quality content, high quality information. more than ever, in the wake of the fighting of propaganda and also the disinformation war, we will need the democratic tools to regulate user safety, to protect our consumers, to fight targeted advertising, to end the surveillance of users, and to safeguard transparency and accountability. at the beginning of the mandate, we have put the framework to ensure that what is illegal offline should also be illegal online. i must say that the new rules have fully fulfilled our expectations to empower people and to take back control of the internet. once again, europe has been the champion and shaper of a better global digital world.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by thanking you for inviting the council to a debate on an initiative that provides a useful platform for cooperation of the member states between the baltic, the black and the adriatic sea. the three seas initiative is of particular relevance in the current volatile and uncertain geopolitical situation because of its strong focus on energy security and connectivity in europe. in that respect, it is a project that brings added value to the region while complementing the overall eu objectives. allow me to develop a bit more on how we see the potential for cooperation among the three seas initiative’s partners in the key areas of energy and connectivity. one of the priorities of the initiative is that of energy security, in particular the diversification of routes and sources of energy supply across the region. by focusing on these aspects, the three seas initiative and its dedicated fund is directly addressing the priorities set by eu leaders – namely, the transition to alternative energy, the creation of sustainable and resilient energy infrastructure and the phasing—out of our dependence on russian gas and oil supplies. the three seas initiative’s focus on connectivity is also related to the current geopolitical and economic environment. the goal of ensuring smart transportation corridors for the whole region and the development of digital infrastructure solutions will contribute to a more resilient and more autonomous eu.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the commission would like to thank the european parliament for organising this topical debate on the three seas initiative, which is highly relevant in the context of russia’s unprovoked military aggression against ukraine. it has exacerbated the existing trends of a tightening of energy and food markets, triggering increased price volatility and energy insecurity across the globe. contrary to russia’s disinformation, it is russia’s invasion in ukraine that has caused these impacts, not the sanctions of the eu on russia. the current situation requires that we work together even closer, including with our strategic allies. the three seas initiative is well aligned with the eu’s energy objective, and this political and economic cooperation can very usefully complement and give a substantial additional boost to the implementation of the repowereu plan. in fact, repowereu is our response to the global energy market disruption caused by russia’s invasion of ukraine. its key elements are to save fossil energy, replace it with renewables and diversify away from russian fossil fuels. close cooperation is particularly important for countries that are most exposed to russian threats. the organisation of energy infrastructure is key for european energy security, and in the three seas region the eu has provided strong support for energy, transport and digital infrastructure through its cohesion and infrastructure funds. we will continue to do so in the years to come, especially in order to support investments that contribute to a cleaner, more resilient and more digital future. the war in ukraine has also highlighted that, in the area of transport, there is a need to urgently provide better cross-border connectivity with our neighbours in the east. the commission remains fully committed to this and is proactively working on finding solutions to bridge the connectivity gap. concerning the region covered by the three seas initiative, you will be aware that it is an integral part of the core network of the trans-european transport network, and more than half of the eur 22.4 billion budget of the cef 1 under the previous financial programming period has been invested in this region. under the new mff, the cef 2 has already made additional eu co-funding available with a view to completing the core network by 2030. as a regional cooperation platform, the three seas initiative can certainly support the union in our ambitions of realising the ten-t, creating a ‘first of its kind’ a genuinely dense european network out of what was essentially a patchwork. to this end, however, it is important that we continue to discuss how we can work together in shaping common objectives. connectivity is also a key enabler for the digital transformation. reaching the 2030 gigabit and 5g targets at the end of the digital decade is essential for sustainable digital economic growth. any digital project, and in particular investment in digital infrastructure, should be developed applying appropriate cybersecurity measures. this mff is an opportunity to ensure that the countries of the three seas initiative are on track to fulfil these objectives. the commission expects member states to invest in forward-looking, state of the art, fibre and 5g infrastructures that underpin a competitive and green economy. we are pleased to see that member states plan to devote more than 26% of their rrf funds to connectivity, and we will also support investments in connectivity with another eur 2 billion from the cef digital programme. the latter will target in particular backbone networks, as well as the cross—border segments of 5g corridors and 5g communities. we are equally pleased to see regional endeavours such as the three seas initiative with its corresponding fund, part of which is dedicated to digital capacities and infrastructures. given that the fund intervenes in areas which are also supported by eu initiatives such as the rrf and cef digital, it is important to reflect on the possible synergies between the different sources of funding. a new call will be launched for cef digital later this year, and there will be more opportunities to finance investments in digital infrastructure. on a personal note, i myself participated two weeks ago at the three seas summit that took place in riga, so i thank you very much for this agenda point and i’m looking forward to an interesting debate.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, commissioner, thank you for your intervention and of course for that of the council. the interconnection of national, transport, energy and digital networks and the integration of european networks is a strategic priority. russia's aggression in ukraine has demonstrated that better interconnection of energy and transportation networks would reduce energy and even food insecurity. in the current geopolitical situation, the three seas initiative is becoming increasingly important. the north-south connection is a much-needed, strategically important project in the context of the current crisis: brua, rail, 2-c, via carpatia, engie terminals or the completion of the ten-t network are on the agenda for cooperation between the 12 member states and we should also welcome the fact that in riga ukraine was invited to participate in this initiative. in order for european funds, the union connecting facility, but also the cohesion funds to contribute to the interconnection of networks, cooperation between member states is vital. it is necessary that these projects be completed as soon as possible. i ask the commission to analyse and act quickly to avoid possible bottlenecks caused by bureaucratic aspects, especially for cross-border projects, to use flexibility regarding project pre-financing, technical assistance or other specific requests of member states. i also ask the commission to consider the possibility of proposing an amendment to the sef 2 to include the financing of solidarity lines that are absolutely necessary for the transport of agricultural products from ukraine.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the european union’s strategic autonomy heavily depends on our democratic, social, technological and digital agendas. technological and digital sovereignty are key to ensuring a stronger, independent and competitive european union in an increasingly digitalised world. regional cooperation initiatives across our european union, such as the three seas initiative, are good examples of strategic importance of investing in regional interconnectivity that benefits the whole of the european union. like others of its kind, this initiative will help boost economic growth, improve the livelihoods of our citizens, create job opportunities, promote innovation and foster competitiveness. investments in high—performance digital infrastructure and in developing innovative digital technologies are critical for achieving the union’s strategic autonomous voice, continued economic growth and stability, and improved connectivity and security in europe. we all know how important such initiatives will be for regions that are heavily affected by the pandemic and, because of their strategic geopolitical importance, are severely impacted by the war in ukraine.
mr president, i would like to thank you. sustainability must be the guiding principle of the future of construction. it is about both reducing emissions and creating better habitats. i see two key issues in this respect. first of all: we need to build more in wood - sustainable, renewable - and reduce emissions dramatically. more people should be inspired by the nordic countries and dare to build more sustainably. living materials create living environments. secondly: better buildings mean cheaper electricity bills. improving energy efficiency must permeate all projects. it is important that this be done at eu level. better houses in one country will lower electricity prices in all. so my hope is that this initiative can lead the whole of europe towards more sustainable building where we can exchange good examples, like wooden houses, that reduce electricity costs for all of us.
mr president, it is really a constant principle of improving the quality of life in our cities, in our communities, in our built spaces. and i would like to thank the commissioner for taking up this matter and also for having already achieved some results in doubling the budget chapter. and to my colleagues, for making very thoughtful contributions. it's really about how we live in our built environments, how we care not only about our architecture, but also about cultural policy in general, about tradition, but also about innovation, as well as how we grapple with the development of modern technologies, renewable energy, energy efficiency of buildings, inclusiveness, all of these are very good topics. i am very grateful to my colleagues, and perhaps to one of my colleagues from the ecr group, who, in this contribution, in this parliamentary debate, has said, i think, some words that are almost hateful. it's sad about a subject that could be framed by the slogan "neighbors' lives in beauty".
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i would like to thank the european parliament once again for the fruitful discussion. thank you for your support. thank you for the relevant ideas you put into the report. thank you also for the enthusiasm and positive emotion you are showing towards the new european bauhaus. it is true that you, who are in constant, i would say daily contact with the citizens in the territories, are the ones who have made it possible - and will continue to help us - to ensure that the new european bauhaus takes off. it was done thanks to your decisive intervention, but now let's just take it a step further. we have moved on from the objectives that had led us, to things that are concrete for our citizens, to things that can be convincing. so i would like to say again here that the report contains these very valuable suggestions which will enable us to take the initiative in the right direction, to help improve the quality of life for everyone and all this by creating healthy and affordable living spaces. work is now under way on the first follow-up report which will be made available to parliament and the council at the end of this year 2022. we are aware of the need to pursue synergies with various european union programmes in order to ensure diversity of entry points, diversity of perspectives, and to better integrate the concept, including the bauhaus, into the work and institutional framework of the european commission as a whole. however, this should not dissuade us from working on the appropriation of this initiative by national and local governments and administrations. i see this as one of the conditions for the sustainability of the initiative, one of the conditions for an ambitious budgetary and programming framework in the next multiannual financial perspective. i will end on that point, but i think the phrase that can sum it all up is: count on my total mobilization. especially on the points we discussed today. and once again, thank you for your support and your valuable contribution.
rapporteur. – mr president, i think my colleagues and i, we listened carefully to the other committees, to the members and i think a lot has been said. but i would like to appeal yet again and to reiterate, the idea of the bauhaus. in these harsh times it might be a little bit like something nice to have – to flourish up public space, integrate artists, something like that. for me, the european bauhaus is the core question of whether the green deal is going to work. because we have to understand – and that’s bitter for the epp, for example, and our voters – that we might have to change our life to some extent in order to pave the way for the next generation and leave them liveable earth. but so far we have addressed people, citizens, the young generations with regulation, we have said, ‘don’t do. don’t consume. don’t trouble. do not behave like you had been behaving’. this is not an option. we are living in a complex society and everything we know about psychology – and politics is foremost psychology – is that the acceptance of regulation, not that we press on people, the acceptance of people is related to creativity. that’s the transformative force in our society. and we desperately need the bauhaus because we regulate but we are lacking a lot of innovation, technology, ideas on the way we live. the figures based on the idea are simple: the creative industry has been filing more patents on innovation than any other sector in europe – not it, not cars, not the old industry, it has been the creative industry – so we need that potential. it is not flourishing up something. it has the ability to transform innovation, innovative ideas, regulation, the green deal, into something liveable, acceptable and positive for citizens.
the rapporteur. mr president, the seeds of the new bauhaus have sprouted across europe, the change this movement proposes has proven to be as necessary as it is urgent: most of our houses were built in the 1950s and 1960s, when lifestyles were very different; now we have fewer children, families have changed, teleworking has arrived, the pandemic has clearly shown us the importance of home. the new european bauhaus comes to adapt housing to these changes by combining energy efficiency, beauty 'understood as comfort, as the adaptation of spaces to their uses', and, above all, social inclusion: focusing investment on the people who need it most, using public funds to improve the lives of those who need it most. for this seed to become a strong tree, we need the commitment of the european commission, a programme with a stable budget, with its own identity, to make the new bauhaus a reality throughout europe. the original bauhaus movement came to democratize our homes, our objects, to make them more comfortable, easier to produce, more affordable. a hundred years have passed and ways of life have changed much more than the built spaces, but the time has come, the democratizing spirit of the bauhaus has been rekindled in the european union and it is time to transform our buildings, neighbourhoods and cities to improve the lives of the citizens who need it most: let's grow the seed.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
mr president, i welcome this report from my budget colleagues on the 2021 proposals for the revision of the multiannual financial framework. this report importantly ensures the mff’s compatibility with the parliament’s fit for 55 package, particularly the alignment of the mff with the parliament’s position on the social climate fund. the social climate fund is essential to supporting and protecting vulnerable households, micro-enterprises and transport users as the emissions—trading system is expanded. at a time of soaring inflation and energy costs, we need to be sure that climate policies are implemented in a way that protects vulnerable groups. i also echo my colleagues’ call for consideration of a broader revision of the mff. we must consider the current budget allocations and whether they are appropriate for the europe we are living in today. we need a legislative proposal for a comprehensive mff revision as soon as possible.
mr president, i have supported this report because it reveals one fundamental idea with which i agree. our european budget is not prepared for the many crises we face. there is no doubt that we have a climate crisis, a geopolitical crisis, we have to support ukraine. it's our commitment, and it also supports our security objectives, which require very heavy spending. and it is clear that the need to ask the member states for a certain degree of openness is absolutely necessary. europe needs its own resources. i myself was skeptical of this principle, but i must say that i was wrong about this. it is clear that the european budget is able to accelerate performance, that it has a really high rate of efficiency of the money invested in achieving the objectives. and i think it is important that we draw attention to the need for a budget review and actually ask the member states for the conciliation we are asking them for in this resolution.
a uachtaráin, is follasach go gcuireann an t-athrú aeráid go mór isteach ar eiceachóras in the foraoise agus laws without ráite, could in the foraoiseacha iad féin troid in aghaidh an athraithe aeráid. naturally, it is possible for carbon to be absorbed from the atmosphere and, therefore, the amount of carbon in the atmosphere is reduced. for the sake of the eu, we must, in the future, improve and enlarge the european union so that carbon neutrality can be achieved. lena chooses sin, cabhraíonn in the foraoiseacha le neart services andiceachoral ar nós uisce agus aer glan, faoi choinne iad to chosaint the chreimeadh. the main aim of the straitéis foraoise an aontais is to achieve effective, efficient and sustainable development in the union. it is lighter than the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and less ionic than in storage. therefore, of course, i voted for the report.
a uachtaráin. i commend my colleague christophe hansen on the work he has done on this file. this proposal for a regulation to limit the availability of products linked to deforestation on the eu market is a step in the right direction in order to achieve the eu’s commitment to curb deforestation and forest degradation. this is a topic close to the heart of many of my constituents in ireland south. they want to know where the products that they buy come from and to be sure that these products are not linked to the destruction of forests and their ecosystems. for this reason, i welcome the ambition to supply deforestation-free products in shops and businesses across europe in the future. it is worth noting that i voted to support the inclusion of financial institutions’ activities with this regulation. financial institutions must take responsibility for ensuring that finance they provide to companies does not contribute to the activities that pose a risk to forests and our ecosystems. i am very pleased to support this report.
mr president, i have endorsed this report. i consider this to be a very good basis for negotiations with the member states. i firmly believe that the approach of the european parliament will also be supported by the member states. we are leaders in responsible deforestation. this is a problem that really threatens our future. i believe that a list of products, for example, that we will no longer import or even export, is a good basis for further negotiations. i think it shows the way for responsible democratic states not only in the european union but also for our partners abroad. i also supported the amendments of the envi committee which called for the responsibility of financial institutions. the reason is simple. money really does matter. unfortunately, these often influence the looting we see in third countries. we've only had one of the few tools. these were trade clauses in agreements we made with our partner countries. now we have another tool. i firmly believe that the member states will support us.
mr president, i have also supported this report, just briefly. it's clear that the covid-19 pandemic has brought a lot of pain to our young generation, to the culture industry. for the people who were affected, of course, i can't minimize this at all, but i wanted to comment specifically on the impact on the creative industries. clearly, the covid-19 era has brought its positive aspects in the cultural field, but unfortunately, the negative aspects have prevailed. the flow of artists to other areas, the cultural activities that could not take place here were fundamentally affected. i believe we should learn from these dark sides. the report indicates where and where to look for lessons. i am very pleased that the european institutions are willing to learn from this. and also that we are providing the lessons to the member states through this report on our own initiative. i was happy to support this report.
as you see, i was very democratic and gave you a lot of time. that concludes the explanations of vote.
the session is closed and will resume tomorrow, wednesday 14 september, at 9.00 a.m., with the main debates on the presidency statement on the state of the union (2022/2754 ((rsp)). the rules of procedure have been published and are available on the european parliament's website.
good morning to all of you, dear colleagues. first of all, i am pleased to welcome the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, to parliament for the annual state of the european union address. it is also very much a special honour to have olena zelenska with us on this important day. dear olena, we are with you and with the ukrainian people. we are here today against an alarming backdrop of an illegal, unjustifiable invasion of sovereign ukraine. high inflation, electricity and energy price rises, a climate catastrophe, increased food insecurity and a fast-emerging cost of living crisis. i think our message today will be that europe will respond. and to underline how to do that, it is my pleasure to give the floor to the president of the european commission to deliver her 2022 state of the european union address. dear ursula, the floor is yours.
president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, my fellow europeans, never before has this parliament debated the state of our union with war raging on european soil. and we all remember that fateful morning in late february. europeans from across our union woke up dismayed by what they saw, shaken by the resurgent and ruthless face of evil. haunted by the sounds of sirens and the sheer brutality of war. but from that very moment on a whole continent has risen in solidarity. at the border crossings where refugees found shelter. in our streets, filled with ukrainian flags. in the classrooms, where ukrainian children made new friends. from that very moment, europeans neither hid nor hesitated. they found the courage to do the right thing. and from that very moment, our union as a whole has risen to the occasion. fifteen years ago, during the financial crisis, it took us years to find lasting solutions. a decade later, when the global pandemic hit, it took us only weeks. but this year, as soon as russian troops crossed the border into ukraine, our response was united, determined and immediate. and i think we can be proud of that. (applause)we have brought europe’s inner strength back to the surface. and we will need all of this strength. the moments ahead of us will not be easy, be it for families who are struggling to make ends meet, or businesses who are facing tough choices concerning their future. and let us be very clear, much is at stake. not just for ukraine but for all of europe and the world at large. and we will be tested. tested by those who had to exploit any kind of divisions between us. and this is not only a war unleashed by russia against ukraine, this is also a war on our energy, it’s a war on our economy, it’s a war on our values. it is a war on our future. it is about autocracy against democracy. and i stand here with the conviction that with the necessary courage and with the necessary solidarity, putin will fail and ukraine and europe will prevail. (applause) today courage has a name, and that name is ukraine. courage has a face, and that face is the face of ukrainian men and women who are standing up to the russian aggression. i remember a moment in the early weeks of the invasion when the first lady of ukraine, olena zelenska, gathered the parents of ukrainian children killed by the invader. hundreds of families for whom the war will never end, and for whom life will never go back to what it was before. we saw the first lady leading a silent crowd of heartbroken mothers and fathers, and hang small bells in the trees, one for every fallen child. and now these bells will ring forever in the wind, and forever, the innocent victims of this war will live in our memories. and yes, she is here with us today. my dear olena zelenska, it took immense courage to resist putin’s cruelty. but you found the courage. and a nation of heroes has risen. today, ukraine stands strong because an entire country has fought street by street and house by house. and we are seeing in the last days the bravery of the ukrainians is paying off. ukraine stands strong because people like your husband, president zelensky, have stayed in kyiv to lead the resistance – together with you and your children. you have given courage to a whole nation. (applause)you have given a voice to your people on a global stage. you have given hope to all of us. so today we want to thank you and all ukrainians. glory to a country of european heroes. slava ukraini! (applause) europe’s solidarity with ukraine will remain unshakeable. from day one on, europe has stood at ukraine’s side – with weapons, with funds, with hospitality for refugees, and with the toughest sanctions the world has ever seen. russia’s financial sector is on life-support. we have cut off three quarters of russia’s banking sector from international markets. nearly one thousand international companies have left the country. the production of cars fell by 75% compared to last year. aeroflot is grounding planes because there are no more spare parts. the russian military is taking chips from dishwashers and refrigerators to fix their military hardware, because there are no semiconductors anymore. russia’s industry is in tatters. (applause)and it is the kremlin that has put russia’s economy on the path of oblivion. that is the price for russia’s and putin’s trail of death and destruction. and i want to make it very clear, the sanctions are here to stay. this is the time for us having resolve and not for appeasement. this has to be very clear. (applause)the same is true for our financial support for ukraine. so far team europe have provided more than eur 19 billion in financial assistance, and this is without counting the military support. and we are in it for the long haul. ukraine’s reconstruction will require massive resources. for instance, russian strikes have damaged or destroyed more than 70 schools. half a million ukrainian children have started their school year in the european union, but many other ukrainian children simply do not have a classroom to go to. and you told me yesterday, dear olena, that everyday when the parents are sending the children to school they don’t only give them the school bag but also an emergency bag with water, with food, with band aids, with medical supplies, with socks and underwear to change. just imagine you send in the morning your child to school and you do not know whether you are going to be reunited in the afternoon after school. so my dear olena, i am announcing that we will work with you to support the rehabilitation of damaged ukrainian schools. we will provide what you need, this is eur 100 million, because the future of ukraine begins in the schools and with the children. (applause) we will not only support financially but also empower ukraine to make the most of its potential. ukraine has already a rising tech hub and is home to many very young smart companies. so i want us to mobilise the full power of our single market to help accelerate growth and create opportunities. please remember in march we connected successfully ukraine to our electricity grid. it was planned for 2024 – we did it in two weeks only. and today, ukraine is exporting electricity to the european union. so i want to significantly expand this mutually beneficial trade. we have already suspended import duties on ukrainian exports to the eu. we will bring ukraine into our european free roaming area – it’s really time to do that now. our solidarity lanes are a big success. and building on all that, the commission will work with ukraine to go a step further and to ensure a seamless access to the single market of the european union. our single market is one of europe’s greatest success stories – and you know the power that lies in the single market. so now it is time to make it a success story for our ukrainian friends, too. and this is why today i am going to kyiv to discuss all this with president zelensky and to show him what the single market is as a potential for ukraine’s future too. (applause) my honourable members, one lesson from this war is that we should have listened to those who know putin. to anna politkovskaya and all the russian journalists who exposed the crimes, and paid the ultimate price. to our friends in ukraine, moldova, georgia, and the opposition in belarus. we should have listened to the voices inside our union – in poland, in the baltics, and all across central and eastern europe. they have been telling us for years that putin would not stop. and they acted accordingly. our friends in the baltics have worked hard to end their dependency on russia. they have invested heavily in renewable energy, in lng terminals, in interconnectors. they experienced that, yes, this comes at a cost, but dependency on russian fossil fuels comes at a much much higher price. so we have to get rid of this dependency all over europe. as you know, we therefore agreed to joint storage. we are now at 84% now – that’s good, we are overshooting our target. but unfortunately this will not be enough. we have to diversify away from russia to reliable suppliers like the united states, norway, algeria and others. two figures are very interesting. last year, russian gas accounted for 40% of our gas imports. today it’s down to 9%. but we also see that russia keeps actively manipulating our energy market. i mean they prefer to flare the gas instead of sending it to europe according to the contracts that are existing. so this market is not functioning anymore. in addition the climate crisis is heavily weighing on our bills. heat waves have boosted electricity demand. droughts shut down hydro and nuclear plants. and as a result, prices have risen by more than 10 times compared to before the pandemic. making ends meet is becoming a source of anxiety for millions of businesses and households in the european union. but we also see how europeans are coping with this challenge. think of the workers in ceramics factories in central italy who have decided to move their shifts to early morning to benefit from lower energy prices. and just imagine the mothers and fathers among those workers having to leave home early, when the kids are still sleeping, because of a war they have not chosen. this is one example in a million of examples of europeans adapting to the new reality. and i want our union to take example from its people. so reducing demand during peak hours will make supply last longer, and it will bring prices down. this is why we are putting forward measures for member states to reduce their overall electricity consumption. but then targeted support is needed. for enterprises, like the glass makers across europe who can no longer turn on their ovens. or for single parents facing one daunting bill after the next if they look at electricity. millions of europeans need support. this is why we are proposing a cap on the revenues of companies that produce electricity at low costs. these companies are making revenues they never accounted for, they never even dreamt of. and don’t get me wrong, in our social market economy, profits are ok, they are good. but in these times it is wrong to receive extraordinary record revenues and profits benefitting from war and on the back of our consumers. in these times, profits must be shared and channelled to those who need it most. (applause) and there our proposal also includes the fossil fuel electricity producers who have to give a crisis contribution and overall our proposal will raise more than eur 140 billion for member states to cushion the blow directly. these are all emergency and temporary measures we are working on, including our discussions on gas price caps. we need to keep working on lower gas prices. so on the one hand we have to ensure the security of supply. on the other hand we have to ensure global competitiveness. the security of supply because the gas still has to come to the european union, the energy overall. on the other hand if it’s too expensive it’s damaging our global competitiveness. so we will develop with the member states a set of measures to take into account the specific nature of our relationship with suppliers – ranging from unreliable suppliers such as russia to reliable friends such as our norwegian friends for example. i have agreed with prime minister store to set up a task force so that teams work for this aim together to look at how we are able to lower in a reasonable manner the price for gas. another important topic is on the agenda. today our gas markets have changed dramatically – from pipeline that we used to have in abundance mainly to increasing amounts of lng. but the benchmark used in the gas market – the so-called ttf – has not adapted. so this is why the commission will work on establishing a more representative benchmark for the electricity trading that really reflects this change in the market we have seen. at the same time we also know that energy companies are facing severe problems with liquidity in electricity futures markets. we will work with the market regulators to ease these problems by amending the rules on collaterals and by taking measures to limit intra-day price volatility. and we will amend the temporary state aid framework in october to allow for the provision of state guarantees, while preserving a level playing field. this is very complex. this is not at all trivial. but i must say these are only the first steps, because as we deal with this immediate crisis, we must also look forward and therefore my diagnosis is that the current electricity market design that is based on the principle of merit order is not fit for purpose anymore, it is not just for consumers anymore. (applause)consumers should reap the benefits of low-cost renewables – that must be the purpose. so we have to decouple the dominant influence of gas on the price of electricity. this is why we will do a deep and comprehensive reform of the electricity market. now, honourable members, here is one important point. half a century ago, in the 1970s, the world faced another fossil fuel crisis. some of us remember the car-free weekends to save energy. yet we kept driving on the same road. we did not get rid of our dependency on oil. and worse, fossil fuels were even massively subsidised. this was wrong, not just for the climate, but also for our public finances, and our independence as we know today. and we are still paying the price for that. only a few visionaries understood that the real problem was the fossil fuels themselves, not their price. among them were our danish friends. when the oil crisis hit, denmark started to invest heavily into harnessing the power of the wind. they laid the foundation for the global leadership in the sector and created tens of thousands of new jobs. this is the way to go. not just a quick fix, but a change of paradigm, a leap into the future, and that must be our principle today with this crisis too, honourable members. (applause) mesdames et messieurs les députés, la bonne nouvelle est que cette transformation nécessaire a commencé. elle a lieu en mer du nord et en mer baltique où les états membres ont massivement investi dans les éoliennes en mer. elle a lieu en sicile, où la plus grande usine solaire d’europe produira bientôt la toute dernière génération de panneaux solaires. et elle a lieu dans le nord de l’allemagne, où les trains régionaux roulent désormais à l’hydrogène vert. l’hydrogène peut changer la donne pour l’europe. nous pouvons passer du marché de niche au marché de masse pour l’hydrogène. et avec repowereu, nous avons doublé notre objectif: produire 10 millions de tonnes d’hydrogène renouvelable d’ici 2030. pour y parvenir, nous devons créer un animateur de marché pour l’hydrogène afin de combler le déficit d’investissement et de mettre en relation l’offre et la demande futures. c’est pourquoi je peux annoncer aujourd’hui que nous allons créer une nouvelle banque européenne de l’hydrogène. cette banque aidera à garantir l’achat d’hydrogène, notamment en utilisant les ressources du fonds pour l’innovation; elle pourra investir 3 milliards d’euros pour aider à construire le futur marché de l’hydrogène. et c’est ainsi que nous allons bâtir l’économie du futur. c’est cela notre pacte vert pour l’europe. et nous avons tous vu au cours des derniers mois à quel point le pacte vert est important. l’été 2022 restera dans les mémoires. nous avons tous vu les rivières asséchées, les forêts en feu, la chaleur extrême. et la situation est même bien plus grave que cela. jusqu’à présent, les glaciers des alpes ont servi de réserve d’urgence pour des rivières comme le rhin et le rhône. mais comme les glaciers d’europe fondent plus vite que jamais, les sécheresses futures seront beaucoup plus graves. nous devons travailler sans relâche à l’adaptation climatique et faire de la nature notre premier allié. et c’est pour cela que notre union poussera pour un accord mondial ambitieux pour la nature lors de la conférence des nations unies sur la biodiversité qui se tiendra à montréal cette année, et nous ferons de même lors de la cop 27 à charm el-cheikh. mais à court terme, nous devons aussi être mieux équipés pour faire face au changement climatique. aucun pays ne peut lutter seul contre les phénomènes météorologiques extrêmes et leurs forces destructrices. cet été, nous avons envoyé des avions de la grèce, de la suède ou de l’italie pour combattre les incendies en france et en allemagne. mais comme ces événements deviennent plus fréquents et plus intenses, l’europe aura besoin de plus de capacités. et c’est pourquoi, aujourd’hui, j’annonce que nous allons doubler notre capacité de lutte contre les incendies. au cours de l’année prochaine, l’union européenne achètera dix avions amphibies légers et trois hélicoptères supplémentaires pour compléter notre flotte. voilà la solidarité européenne en action. honourable members, the last years have shown how much europe can achieve when it is united. after an unprecedented pandemic, our economic output overtook pre-crisis level in record time. we went from having no vaccines to securing over 4 billion of these life-saving vaccines for europeans and for the whole world. and in record time, we came up with sure – so that people could stay in their jobs even if their companies had run out of work. we were in the deepest recession since world war two and we achieved the fastest recovery since the post-war boom. and all that was possible because we all rallied behind a common recovery plan. next generation eu has been a boost of confidence for our economy. and its journey has only just begun. so far, eur 100 billion have been disbursed to member states. this means eur 700 billion still haven’t flown into our economy. next generation eu will guarantee a constant stream of investment to sustain jobs and growth. it means relief for our economy but, most importantly, it means renewal. it is financing new wind turbines and solar parks, high-speed trains and energy-saving renovations. we conceived next generation eu almost two years ago, and yet it is still exactly what europe needs today. so let’s stick to the plan and bring the money to the ground. it has to be delivered because it’s necessary now as investment and, honourable members, the future of our children needs both that we invest in sustainability but also that we invest sustainably. we must finance the transition to a digital and net-zero economy. and yet, we also have to acknowledge a new reality of higher public debt. we need fiscal rules that allow for strategic investment, while safeguarding fiscal sustainability; rules that are fit for the challenges of this decade. and, therefore, in october, we will come forward with new ideas for our economic governance. let me share a few basic principles with you. member states should have more flexibility on their debt-reduction path. but there should be more accountability on the delivery of what we have agreed on. there should be simpler rules that all can follow to open the space for strategic investments we needed and to give financial markets the confidence they need. so let us chart once again a joint way forward, with more freedom to invest – that’s necessary – more scrutiny on progress – what has been agreed has to be done – more ownership by member states and better results for citizens. so, in short, let’s rediscover the maastricht spirit: stability and growth can only go hand in hand. because, honourable members, as we embark on this transition in our economy, we must rely on the enduring values of the social market economy. it’s the beautiful, simple idea that europe’s greatest strength lies in each and every one of us. our social market economy encourages everyone to excel, but it also takes care of the fragility as human beings. it covers the big risks of life, like poverty, sickness, age. it rewards performance and guarantees protection. it opens opportunities but it also sets limits. and we need this today even more than ever. because the strength of our social market economy will drive the green and the digital transition. and our achilles heel for the small and medium enterprises are basically three things. it’s do we have an enabling business environment? it’s the question: do we have a workforce with the right skills? and do we have access to raw materials our industry needs? these will be the three crucial questions to answer right now to have a future with the model as i’ve described right now. we must, for our smes, remove the obstacles that still hold them back. they must be at the centre of this transformation, because they are the backbone of our industry and europe’s long history of industrial prowess. and they have always put their employees first, even, and especially, in times of crisis. but inflation and uncertainty are weighing especially hard on them. this is why we will put forward an sme relief package. it will include a proposal for a single set of tax rules for doing business in europe, called befit. it will make it easier to do business in our union: less red tape, better access to the dynamism of our continental market. and, honourable members, it is high time that we revise the late payment directive, because it is simply not fair that one in four bankruptcies – that’s 25% of all bankruptcies – are due to invoices not being paid on time. this can’t be possible, for millions of family businesses we have to revise this late payment directive, this will be a lifeline in troubled waters. meine sehr geehrten damen und herren abgeordnete! das zweite thema ist das große thema – mangel an personal. das ist eine große herausforderung für europa und europas unternehmen. die zahl der arbeitslosen ist so niedrig wie nie – 6,0 prozent, 6 prozent arbeitslosigkeit! das ist gut. aber gleichzeitig liegt die zahl der offenen stellen auf rekordniveau. lastwagenfahrer, kellner, flughafenpersonal, krankenpfleger, ingenieurinnen und ingenieure, it—technikerinnen und —techniker, von ungelernt bis universitätsabschluss – europa braucht sie alle! wir müssen viel stärker in aus- und weiterbildung investieren. dazu müssen wir mit den unternehmen zusammenarbeiten, denn sie wissen am besten, welche fachkräfte sie heute brauchen, aber auch, welche fachkräfte sie morgen brauchen. wir müssen diesen bedarf viel besser in einklang bringen mit den zielen und den wünschen der arbeitsuchenden selbst für ihren berufsweg. wir haben dieses wunderbare große instrument esf. aber wir brauchen auf der anderen seite auch eine struktur, dass diese gelder wirklich effektiv eingesetzt werden können. ein zweites ist auch wichtig: wir müssen gezielter fachkräfte aus dem ausland anwerben, die hier unternehmen und europas wachstum stärken. deshalb ist ein wichtiger schritt, ihre qualifikationen – die können was, diese menschen – in europa besser und schneller anzuerkennen. das ist die möglichkeit, europa attraktiver zu machen für alle, die etwas können und die sich einbringen wollen. deshalb schlage ich vor – das ist ein riesenthema, das kann man nicht hier abhandeln –, ich schlage vor, dass wir das jahr 2023 zum europäischen jahr der aus- und weiterbildung machen. lasst uns einen schwerpunkt darauf setzen. das ist jetzt der richtige schritt. meine damen und herren abgeordnete! der dritte punkt, der so wichtig ist für unsere kleinen und mittleren unternehmen und unsere industrie in europa: ganz unabhängig davon, ob wir über maßgeschneiderte chips für die virtuelle realität sprechen – haben wir viel gemacht in diesem parlament – oder über speicherzellen für solaranlagen: der zugang zu rohstoffen ist entscheidend für den erfolg unserer transformation zu einer nachhaltigen und digitalen wirtschaft. lithium und seltene erden werden bald wichtiger sein als öl und gas. allein unser bedarf an seltenen erden wird sich bis 2030 verfünffachen. einerseits ist es ein gutes zeichen, denn es zeigt, mit welchem tempo wir beim europäischen grünen deal vorangehen. das problem ist nur, dass derzeit ein einziges land fast komplett den gesamten markt beherrscht. wir müssen verhindern, dass wir erneut in eine abhängigkeit geraten, wie wir sie jetzt erleben bei gas und öl. dazu müssen viele schritte getan werden. an diesem punkt kommt auch unsere handelspolitik ins spiel. wir brauchen neue partnerschaften, denn geografisch gibt es diese rohmaterialien nicht nur an einem platz auf der erde. das heißt, wir brauchen neue partnerschaften, nicht nur um unsere wirtschaft zu stärken, sondern vor allen dingen auch, um unsere interessen und unsere werte global voranzubringen. mit diesen gleichgesinnten partnern können wir auch außerhalb unserer grenzen arbeitsstandards und umweltstandards verwirklichen und sichern. das heißt, wir brauchen neue beziehungen zu neuen verlässlichen partnern in wachstumsregionen. ich werde daher die abkommen mit chile, mexiko und neuseeland zur ratifizierung vorlegen, und wir treiben die verhandlungen mit partnern wie australien und indien voran. wir müssen aus den fehlern der vergangenheit lernen. but securing supplies is only a first step. the processing of these metals is just as critical. and today, china controls the global processing industry. almost 90% – 90% – of rare earths and 60% of lithium are processed in china. so we will identify strategic projects all along the supply chain, from extracting to refining, from processing to recycling. and we will build up strategic reserves where supply is at risk. this is why today i am announcing a european critical raw materials act. we know that this approach can work because remember, five years ago europe launched the batteries alliance. and soon two-thirds of the batteries we need we will produce here in europe. that’s a big success story. last year, i announced the european chips act and the first chips gigafactory will break ground in the coming months. so we now need to replicate this success for raw materials. and this is also why we will increase our financial participation in the important projects of common european interest, the so—called ipceis. and for the future, i will push to create a new european sovereignty fund, because we have to make sure that the future of the industry is made in europe. honourable members, as we look around at the state of the world today, it can often feel like there is a fading away of what once seemed so permanent. and in some ways the passing of queen elizabeth ii last week reminded us all of that. she is a legend. (applause) she was a constant throughout the turbulent and transforming events in the last 70 years. stoic and steadfast in her service. but more than anything, she always found the right words for every moment in time. from the calls she made to war evacuees in 1940 to her historic address during the pandemic. she spoke not only to the heart of her nation, but to the soul of the whole world. and when i think of the situation we are in today, her words at the height of the pandemic still resonate with me. she said: ‘we will succeed – and that success will belong to every one of us’. she always reminded us that our future is built on new ideas and founded in our oldest values. since the end of world war ii, we have pursued the promise of democracy and of the rule of law. and the nations of the world have built together an international system promoting peace and security, justice and economic progress. today, this is the very target of russian missiles. what we saw on the streets of bucha, in the scorched fields of grain and now in the gates of ukraine’s largest nuclear plant, is not only a violation of international rules, it is the deliberate attempt to discard them once and for all. that we have to know. and this watershed moment in global politics calls for a rethink of our foreign policy agenda. this is the time to invest in the power of our democracies. this work begins with a core group of our like-minded partners, our friends in every single democratic nation on the globe. we see the world with the same eyes. we share the same values. and we should mobilise our collective power to shape global goods. we should strive to expand the core of these democracies. the most immediate way to do this is to deepen our ties and strengthen democracies on our continent. this starts with those that are already on the path to our union. we must be at their side by every step and every day, because the path towards strong democracies and the path towards our union are one and the same. and so i want the people of the western balkans, ukraine, moldova and georgia to know – and i think i speak in the name of this noble house – you are part of our family. you are the future of our union and in our union. and our union is not complete without you. this has to be the message. (applause) and we have seen that there is a need to reach out to other countries of europe beyond the accession process. this is why i support the call for european political community, and we will set out our ideas to the european council. but our future also depends on our ability to engage beyond the core of our democratic partners. countries near and far share an interest in working with us on the greatest challenges of this century, such as climate change and digitalisation. and this is the main idea behind global gateway, the investment plan i announced last year right at this place. it is already delivering on the ground. together with our african partners we’re building two factories in rwanda and senegal to manufacture mrna vaccines. so they will be made in africa, for africa, with world-class technology. and we are now replicating this approach across latin america as a part of a larger engagement strategy that has to pick up now urgently. all this requires investment on a global scale. so we will team up with our friends in the united states and our friends in the g7 partners to make this happen. in this spirit, president biden and i will convene a leaders meeting to review and announce implementation projects for this investment. honourable members, this is part of our work of strengthening our democracies. but we should not lose sight of the way foreign autocrats are targeting our own countries. foreign entities are funding institutions and institutes that undermine our values. the disinformation is spreading from the internet into the halls of our universities. earlier this year, the university of amsterdam shut down an allegedly independent research centre which was actually funded by chinese entities. and this centre was publishing so-called research on human rights, dismissing the evidence of forced labour camps for uyghurs as ‘rumours’. these lies are toxic for our democracies. and let’s think about this. we introduced legislation to screen foreign direct investment in our companies for security reasons. that’s correct. that’s good that we did it. but if we do that for our economy, shouldn’t we do the same for our values? we need to better shield ourselves from online interference. and this is why we will present a defence of democracy pact. it will bring forward covert foreign influence. it will shed the light on shady funding. we will not allow any autocracy’s trojan horses to attack our democracies from within. for more than 70 years, our continent has marched towards democracy. but the gains of our long journey are not as short. and many of us have taken democracy for granted for too long. especially those who, like me, who have never experienced what it means to live under the fist of an authoritarian regime. today we all see that we must fight for our democracies every single day, every single minute. we must protect them both from the external threats they face, but also from the vice that corrodes them from within. it is my commission’s duty and the most noble role to protect the rule of law. so let me assure you, we will keep insisting on judicial independence, and we will make sure that we protect our budget through the conditionality mechanism. (applause)and today i would like to focus on corruption with all its faces. the face of foreign agents trying to influence our political system. the face of shady companies or foundations abusing public money. if we want to be credible when we ask candidate countries to strengthen their democracies, we must also eradicate corruption at home. (applause)and this is why in the coming year, the commission will present measures to update our legislative framework for fighting corruption. we will raise standards on offences such as illicit enrichment, trafficking in influence and abuse of power beyond the more classic offenses such as bribery. and we will also propose to include corruption in our human rights sanctions regime, our new tool to protect our values abroad. (applause) honourable members, our founders only meant to lay the first stone of this democracy. they always thought that future generations would complete their work. and that’s true, we have to do that. it’s an ongoing process. ‘democracy has not gone out of fashion, but it must update itself in order to keep improving people’s lives’. you will remember these words. these are the words of our friend david sassoli – a great european – democracy has not gone out of fashion, but it must update itself in order to keep improving people’s lives. david sassoli thought that europe should always look for new horizons. and through the adversity of these times, we have started to see what our new horizon might be. a braver union, closer to its people in times of needs. bolder in responding to historic challenges and the daily concerns of our europeans. and to walk at their side when they deal with the big trials of life. this is why the conference on the future of europe was so important. it was a sneak peek of a different kind of citizens’ engagement, well beyond election day. and after europe listened to its citizens’ voice, we now need to deliver. the citizens’ panels that were central to the conference will now become a regular feature of our democratic life. and in the letter of intent that i have sent today to president metsola and prime minister fiala, i have outlined a number of proposals for the year ahead that stem from the conference on the future. they include, for example, a new initiative on mental health. we should take much better care of our friends and partners and beloved ones, and how many who are burdened with anxiety and who are lost. appropriate, accessible – accessible, that’s so important – and affordable support can be life-saving. we know that this support is not there today – accessible, affordable and appropriate support. so we have to make sure with proposals on mental health that we really improve in this subject. it is for some of our fellow europeans life-saving. (applause) honourable members, democratic institutions must constantly gain and regain the citizens’ trust. just like europeans did when millions of ukrainians came knocking on their door. what we saw was and is europe at its best. a union of determination and solidarity. but this determination and drive for solidarity is still missing in our migration debate. our actions towards ukrainian refugees must not be an exception. (applause)they can be a blueprint for going forward. we need fair and quick procedures, a system that is crisis-proof and quick to deploy, and a permanent and legally binding mechanism that ensures solidarity. and at the same time, we need effective control of our external borders in line with the respect of fundamental rights. i want a europe that manages migration with dignity and respect. i want a europe where all member states take responsibility for the challenges we all share. i want a europe that shows solidarity to all member states. we have progress on the pact. we now have the roadmap, and we now need the political will to move forward and to match. honourable members, three weeks ago i had an incredible opportunity of joining 1 500 young people from all over europe and all over the world that gathered in taizé. they have very different views. they come from very different countries. they speak different languages. they have different backgrounds. and yet, there’s something that connects them. they share a set of values and ideals. they believe in these values. they are determined to reach them. they are passionate about something that is larger than themselves. and this generation is a phenomenal generation. it’s a generation of dreamers and makers. and in my last state of the union, i told you that i would like europe to look more like these young people. we should put their aspirations at the heart of everything we do. and the place for this is in our founding treaties. every action that our union takes should be inspired by a very simple principle – that we should do no harm to our children’s future and that we should leave the world a better place for the next generation. and therefore, honourable members, i believe that it is time to enshrine solidarity between generations in our treaties. it is time to renew the european promise. and we also need to improve the way we do things and the way we decide things. some might say this is not the right time, but if we are serious about preparing for the world of tomorrow, we must be able to act on the things that matter the most for people. and as we are serious about a larger union, we also have to be serious about reform. so as this parliament has called for, i believe the moment has arrived for a european convention. (applause) honourable members, they say ‘light shines brightest in the dark’. and that was certainly true for the women and the children fleeing russia’s bombs. they fled a country at war, filled with sadness for what they had left behind and fear for what may lie ahead. but they were received with open hearts and open arms by many, many citizens like magdalena and agnieszka. two selfless young women from poland. as soon as they heard about trains full of refugees, they rushed to the warsaw central station. they started to organise. they set up a tent to assist as many people as possible. they reached out to supermarket chains for food and to local authorities to organise buses, to hospitality centres. in a matter of days they gathered 3 000 volunteers to welcome refugees 24/7. honourable members, magdalena and agnieszka are here with us today. please stand up. (applause)magdalena, stand up. stand up. (prolonged applause)their story is about everything our union stands and strives for. it is a story of heart, character and solidarity. they showed everyone what europeans can achieve when we rally around a common cause. this is europe’s spirit, a union that stands strong together. a union that prevails together. long live europe. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president of the european parliament, madam president of the european commission, madam zelenska, czech presidency, dear colleagues, last week the hemicycle in brussels was full of young people. we organised this epp group 4 youth week at the beginning of the autumn session and during the discussion, eva maydell, a young colleague of ours, spoke about a moving encounter during summer. she was in bulgaria, at a supermarket checkout, and there was a young lady. she didn’t speak bulgarian very well. she talked with her and she was a ukraine refugee. young, talented, she was excited to start her university studies and then war, fleeing, losing loved ones, she was from mariupol and ending up in uncertainty. that is the brutal reality of putin’s war. and, on the other hand, in my constituency, i received a letter from a small bakery: after decades of baking bavarian bread, he wrote to me saying that he cannot survive with the high energy costs. the baker told me, ‘putin is a war criminal, no doubt about this, but how can i survive?’. these two stories mark the challenge in front of us, and our epp answer is: we need a winter of solidarity. solidarity, first of all, with ukraine. more weapons, more money, more solidarity. putin must lose; ukraine must win. great news from ukraine is that they are pushing back the russian troops from their soil. and, madam zelenska, we admire what your soldiers are doing there on the front line. thank you for this. and dear friends, solidarity among europeans, nobody left behind. we care for the poor in our societies and help our economies, especially the smes. crisis times means now, leadership, and the epp supports the proposal of the commission presented today on support for ukraine but also to give an answer on the soaring energy prices. but there is more to do. the markets are obviously speculating against european solidarity when winter will really be hard. let us be concrete. it is not normal in a market that scholz has to call macron to open a gas pipeline and we will be more independent if spain would be better connected to the european gas market. if it is true that the winter will be hard, then we must use all our energy resources. germany cannot stop producing nuclear electricity and, on the other hand, ask the dutch to ask for gas solidarity. that’s not the case. and let’s be honest, it was a lost summer. the epp has been asking for an extraordinary council meeting to give certainty, to structure things, to show everyone that we are united and you cannot split up europe. and the signal would have had already lowered the prices. people are paying because politics was and is for the moment, among member states, not strong enough. and on inflation – not only driven by energy, first, it is an ecb task that’s clear – i think we also can contribute. one example, we have a global food crisis, and that is also increasing the prices for our citizens. and the commission is now presenting new regulations, which will limit food production in europe and produce more bureaucratic burden for our farmers. for new legislation, the commission promised the principle of ‘one in and one out’. if we continue like this, then at the end of the mandate we will arrive to ‘five in and only one out’. we have war in europe and parts of the brussels community are continuing to make new laws and new burdens as if nothing has happened. that’s why we as the epp group are asking for a moratorium on new legislation. let our businesses, especially the smes, do their work without burdening them. and for creating growth and, having a recession now in mind, the epp stand for creating a union of democratic economies on a global level. europe is a trading continent and if we want to limit our dependency on the autocracies, on china and others, and that is a lesson we learned out of the russian gas war, then we must speed up on trade deals with other democracies. and, as epp, we always did so, but i just want to remind ourselves about the ceta debate in this house where the left, greens and part of the socialists, were are opposing doing a trade deal with canada. canada, dear friends! you frightened europeans with misleading arguments and even with lies. and, until now, scholz and macron are not ready to ratify ceta at national level. but they are great at doing pictures with trudeau. that is not serious, dear friends. that is not serious. and about democracies, yes, madam president, you spoke about defending the rule of law and with you as commission president – and i have to say, i was in poland with friends like donald tusk – we as the epp, we are fighting for rule of law, you stopped the money as epp president of the commission to poland and hungary. that’s why we are very, very proud about this. the rule of law must be judged and based on clear criteria and fair procedure. it must be blind like justice without looking at party books. speaking about democracies, i have to come back to the energy proposals. and madam president, we spoke about this, you have our full support on the content but on the procedure, i have to say, we have to respect the european parliament as a people’s chamber. can you imagine a windfall tax and a price cap being decided at national level without a vote in the national parliament? we would call this a democratic problem. but now we have proposals on the table, we are doing this in europe and that should not be the new normal at european level. so decisions without the european parliament should not be the new normal in europe. and that is why please consider again the legal basis for the proposals on the table. the epp stands for a democratic europe and that means a europe where all legislation is voted in this chamber. finally, during the covid-19 crisis, we were ready for doing bigger steps. the crrf proposed by ursula von der leyen is bigger than the marshall plan was. so we changed the architecture of europe. that was great. but today, war is back in europe. there was no council meeting on coordinating our defence activities, only votes. there is no initiative to stop a unanimous vote on foreign affairs, only a speech from chancellor scholz in prague. no convention to strengthen the european democracy requested by this chamber and the conference for the future of europe, only, i have to say, campaigning and campaigning in paris. the commission has to launch now until december a european defence action plan as a concrete initiative in this field to invest together to build up a european missile defence system and a cyber brigade to make europe stronger on this and we need – and thanks for your clear statement – a convention now. the epp stands for a more ambitious europe. the times of sunday speeches are over. europe will not be saved by university pulpit speeches but by political leadership. and the ukraine refugee in bulgaria and my baker, they believe in this and they understand this. that’s why leadership and leadership now.
in the name of the s&d group, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking magdalena and agnieszka for their commitment and solidarity, but above all because you are the clear example of the history of europe: a europe that has always welcomed people, a europe that has opened its arms to those fleeing war and hunger, a europe that has wanted to have the principle of solidarity as one of its values, a europe that has mixed together, a europe of mixed races, a europe that has made us rich and diverse and of which we are very proud. thank you very much. it is difficult to analyse the state of the union without repeating what we have been saying for a long time, and that is that we face historical challenges: we have done so with the covid-19 pandemic and we are doing so now, in the face of this war started by vladimir putin that threatens our values and the international balance. that is why it is so important that we remain united in reinforcing our commitment to the freedom and integrity of ukraine and at the same time act with speed, ambition and solidarity to mitigate the economic and social effects of this war: all you have to do is go to the supermarket and see that the shopping basket is getting more expensive every day. measures have been taken to contain inflation, but food and fuel prices seem to be holding up, and yes, the european central bank has raised the price of money, but that is also going to mean that mortgages are going to go up and cost more, not to mention the heating bill. ladies and gentlemen, this is the state of our union, let us be clear; let us be clear, but not pessimistic or catastrophistic, because that is what we are here for, to solve it, to provide solutions, which there are; it is another thing to have the will to put them into practice. as always, crises highlight our weaknesses, but they also show us where we need to make a difference: strengthening social policies, energy market reforms, taxation and economic governance reforms, and accelerating the green transition so that we do not regret having arrived too late. our commitment to the ukrainian people is firm, but to secure the support of the european citizenship we must not only celebrate the military victories - which are very good - but we must also put ourselves in the shoes of those who are suffering the consequences of this war, and also here in the union, because if we do not do this, we will see not only the rejection of the war but also the growth of right-wing populism. president von der leyen, just as we were loyal partners in the face of the pandemic, we will be loyal partners now in facing this crisis and avoiding a recession. we are late, but i am glad that at last there has been a reaction and that what the socialist and democratic group has been saying for a long time has been heard: we must put a cap on the price of gas and help families and businesses to pay the bill, and we can do that with a share of the extraordinary profits of the energy companies; everyone must shrug their shoulders because it is not fair that while some people are struggling to make ends meet, others are becoming millionaires at the expense of the suffering of families. we are not the navel of the world: i have just returned from latin america, which should be a priority for the union and has not been so far. i am glad to hear mrs von der leyen mention this, because it shows the need for greater cooperation between us: it is a natural ally for that global order. we must be more present and not leave that space to other powers. as i said, i am also concerned that the extreme right is growing in this situation, and therefore we must act firmly in defence of the rule of law: the commission, mrs von der leyen, is the guarantor of the principles and the treaties and must therefore act clearly and firmly in this matter. finally, leaving institutional questions aside, i would like to talk about the political situation we find ourselves in: i am saddened to have to say this here, but the state of our democracy, at this historic moment, seems to me as fragile as that of our economy. we are faced with ghosts that we thought were overcome: some member states have become autocracies, like orbán's hungary, and in others pro-fascist parties may win elections: it is worrying and dangerous. mr weber, gentlemen of the european people's party, i call on you to reconsider your role in the european project, because after the second world war the founders of christian democracy understood that the best form of patriotism was to pursue the common interest of the european union as a whole with the help of social democracy, and not exclusive nationalism. i see that you are losing that path, normalizing and supporting the entry of the far right into the institutions: i hope you will rectify this. i hope they will correct it because we have a shared responsibility: we are on time and europe is waiting for us.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear commission president and dear ms zelenska, it is a big honour to have you here with us today and your presence reminds us that while we talk a lot about the problems that we’re facing in the eu, the real consequences of this war of aggression of putin are carried by the people in ukraine. a brutal invasion led against the peaceful people of ukraine simply because they chose to live in freedom and democracy. putin cannot live with the fact that people live in liberty with human and civil rights and that nations work together peacefully. freedom and democracy – principles the eu was founded on – are the biggest threats to him. all together, we must face this atrocious aggression with determination and with courage, just as ukraine is showing us. europe needs to support and continue to support ukraine in their fight for peace and self-determination and even scale up those efforts. the past days have shown that the ukrainian people are able to resist the attack. and it is now that europe needs to stand by their side, by your side. while ukraine suffers most from the attack, there are also consequences for the eu. we must be prepared for tough times ahead. to do that, we must show solidarity to the outside but also to the inside by ensuring that the costs and consequences are carried by the stronger shoulders in our society. with skyrocketing energy and food prices, we must act. we know that many citizens in our union are fearful of what the winter will bring. fearful of being unable to heat their homes, feed their children, pay their bills. we cannot turn a blind eye to the situation of the most vulnerable people in our union. already now, every fifth person in the eu lives in poverty, and the scale of the increase in prices means that many more households will be at risk. it is our duty to ensure that people who are struggling get support and that the greed and profits of a few don’t lead to the misery of many. so let’s take bold policy steps to make sure that everyone gets through these tough times. and i welcome the commission president’s proposal to skim off windfall profits from energy companies, something that we as the greens/efa group have been calling for since the beginning of this crisis. the only true way to end our energy dependency is, on the one hand, to use less energy and, on the other hand, to produce more renewable energy. sun and wind provide us with much more power than we could ever possibly use. so let’s profit from that. fossil fuels have been a driver for ecological disaster and for dangerous dependency. renewables are the true catalyst for peace, security and stability. now is the time to scale up investments in renewables, to put solar panels on every roof, insulate buildings, and make sure sun and wind carry us into a new era of sustainable and affordable european energy production. and let’s make no mistake, commission president and colleagues, the climate crisis is probably the biggest political test for our generation. all over europe, we experience the devastation the climate crisis is bringing and will bring to our continent and to the world. this summer, massive droughts and heatwaves paved the way for wildfires, killing a substantial amount of our harvest as well, and led to thousands of deaths that came prematurely. the cost of non-action is immense. it is time to act and to quickly build a brighter, cleaner future to capitalise on the enormous potential that the green transition brings in terms of sustainable economic development, well-paying and future-proofed jobs, cleaner air and a better quality of life for our citizens. dear colleagues, dear commission president, putin’s war against ukraine is also targeted at our eu values and at democracy. in order to stand strong against opponents and threats, we have to defend those values within the eu and without exception. i am grateful for your strong words on the rule of law, commission president, however, we have heard very promising words before. what we are lacking is action. thanks to parliament, we have instruments at hand, but now they need to be used, including the rule of law conditionality mechanism. dear commission president, please respect the conditionality instrument and the political will of this parliament. no money should be given to the governments of poland and hungary unless they clearly return to the path of rule of law. and i want to tell our dear colleagues from the epp and especially you, mr weber, to be careful with whom we form partnerships. looking at italy, you are playing a risky game, with democracy and with our shared values, just for power. a game that could backfire on all of us. a group that claims to be part of the democratic majority should not partner with people who wear putin-fancier shirts nor parties with fascist logos. not in italy, not in spain, not in sweden. not in the epp. nowhere and never. and, it is a bit awkward that i say this as a green, but the centre right has a very important role to play in europe and part of this, together with all of us, is to ward off the extreme right. if you open the door to them, you are doing a big, big disservice to europe but i believe also to your own party. dear commission president and dear colleagues, yes, the state of the union is full of challenges stemming from the war in ukraine to the rule of law to the climate crisis. we are facing a big test. however, i am convinced that the eu has the strength to face these challenges if we work together. work together towards new energy independence, a climate-neutral continent and, maybe most importantly, a european union that deserves and maintains the trust of our european citizens, founded on values, founded on solidarity.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the house, mrs zelenska, your testimony here today is important and it is important that you have demonstrated once again today that this house and these institutions will continue to support the ukrainian people across the board against russian aggression. before i go into the substance of the arguments raised by president von der leyen, i would like to make a suggestion to our green and socialist friends who, for lack of original ideas, continue to shout at the fascist threat in europe: well, i suggest you talk to the citizens, to the merchants, to the businesses and you will find that none of them are worried about a fascist threat, but rather they are worried about having to bear the damage of years of devastating and destructive policies carried out by these groups in europe. we have heard a good speech on what president van der leyen said, but unfortunately, mr president, it remains a speech, it remains words. you have announced the measures which the commission will propose to deal with a dramatic situation such as this continent has never experienced before. but these measures - let me say this - are far from being sufficient to be able to bring any real help to those who are suffering today, through no fault of their own, from a situation which - i repeat - is tragic. companies are closing, production is halting, shops are closing and citizens are no longer able to cope with the cost of living which is rising exponentially across europe. and it is true, as you have said, that the main fault for this lies not with europe but with those who carried out an unjustified aggression. but from 24 february onwards europe has a responsibility to protect its citizens from the consequences that we could have imagined and that we knew from the beginning would be there. and europe's fault was that it did not act in time. you reminded us a few days ago that democracy has a cost: it's true, if we want democracy there are processes that we have to endure, there is a dialogue, there is a confrontation and then things are done. but this must not be a justification for inaction and delay, which unfortunately falls to the responsibility of some european institutions. the gas price ceiling, which is the only measure that can help citizens and businesses in any way against this crisis we are experiencing, is still arbitrary, still under discussion, still in a debate and a dialectic that does not give us hope and does not give hope to those who are suffering too obviously in the face of this crisis. and in relation to this cry for help, this call for concrete and rapid action in the face of a critical situation, i also have another reflection, more internal to the mechanisms of the european union and the work that the european commission has carried out since 2019. in my country, there's a saying that only fools and idiots don't change their minds. so i think the european commission should take that as a statement and look at what's proposed, at the pillars of what the 2019 agenda was, and understand that some things need to be revised. the world of 2019, when these rules and these plans were thought out, is a world that has totally changed, it's a world that we know will no longer exist. the time lances will not return. we need europe and the commission to look pragmatically at the changed situation and, in a forward-looking way, to admit that there are different conditions and that therefore certain things are not only no longer feasible but have not helped to protect the climate or to achieve the industrial and socioeconomic transition that this continent desperately needs today.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, madam president von der leyen, ladies and gentlemen, i too, on behalf of the conservative group, would like to extend my greetings, my welcome and my full support to mrs zelenska and to reiterate on this occasion how useful and essential it is for this house to send a clear message of full support for ukraine. your state of the union speech this year is certainly the most difficult speech in recent years, because the context we're in is certainly a very complex context, not just because of what's happening these days but because we're coming from a difficult time, first the pandemic and then the outbreak of war. and it is important - it is not formal but it is substantial - to express clearly, also and especially in this circumstance, a strong condemnation of russia's action, of russia's behaviour; the european union is ready to express its full support and solidarity, including practical and concrete support, to ukraine in the day-to-day action of the governments and of this european institution. at the same time, it is equally important to work so that europe is able to build a different position than in the past on defence and foreign policy, especially within the atlantic alliance, where the supply chain, the relationship and the partnership with european countries must be strengthened. but it is clear that all this leads us today to express an assessment which cannot but be full support for a line which is not simple but which must be pursued with force, that is support for sanctions, because only with sanctions can these results be achieved and such action on the subject of sanctions is decisive also in relation to the need, however, to reverse action from the point of view of everyday life. and that's where unity and timeliness come in. we need unity, mr von der leyen, not façade unity, but real unity within the european context. it is necessary to be able to deal with two major issues, that of energy and that of interventions for households and businesses, in order to be able to sustain the crisis we are facing today. and it is clear that in this context we need clear answers: the gas price ceiling is one of these, as is the decoupling of gas and energy prices. you made a brave choice. i want to give you a concrete example to explain the meaning of the speculation that is taking place and the need to intervene. we have just had a european council of energy ministers on 9 september, and they have given a very positive and clear signal. immediately afterwards, on 12 september, the gas price fell below eur 200, whereas on 26 august it was above eur 330. in recent days, at this hour, the price of gas has been rising, because the signal coming from the european institutions is not positive. that is why we need a strong response, that is why all the member states must really be aware of the difficulty we face. and on this point, we also need timeliness because all the planning, from the cohesion planning - i think of the 2021-2027 planning - to the pnrr, comes at the price of having had a context analysis, in their choices, which is prior to the outbreak of the war. we must have more flexibility in the use of these resources and at the same time work with conviction to bring about a real unity in the european context. i have listened to the statements made by the chairmen of the other groups. i also understand the need to debate the national elections in the various countries. but this is not the way. i also thank the two girls who took in the ukrainian refugees; they're two girls who certainly set a good example. but let me say that the good example also comes from all those governments and countries, starting with poland, which have opened their arms and have given an exceptional operational demonstration of welcome when it came to welcoming refugees fleeing from ukraine. and then we must be aware that unity cannot be sought here, by going to the clash; the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. i say to our colleagues: we will probably work together in the coming months on common fronts, in the general interest, and we don't need this polemic, we don't need this confrontation. it takes a sense of maturity and responsibility; we need a serious europe which can work with national governments to see the way forward. in this context i hope that there can be a correct approach. democracy, you see, is not when you like it, it's not when voters vote the way you say they will. democracy is always, it's when the voters vote. and all of us together, whether we win or lose, we must respect the mandate of the citizens. only then will we be able to build a serious, credible europe that can meet the challenges of the future.
madam president, please. my fellow officers! first of all, let me make a comment on the remarks made by the green group. in hungary, the hungarian parties of the socialists and democrats, the hungarian parties of the liberals and the hungarian parties of the greens have for years been in a close political and electoral alliance with an anti-semitic and szalon-nazi party, jobbik. so if you object to working with extremist political forces, you should first sweep your own house. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. we hungarians, as sons of a nation that suffered both german and soviet occupation, know exactly what it is to fight for independence against aggression. as a hungarian jewish child of holocaust survivors, i know exactly what the inhuman devastation of war is. we're all on the side of the attacked. when the sanctions were adopted at the beginning of the summer, the european commission promised that they would bring russia to its knees. they promised that the sanctions would be a slap in the face for russia, not for the people of europe. they promised sanctions would end the war. well, the war is still going on, and the energy bills of the people of europe are skyrocketing. meanwhile, russia has seen unprecedented revenues from rising energy prices. since the sanctions were imposed, inflation has been falling, european people have become poorer, and russia has become richer. europe is facing crisis and energy shortages. madam president, this is not what the commission promised when it imposed the sanctions.
president of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much and first of all, i want to thank all the presidents of the groups for the broad coalition supporting the proposals of solidarity for the vulnerable households and companies. and yes, we know time is of the essence. but when i look at madam aubry, the bills you have shown to us – yes in french, you would say ils sont insupportables. this is right. but you know what? send those bills to moscow. that’s where they belong to, that’s where the source is. i have a plea to this parliament. we all, you all rightly so, say: speed, speed, speed. time is of the essence. you’ve done phenomenal things with the digital covid certificate. please do that again with repowereu, because you are all – rightly so – calling for investment for renewables, also cross-border projects. here there are more than eur 300 billion that could be invested in cross-border projects. you are calling for the permitting process, that it has to be sped up. well, the permitting process, the reform is in repowereu. you are calling for stabilising the ets prices. it’s in repowereu, and eur 20 billion fresh money. so please speed up. i have the same call and plea to the european council and the member states: please speed up because we really need you to do again a miracle like in the covid times. now, stéphane séjourné, you’re right, we must call out putin’s lies. and i want to look at the issue of food. nothing, nothing in our sanctions prevents russia from exporting food and fertilisers to vulnerable countries. we have to say that over and over again because it’s the truth. and russia just says the opposite, which is a lie. russia has blocked ukrainian harbours, a very simple truth. and our solidarity lanes, together with the un deal – that was really helpful – have now enabled that more than 10 million tonnes of grains have left ukraine. today, 30% of ukraine’s grain exports are going to low and middle income countries in africa, middle east and asia. so it’s ukraine’s grain that has made prices drop again. prices for maize and wheat have decreased by 20%. they are almost back to pre-war levels. so, we should be very clear in our messaging. the fact is that putin has created the food crisis. europe and the united nations are working to put an end to that. that’s the truth. and on agriculture: europe is a top agri-food producer and exporter. and that’s a great pride. and it gives a special responsibility in times when so many countries simply don’t have enough food. this is why, as you know, we have decided to allow the cultivation of any crops on set-aside land for the next harvesting season. we know that farmers are also coping with high prices for energy and for fertilisers. and, therefore, less than a month into the war, we triggered for the very first time the crisis reserve under the common agricultural policy. this frees up to eur 500 million for the most effected farming sectors, and member states can top this up with another eur 1.4 billion for european rural development funds. keep in mind, member states can also use the revenues from the solidarity contribution we just put on the table as a proposal of the oil and gas companies to support fertiliser production in europe. but finally – and again, this goes for the whole energy crisis – there’s one simple truth that applies to both energy and fertilisers: the more we save, the less we pay. and the less fossil fuel based fertilisers we use, the less dependent we are on fossil fuel imports. in the last month, globally, but also across europe, each and every one of us felt more clearly than ever before the immense impact of the global climate crisis. and you’ve mentioned it all, the heat records, the heavy rain events, the floods, the devastating droughts destroying crops and livelihoods. they urge us to move more swiftly than ever together. we need a resilient and sustainable agriculture that preserves biodiversity and, above all, the healthy, fertile soil. and that can cushion all the aforementioned disasters. therefore, our discussions on chemical pesticides and mineral fertilisers are crucial, using the natural resources entrusted to us in a careful and preserving way.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, president von der leyen, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen. let me start by thanking you, president von der leyen, on behalf of the council, for your cooperation and leadership in these uncertain and challenging times that europe is witnessing since russia launched its war of aggression against ukraine and its people. russia is fighting not only against ukraine, but also against our values and principles. for this reason, the czech presidency will never cease to support ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, using all the means at the eu's disposal, which includes, inter alia, providing all the political, military, economic and humanitarian assistance that ukraine may need. the challenges we face are manifold and their combined impacts are taking a high toll on our populations, especially the most vulnerable and on our economies. these challenges also present risks for our ambitious eu agenda. we need to address the immediate challenges while keeping our long-term goal goals very much in mind. it’s no easy task. president von der leyen, you have given us a lot of food for thought. you have addressed the most pressing issues that require our full collective attention, and the council will no doubt give its political support to meeting these objectives. president von der leyen, in a number of your previous speeches, you referred to czech president václav havel, and i thank you for that. and indeed, as václav havel once said, the task ahead of europe deserves careful and thorough reflection. madam president, you can count on our presidency to help you rethink, rebuild and repower europe. addressing this hemicycle in july, prime minister fiala outlined our priorities, which largely align with yours. the most urgent tasks are to address the various dimensions of the war on ukraine, bring genuine energy security, strengthen europe's defence capabilities, secure the strategic resilience of the eu economy, and ensure the resilience of our democratic institutions. energy security and mitigating high energy prices is our most pressing task. i welcome that the commission is today following up with its proposals on some of the measures discussed by the council last week. we are determined to work around the clock on these proposals and reach an agreement among the member states at the next meeting of energy ministers scheduled for 30 september. however, the situation we are facing is very difficult and complex: a european response is necessary. therefore, we welcome the commission's intention to come up with further measures in the following weeks. all of this we have to keep in mind, while not forgetting about our long-term goals, namely the green and digital transitions. and of course, we will also follow up on the recommendations of the conference on the future of europe. the council will do its utmost to progress at pace on the many initiatives already on the table and on the new ones to come. finally, we welcome the commission's letter of intent, which the council will discuss next week, together with the annual foresight report. we look forward to continuing the dialogue among the three institutions on our common priorities for the next year. the council will then, in november, discuss the new commission work programme with a view to the next joint declaration on legislative priorities. our joint programming can help us and our three institutions achieve results in a focused and targeted way. let me reaffirm the council's commitment to this process, and i assure you that the presidency will continue to be a determined and sincere partner.
madam president, president von der leyen, dear colleagues, we are all witnessing this year the people of ukraine standing up for european values. we admire their resistance, their fighting spirit and we are inspired by this here in the european parliament, and millions of citizens are inspired across the european union. wanting to live in freedom, in democracy, deciding one’s own future, this means defending european values. ukraine has a european path. we here in the european parliament are convinced of this. we have done all we could for the people of ukraine since the beginning of the crisis, and we will continue to do so. this is why, president von der leyen, long before eu accession will be possible, we will support what you have presented today on working towards bringing ukraine closer to the single market of the european union, because that means freedom of movement for people, for goods, for services, for capital. it will mean the european union and ukraine growing closer together, more possibilities to rebuild ukraine and to work to develop ukraine. we shall support this initiative, firstly. secondly, more measures and quicker measures to support citizens in the european union, capping energy prices, including prices on imported russian gas, using existing funds for energy interconnectivity, for energy efficiency, for reducing dependency, and for investing in renewables. this is what repowereu is about. we are finalising, president and dear colleagues working in the european parliament, to make sure that money flows where it is needed fast. but, president von der leyen, as you have announced new measures today, we shall also work together on revising the budget of the european union. we want to do more. we need to make sure that in all of those areas we have money. to conclude, madam president, we also have a duty to make the european union safer. we have enlarged nato because finland and sweden wanted to join and because they fulfilled the criteria. we should do the same for the schengen area. for many years, romania and bulgaria are fulfilling the conditions and croatia now fulfils them as well. we in the parliament have a clear position. the commission has a clear position. we shall be united in pushing the council to doing this because enlarging schengen means more security for all of us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing another serious crisis in europe which is having a serious impact on our households and our businesses, which are being squeezed by energy prices and inflation. as with the pandemic, we cannot stand by and watch as businesses close and families become impoverished. in the most difficult moments, europe needs to be europe to the core, to put the common european interest above all else, in spite of those who, even when the pandemic hit hard, in the name of sovereignist ideology have always obstructed joint solidarity decisions and those who, even today in my country, run for office saying that the "package" of a more united, more solid and more solid europe must end, unless they then come here and accuse europe of immobility and inertia. i have heard clear words from you today, president von der leyen, about the future of the union, about the challenges we face, about the measures needed now to tackle the crisis, starting with the reform of the entire energy market and new resources for households and businesses. but act with courage. and on the energy front, let us waste no more time in putting a ceiling on the price of gas, the only measure capable of stopping this odious speculation in progress. "europe is a community of destiny or it is not europe". the commission has already made a number of proposals. our unity is our true strength; our divisions, our doom. but everybody remembers it in here.
madam president, confronted with a russian invasion of ukraine, the eu has provided a firm and united response. we have rightly decided to stand with the ukrainian people in the face of this criminal aggression. we did the right thing. we have to be with those defending democracy, freedom and ultimately what we like to call the european values. but it should be remembered, as you did in your speech, that within our european union, these same values cannot at all times and in all places be taken for granted either. that here too, it is necessary to defend every day respect for fundamental rights and democracy, although luckily in our case, not with a force of arms, because we do indeed have problems in this regard, and not all of them are caused by threats coming from the outside. while in some member states we are spied on by the hacking of our phones – as has happened to me and other colleagues in this parliament. we have a serious problem when political and judicial abuses committed in member states must be called out by international organisations as it recently happened to spain. we have a problem when the rule of law continues to deteriorate in some member states and when we don’t really use the mechanism to correct that situation, we also have a problem. so, madam von der leyen, i kindly ask you for more courage to protect, defend and improve the state of democracy and the respect for fundamental rights in our union.
i am not going to go into that. madam president, i would like to thank you. i look with great seriousness and great concern at the times in which we live. in my country, sweden, we are likely to have a government based on a right-wing nationalist and racist party. at the end of the year, my country, sweden, will take over the presidency of the european union. what will it mean for eu climate policy to be dependent on climate deniers? what will it mean for the eu's democracy and rule of law policy that the government of the eu presidency is leaning on a gang that cannot choose between macron and putin on a straightforward issue? i am not a fan of macron, but i can choose democracy every time i am faced with such a question. i expect you, madam president, and the commission to do more to stop far-right and authoritarian forces in europe. it is necessary for the climate, for democracy and for a common future. we on the left will do everything we can. we demand a climate policy that listens to the scientists, not the climate deniers. we will continue to demand tough action against poland and hungary, which are trampling on everything that is democracy and the rule of law. free media, independent courts, a vibrant civil society - this is not a luxury, but a prerequisite here in europe. we will continue to stand up for women's rights to abortion, to have control over our own bodies. we will stand up for the rights of lgbtq people. that a candidate country, namely serbia, is now trying to ban a pride march is simply unacceptable! russia's war against ukraine - this terrible war - also demands something of us. of course we have to invest in renewables and become independent of putin, but we also have to rebuild our energy market. i welcome the proposals you have put forward but we shall see when they are on the table. we need to tax excess profits a lot harder than you've said here today. there's no time to lose. then i really mean no time to lose. i expect that you, unlike the swedish right, will not lean on extreme right-wing forces. then it's all over. then we can't stand up for the climate. then we cannot stand up for democratic rights. we cannot then stand up for welfare, and we cannot stand up for what we need to build a sustainable europe. this is it. we don't have time to waste.
madam president, madam president von der leyen, ladies and gentlemen, if the iconic image of the european union during the pandemic was the dramatic one of wards full of covid patients, this is the one we have today. this is the energy bill received by a small businessman in liguria for the month of august: eur 5 600 compared with eur 1 700 last year. more than tripled. and because of this drought, many businesses have already shut down, many will be forced to do so, and millions of families will not be able to make ends meet. we cannot respond to these people with unproductive verticals, with words and promises: facts are needed! president von der leyen, do you remember your meetings with president conte? so that's the model you should be looking at. the recovery fund is the north star to follow in this energy crisis as well. then, of course, other measures are needed immediately: a cap on gas prices, common purchases and storage, a tax on extra profits. and by the way, don't ask the draghi government for advice on this, because they have written the italian state law wrong and 9 out of 10 billion euros of revenue is missing. a scandal. these funds are now needed to cut the bills of citizens and businesses. hurry up!
mr president, european citizens are looking to us now to offer solutions to the economic and social crisis we are in. the actions we take today will determine the state of the european union tomorrow. energy and food prices, inflation rising at a very fast rate, with the long-term negative consequences of the pandemic, increased unemployment and a decrease in the purchasing power of our families, increased material poverty and increased social inequality. this is all just part of a wider problem we're facing. a problem that will affect many more people in the coming years and that will have dramatic consequences for the most vulnerable groups in our society. i therefore believe that it is time to have a european scheme of permanent unemployment reinsurance, to fight unemployment, to preserve jobs and workers' incomes and to create a new european union fund for social emergencies. we need to support the poor, support the disabled, the young, the elderly, the unemployed, the minimum wage earners or even those who do not even have a salary, including the platform workers, who have no rights, who have no protection.
president, at the beginning of the month you already know that you are not financially able to do it - and that is a reality for many europeans - and it eats away at people's insecurity. the dutch government lacks the urgency to deal with the crisis of purchasing power. they say: 'government is foresight', but with rutte iv we are actually stumbling backwards. and in these times, we can't use that, because i think the honest story is that there could be a recession following this purchasing power crisis. and that recession can then be a breeding ground for unrest, a breeding ground for populist parties. that is why i am calling on you, madam president of the commission. please don't leave it to idle words. encourage member states to meet european standards of decency now and to increase their minimum wages. and make sure there is a permanent part-time ww, a permanent sure programme, because that is how we keep employment and businesses from going under.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, thank you very much for your speech. you have given the european union a human face again today. you spoke with courage about ukraine. you were very firm about the russian sanctions. and as far as energy goes, you were actually on our side of the equation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i just wish i had a better schedule. a very strict and very concrete timetable is what the citizens are asking us to do. so i hope you can come up with that very tight schedule in the next few days. and you would not blame me, but i was surprised - since i know you very well - that you did not mention anything about european defence union, and as far as i am concerned, about the european army. so perhaps you can give us some hope right there, because we need this. the second point, mrs von der leyen, is this: we had that convention. we've had those citizen panels. they've made some very good proposals. now work on that convention! if we are to give europe a place in the world, we must abolish this unanimity. just do that! you have our support.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to address two points you raised in your speech, madam president. first, the global gateway. will you resolve the outstanding governance issues of the global gateway initiative before the end of the year? how many of global gateway's lighthouse projects will be identified by december? how is cooperation with our connectivity partners japan and india being enforced? secondly, on china policy: are we drawing the right conclusions from the russian experience? xi jinping's regime is becoming more repressive internally and more dangerous externally. china is openly supporting russia's aggression in ukraine. what steps do you envisage to provide better support for taiwan, to make european human rights policy on xinjiang more clear, rather than downplaying ms bachelet's criticism, and to achieve real economic independence from china?
madam president, mrs von der leyen, what you have announced to us on the energy crisis is overdue, generalistic and inadequate, and at the same time very few people are making incredible, skyrocketing profits while many people are suffering: households, businesses and workers who are seeing their incomes squeezed by inflation. we must know how, when and with what effect the price of electricity will be released from natural gas. we must also be aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on energy, research and technology. and, moreover, you must tell us how it is possible for all that you have promised to be financed with a budget of just 1% of european gdp. i also didn't see any accounting. of all the good things you said to us a year ago, what did you do? you have been in charge of the commission for over three years and your accounts are in deficit.
president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for this very lively debate. first of all, i want to thank you for the broad and united support for the support we are giving to ukraine. this was overwhelmingly the case here in the european parliament. i know you’re a staunch supporter of ukraine, and i thank you that you reiterated it today with all force. so to a few topics – i will not be able to respond to all the questions that have been put forward, i have spoken long. i want to have a look at the topic of the energy crisis. and i want to make very sure that there is no doubt about the fact in this house that it is putin who triggered this energy crisis. i had the strange experience that i listened to an id mep who really seemed, at least, to be so naive to think that putin started to use gas as a weapon only on 24 february this year. this has been prepared since long. i mean, beg your pardon, but look into the last year where you could have seen systematically gazprom, a russian state—owned company, reduce the deliveries of gas so that we had a 10—year low of gas storage. are you so naive or do you just want to ignore the facts if you look at that? then i heard from an mep of renew – rightly so – that the energy measures that we proposed yesterday and that i explained today have to be time—limited. and of course they are time—limited, because this is the reason why we use the ‘one to two’, to speed up, to be time—limited. it is the emergency instrument. i know it is not highly valued in the european parliament. i understand that. but if you look at the ‘one to two’ explicitly, the topic of energy is mentioned in ‘one to two’. and one of the preconditions to the question here is it must be appropriate, it must be speedy, and it must be time—limited. it’s a logic in itself. you have asked, hilde, about timelines. indeed, the proposals we’ve put on the table yesterday we hope and expect that council will decide on them end of september, so that then they can be on the road exactly, but – and this is important – the big, big reform many of you were rightly so calling for, for example to decouple the gas from the merit—order system, this big reform will be coming at the end of the year. and this is a big task all of us have to tackle together before this mandate ends because it is urgent now to move forward with the completely changed energy markets. on defence, guy, i understand your request. may i remind ourselves that we’ve done a lot to create the army of the europeans. so structures are in place, the pesco is in place, the defence fund is in place. what we have to do now is bring it on the road and deliver. i know i am partially preaching in the wrong church here, because my call has to go to the member states, but there is a reason why we put all of these instruments in place, so let us work on it together. this should be now our task. to mr bütikofer, global gateway and the whole topic of how to deal with china – so first of all, global gateway, i think this deserves an own debate because yes, of course the governance has to be in the place. but i told you that with president biden we will invite leaders to a summit to go through these projects now and to be very concrete on where we deliver together these investments that are a concrete alternative to what the world has seen so far from china. they are transparent, they are high quality, and they do not leave the finances of the countries in which these projects are with a huge debt burden like the chinese projects always do. so where china is concerned, this tool needs an own debate. but the fact that a few weeks before russia started the invasion in ukraine, china and russia signed a contract of unlimited friendship, this is telling enough. and finally, honourable members, i thank you for the broad support to strengthen our smes. we will come forward with a package, as i said. i would be very happy to hear not only what should not be, but pleased to hear also what we can do. i think this positive, constructive approach towards these reforms that we want to look forward and that we want to address, this has to come too. i think this is a noble task of the commission and of this parliament. and finally, to fortify our democracies i got the question here on, for example, ‘when are you acting on forced labour in our products?’ the good news is yesterday we tabled a proposal to combat forced labour. so this is done. it now goes towards you and i hope that there too we will be united and swift. long live europe! thank you very much for a very lively debate.
madam president, europe is facing an energy crisis. energy prices have risen dramatically, and the supply has become uncertain. as a result, businesses go bankrupt and citizens face brutal recessions. the commission's response to date has been counterproductive. as a result of the sanctions, contrary to the commission's promises, the european economy has weakened and inflation is skyrocketing. the commission has been watching the summer rise in gas and electricity prices, and its new proposals will not solve the crisis. the price cap on imported natural gas is another sanction that would further reduce the already scarce supply of natural gas, which is a completely absurd idea on the verge of the heating season. the commission president suggested in the debate that european families facing unpayable energy bills should send their bills to moscow to be paid by them. the backward sanctions, the resulting inflation, the commission's inaction, the europeans will send their recession bills to brussels to pay you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, things are difficult, but what we need now is the message of ‘yes, we see all the difficulties that everyone is facing. yes, we are doing whatever we can to make things better. yes, we will get through this very difficult time together – there is light at the end of the tunnel. and yes, europe is a vital part of the solution’. and for that, we need action now from the commission, from the council and from this house. one opportunity lies just ahead of you with the vote on renewables and on energy efficiency, and i hope we will do the right thing.
the s&d group. madam president, it was an intense debate. we have been able to intervene and we have been able to listen. and let me make a reference to something that i have not seen present in this debate and that i would have liked to see present. and it is more about the social dimension of europe, about that europe which must move forward to be on the side of those who need it most. we need a social resilience package to address issues such as a permanent instrument on unemployment, to address the fight against poverty, so that people do not lose faith in the european project. because we can't allow the public to feel like we've left them in the gutter again. so let us work on all that unites us, building also the social europe, the europe of citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i also want to thank ursula von der leyen for the contribution, for the great speech and a great discussion today. there is a broad consensus about now activating going further social means, also creating jobs, that’s why i think we have a lot in common that we want to work on. but i want especially to thank ska keller because she was presenting to the epp the flowers that we are the founding fathers of today’s european union – you said it – with adenauer, with de gasperi, with schuman; christian democrats together with socialists, together with liberals and then finally also greens, when you grew up as a party, contributed to this. but i want to say one thing: when we speak about pro-europeans and not pro-europeans, we should not politicise this thing. (laughter)because, i tell you – please listen – in the spanish government, there is podemos. three spanish podemos ministers voted against nato membership for finland and sweden – three of them in a government with socialists. we have the five star movement in government with lega in italy. nobody did a debate here. nobody asked for a debate here. and this was taking place in italy. i give you another argument: dear ska, you had a coalition in france to do campaigning together with mélenchon. mélenchon publicly said that we do not respect european law any more if we come in office. that was the position of mélenchon. and i give you another point: in the last cop, we had a debate about bulgaria. we will have a debate on bulgaria. (heckling)no, it’s really serious. two independent judges in bulgaria said over the summertime that detaining the opposition leader in bulgaria was unlawful. and i was simply asking for a debate about the bulgarian rule of law situation, but that was refused by the greens. so don’t politicise things. when we talk about the rule of law, it is independent. it’s about being based on facts and not about party-political orientation.
dear colleagues, for those of you commenting about the time, if you had been sitting here for four hours now you would have known that nobody was stopped from speaking in this chamber and i will not stop now. the debate on the state of the union is now closed. commission president, thank you for the whole time you spent with us. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. i thank the president of the european commission for his very clear support for ukraine. as president, i too believe that conflict should be resolved, not frozen. ukraine must win the war and the european union must help it do so. russia is not only at war with ukraine, but it has also launched a major energy war against the european union. manipulation of supplies has led to rapid price increases. i welcome the european commission's proposed energy crisis mitigation measure and share the commission's view that the source of the high prices is in moscow.
in writing. the european union is going through a tense and difficult period today. there is a war on europe's borders that kills innocent people every day. our people are watching with great concern the record inflation, the rising food and energy prices. europe is today more socially vulnerable than ever before, and we must respond quickly and in solidarity, in support of our citizens and businesses. we have heard today from the commission that it intends to present measures in the energy sector to reduce energy prices, and we welcome this. however, the key now is to have such measures immediately in place in member states with very different situations and different responses to the crisis. it is more important than ever to invest in our people, their education and their re-skilling to adapt to this challenging situation. we cannot allow the lowest-income people to be pushed further into poverty. ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a very difficult period, which calls for urgent decisions to stabilise the rise in food and basic commodity prices and to help our people and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, by offsetting energy bills. today, europe must pass the solidarity test to become stronger and more resilient and to ensure a genuine social europe for its citizens.
in writing. – we are today in the face of a europe of crises, a europe of opportunities and a europe that needs to work towards more solidarity. the rocketing energy prices are increasingly affecting the stability of our industry, with small businesses closing down all over europe, as is the ongoing inflation. european citizens need transparency and reassurance that they will not be forced to choose between heating their homes this winter and buying food. while the already spiralling energy prices and the covid-19 pandemic had their own negative effect, it should be acknowledged that europe’s dependence on russian gas has had a severe impact on the current crisis. given all this, europe should learn from its mistakes and look towards diversifying its energy supplies while also investing in renewables, ensuring more energy autonomy, all this whilst taking into account the various specificities and realities of our regions and member states and ensuring security of supply. may i conclude by emphasising that, in these precarious times, it is paramount that we continue striving relentlessly towards concrete measures so as to ensure that our most vulnerable do not bear the brunt.
madam president, mariupol, bucha, irpin, izum - all these are the names of ukrainian cities where the massacre took place, the atrocities committed by the russian troops. and i would like to focus now on the legal side of the matter, the human rights protection requirement. international law seems to be toothless. the un is blocked because the veto power is held by a member state of the security council, a permanent member, the russian federation. i think the eu should be ready and start preparing with our partners for the establishment of an international criminal tribunal to investigate these atrocities that are taking place in ukraine and in the liberated territories. we must be proactive and show that international law is not toothless, that those who lash out with nuclear weapons are also held accountable. that's the best way to show real human rights protection.
that concludes this item.
(in accordance with rule 202 (3) of the rules of procedure, the minutes of this sitting are to be laid before parliament for approval at the beginning of the afternoon session of the next day's sitting.) the next meeting will be held tomorrow, 4 october 2022, at 9:00 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
in accordance with rule 158 (2) of the rules of procedure, on a proposal from the president in agreement with the political groups, this sitting will be extended until 11 p.m. if there are no objections, the amendment is approved.
the agenda includes the report by alex agius saliba, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2014/53/eu on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of radio equipment (com (2021) 0547 - c9-0366/2021 - 2021/0291 (cod)) (a9-0129/2022).
rapporteur. – madam president, executive vice-president, today is a great day for consumers, a great day for our environment. this is the past, and this is the present: after more than a decade, the single charger for multiple electronic devices will finally become a reality, a reality in europe, and hopefully we can also inspire the rest of the world. every year, more than 400 million new phones, small electronic devices and chargers are sold in europe alone. ten years ago, when the idea of a common charger came to life, there were more than 30 different chargers on the market. and here we are speaking only about mobile phones. since then, there has been improvement, as well as a significant increase in new electronic devices and models on our market. people often replace their old phones or other electronics simply to update them with new ones or to be able to catch up with new trends. there has also been an increase in multi-device ownership and a shorter life cycle for such devices. and all that results in a pile of 11 000 tonnes of e-waste that we are producing each year from discarded and unused chargers, and more than 2 billion is spent annually on standalone chargers alone. not to mention the lack of interoperability between different brands, between different models, pure safety requirements, costs for adapters and proprietary chargers, unpredictable charging times, and failed or lost chargers. the list is too long. that is why today we are replacing this pile of chargers with just this. the simplest solutions are often the best and most practical ones. and the simple solution each year will save thousands of tonnes of electronic waste, facilitate the reuse of old electronics, better consumer convenience, reduce unnecessary costs and also help to save millions of euros. and that is why we are here today. the single charger will also minimise the environmental impact of discarded and unused chargers, address the sustainability of electronic products and empower consumers to make better choices, more sustainable choices. the single charger is a huge success that will benefit everyone: the environment, consumers and businesses alike. together with the shadow rapporteurs, it took us only six weeks to finalise negotiations with the commission and also the french presidency. all this just nine months after the commission issued its proposal. this is a remarkable result: proof that there is a drive for european solutions that change people’s lives for the better. yet again, we have achieved more, much more than just speed. we have achieved quality, ambition and future—proof rules so that by autumn 2024, usb—c will become the common charging port for smartphones, ereaders, earbuds, keyboards, computer mice, portable navigation devices, tablets, digital cameras, headphones and headsets, handheld video-game consoles, and also portable speakers. by the beginning of 2026, usb—c will also become the common charging port for all our laptops, including notebooks, portables, hybrids and netbooks. the commission will also be regularly revising this list with new products that up till today have not yet been included in the scope. charging speed will also be harmonised for devices that are supporting fast charging. on wireless charging, yet again this has been another priority of the internal market committee. it was important for us to propose a future—proof solution so we will leave no backroom doors open. this is why the commission, with the help of european standardisation organisations, will develop in 24 months an appropriate standard also for wireless technologies in buying new products such as smartphones. people will be given a choice, a choice on whether to purchase the new device with or without a charger. this choice will be facilitated with improved information. a dedicated pictogram and label clearly visible on each and every package, so that people can easily understand if the charger is included or not in the product. last but not least, i want to thank the shadow rapporteurs, staff and everyone who worked on this process to ensure that the common charger will finally become a reality for millions of consumers in europe and hopefully for the rest of the world. thank you, and i really hope that you can support this agreement.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i want to thank you all for this debate. of course we’ve been tossing a bit around in the situation that europe is in: war on our doorstep, an energy crisis that is deepening the worries of families – can we pay our bills? – the cost of living crisis, the ongoing climate emergency. but i think this debate shows that it is the parliament that is insisting to be on the side of citizens and to challenge also the corporate citizen to do the right thing. and in that respect, i see this as a token. and not only as a simple one, but something that will make real change in people’s lives. and i think it’s a very important beginning of making everything digital sustainable in the broadest possible sense of it. we will only fight climate change with the use of digital, but it only makes sense if everything digital becomes green as well. and the step taken today is a big step in the right direction because it shows that it’s doable and it’s also part of building that recycling industry that is so crucial for circularity. it has been a really big pleasure to be here today. i congratulate the parliament on this important step. thank you very much to everyone involved.
rapporteur i think this debate has shown how persistent this is a parliament that has been fighting for what we believe in for the last ten years and i think the strongest point that has come out today is the belief that this parliament has in consumer rights, in the rights of our citizens to get a better deal when they buy their digital products it has finally led to a tangible result. a tangible result that, in the end, will be felt by our consumers. and the european parliament, and also in the negotiations we had apart from the fact that although we had been discussing this principle for ten years, on the basis of the european parliament and on the basis of the work of the internal market committee we managed in just six weeks of negotiations with the commission and also with the french presidency, to reach an agreement. and we reach an agreement that is much more ambitious than the original proposal of the european commission where we managed to double the list of small and medium-sized electronic products that will be affected by this common charger. we also managed to introduce products like laptops that will ultimately be revolutionizing people's lives. we have also managed, in the end, to look forward to technologies that are already with us but, in the end, to be more predominant in the charger market such as wireless charging. this, after all, as we have already said, although today we are all talking about this economic and social crisis that we are facing because of the war that is going on in ukraine and the repercussions that our people are feeling, but, after all, a tangible proposal like this will also be leaving a positive impact in the homes of our consumers a quarter of a billion euros a year that will remain in the homes of our consumers and therefore a better quality of life for consumers. but ultimately also, better quality for our environment, for our environmental sustainability with eleven thousand tons less e-waste generated by these extra chargers. thank you very much for speaking with one voice today in favour of european consumers.
mr president, five years ago, daphne caruana galizia was assassinated. the ultimate punishment for exposing the corruption at the highest level of the maltese government: a government that carries responsibility for her murder by creating a favourable climate for anyone who wanted to eliminate her. whoever planned and carried out the assassination did so in the knowledge they would be protected. and they still feel protected today. impunity is still the norm in malta. the government has no real desire to find out who ordered and paid for the assassination. too afraid of inconvenient truths. just like nothing is done to address the corruption, fraud and criminality that daphne exposed in the first place. it’s very concerning. yes, indeed, this is not about party politics, but listening to this debate and looking at the speakers list, i have to wonder. the s&d has five speaking slots in this debate. four of them are filled by maltese meps. that’s the whole maltese delegation. is there really nobody else apart from thijs reuten, who did so very eloquently, who is concerned about this, who is committed to this? is there nobody else who wants to join his call for justice for the family of daphne? the rule of law cannot be a partisan issue. we need to show up together. we need to work together and we need to fight together.
mr president, the significant commemoration of daphne caruana galizia’s horrible murder is not being enhanced by this debate. the resolution before us replicates the attitudes of many other resolutions before it. they echo the messages of right—wing splinter groups which disparaged the malta government on all fronts and mindlessly. before, measures were needed; indeed, they were needed. they are being carried out in a democratic and open process of give and take. it might seem slow. but it is sure and certain and it is giving results. reforms already effected and in the pipeline actually put malta ahead of many other european states in the way, for instance, judicial, constitutional and police systems are or will be run. inexorably, those responsible for caruana galizia’s murder have been hunted down and brought to justice within timeframes that compete reasonably well with what happens elsewhere in europe. the process of justice and reform will continue to the end. however, this debate and the resolution attached to it will bring, i’m afraid, no value added to this process, and they do not reflect well on the objectivity and common sense of this house.
mr president, malta has dropped 31 places in the world press freedom rankings since the murder of journalist daphne caruana in 2017. he's up to 78th out of 180. the murder of the most annoying journalist was actually seeking the fear and silence of many. and, from the classification data, we know that things haven't changed substantially. slow justice is less justice and relative impunity is not justice. the judicial process has been long and tortuous, and we only have the tip of the iceberg of the whole plot that led to the murder of daphne caruana. the killers have confessed, but everything else goes unpunished. the existence of citizens, ladies and gentlemen, is an indispensable condition for our democracies to remain so. the profession of journalist cannot be a profession of heroes. when she was killed, daphne had the accounts seized by the lawsuits to keep her mouth shut, so that no one would know about the corruption. and this is one of the challenges in the european commission's european media freedom act. the european parliament cannot allow the council to make any cuts or cheats in this matter. no, in this file.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! it is good that parliament has taken up the case of the maltese journalist. it's a shame this is only the second debate on this topic in five years. it's a political murder, though. and indeed, as my predecessors have said, there is a great deal that has not been made clear in this case. nor was the context of this political relationship with the criminal world explained. i was on a special delegation to another european union country, slovakia, which was also ruled by the same political option. we were there to investigate the murder of jan kuciak, his fiancée, also a man who investigated the interests of the authorities and those who wanted to make money by contacting the authorities. now let us consider whether we have shown proper interest in these matters. and was our interest in poland, for example, proportionate to what was happening in our country? let's think about this. i'm asking you to think about this.
mr president, a few months ago the president of the european commission said that malta's efforts to strengthen the institutions, the rule of law and governance are to be commended. at the same time, we are here today to witness the final resolution and debate of the recycled facts on the rule of law in malta. with all due respect to the memory of daphne caruana galizia, i am still awaiting debates and resolutions in this parliament on the four other journalist murders that have occurred in the european union since daphne caruana galizia. offences for which the legal procedure has not even started or has not been concluded. we as a country have some reforms to do, but i wonder which member state has a perfect system for its institutions. the difference is that the maltese government has never been able to listen, dialogue and implement the reforms that were proposed. we have strengthened the transparency in the appointment of judges, we have strengthened the office of the advocate general, we have strengthened the resources of the police and the fiau and so far we already have three sentenced persons and three others, including the alleged mandant, who are waiting for the start of trials in order to bring full justice to the journalist. these are the facts that, because of partisan political interest in this house, are today being tried to cover up.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the story of daphne caruana galizia is the story of ján kuciak: journalists killed while investigating under socialist governments. i would like to take this opportunity to remind the house of the statements made by the socialist governments in their search for truth and justice, in their demand for truth and justice. we remember their statements. what you heard is the sound of silence. and silence in these cases kills twice.
mr president, many of the conclusions of the public inquiry into the murder of daphne caruana galizia have been drawn or are in the process of being drawn. the level of judicial independence perceived in malta remains high. the maltese government has responded by implementing a number of reforms to address shortcomings in the democratic system and the rule of law. these are not the words of josianne cutajar, a proud maltese, a member of the ruling labour party. these were the words of von der leyen to prime minister robert abela; the european commission in its latest report on the rule of law. the speech was delivered by the council of europe. more people have been found and convicted for the murder that has left a mark on our country. and we have a government that keeps changing, that believes that what it has achieved so far is not yet there. the progress being made in countries is recognised by those who have an impartial and objective view. it should not be this parliament that once again tries to paint a different picture. i would like to conclude by recalling that the protection of journalists and the rule of law must be protected and strengthened everywhere and in every member state.
in writing. – the past years have been extraordinary, but one thing has stayed the same: mental health disorders remain a silent issue affecting billions worldwide. it is undeniable that the effects of covid along with the more recent war in europe and the energy crisis are affecting us all. it is not once that citizens come to me disheartened, with a fear that they live in an unstable europe, in an unsafe world. it is high time we put forward a comprehensive, holistic eu mental health strategy. during her state of the union speech, president von der leyen committed to delivering a new eu-wide initiative on mental health. we must make sure that this initiative will come sooner rather than later. we must ensure that it will raise awareness, address the stigma, facilitate access to help for those in need and that it will pay special attention to vulnerable groups. let us also teach our citizens, especially our youth, how to recognize bullying online and how to protect their mental health. we need to strive towards teaching tolerance and responsibility online amongst an uprising, negative and, at times destructive, culture.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. the year 2023 is the third year of the multiannual financial perspective. normally, this would be a year of very serious spending. unfortunately, external conditions have caused the expenditure to accumulate in the second part, so it will probably start in 2023. therefore, we assume that more funds will be needed. in addition, completely new situations are emerging, unforeseen until now, and it is likely that the commission will, as in 2022, respond to emergencies in europe and the world. we cannot exclude that new commitments will be made, that new promises will be made, that new declarations of expenditure will be made, particularly as regards energy matters or matters of war. if so, the budget must be prepared for this type of action. he needs to be more flexible. it must be able to react quickly and adapt to the situation. i am therefore, as my colleagues have said, absolutely in favour of revising the budget and i would like to express my satisfaction at the commissioner's hand that for the first time the wording of the revision appears in the document on the commission's plan. this was a pleasant surprise to me, because until now the commission has only used the wording 'review'.
mr president, while europe was recovering from the pandemic crisis, it faced a number of other crises: the eu's external policy is based on the principle of the free movement of persons, which is a fundamental principle of the eu's external policy. and among all these challenges, we must continue to address the challenges of climate change and the digital transition. this situation will have a negative impact on the social and economic situation of the european union and the worst affected will be our citizens, whose quality of life will be reduced. and although we see all this happening before our eyes, we are still not prepared. the next year's budget is crucial to provide solutions to these challenges. this is not a business as usual situation; an effort must therefore be made to help the most vulnerable. in view of the high inflation rate we are experiencing, i therefore call on you to support two amendments that we are going to be moving forward as a group of socialists and democrats, which will further strengthen social dialogue and give more tools to the social partners, to stand by the side of workers in these difficult times.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, commissioner johansson, resilience of critical entities could be slightly changed as a headline to ‘resilience of critical entities and slightly naive and sometimes stupid minds’. why? after the collapse of the soviet union, many member states thought that we are living in a problem-free world. i think the home country of commissioner johansson actually abandoned obligatory military service after 1990, thinking that we don’t ever need military operations in europe. and then, all of a sudden on 24 february, we woke up to a new reality – a very bitter reality, actually, where we are going to need all the things we actually discussed during all the discussions around the critical entities file. many member states thought the need for a comprehensive directive on critical entities was useless, so they didn’t even implement the old directive on european critical infrastructure. fourteen years after this directive, we finally managed to agree on a directive that could actually highlight the importance of keeping our critical entities safe. we don’t know how much we actually lost during these 14 years. but what we are losing now because of the lack of an appropriate way for addressing critical entities, we are losing lives, and that’s the real issue for the day. but i hope that we are going into a better future with this directive.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, commissioner, we all depend on essential services such as energy, transport, water, digital infrastructure, health, production and also food distribution. during the covid-19 pandemic, countries had to work together to protect the health of the population while avoiding disruptions to the free movement of people and the delivery of goods and essential services throughout the european union. the recent sabotage against nord stream pipelines is another example of our energy infrastructures’ vulnerability. pipelines and underwater cables are essential infrastructure that connect european citizens and companies throughout the world. in an increasingly interdependent world, it is in the interests of all europeans to protect those services and infrastructures that play an indispensable role in maintaining vital societal functions, our economic activities and the very internal market. as the rapporteur for the imco opinion, i support the agreement and believe that the new rules come just at the right moment to strengthen and prepare the resilience of the european union as a whole. we don’t always have to wait till something negative happens and, instead, be prepared and resilient for sudden disruptions and crises, situations, be it pandemic, be it wars, or even natural disasters. thanks a lot and, also, well done again to the rapporteur.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, this international day is, of course, an important occasion to take stock of what has been done to end such violence against women and domestic violence. but more importantly, it gives us the opportunity to assess what still needs to be done. now more than ever, we need the support of all stakeholders to ensure the smooth adoption of our two main proposals – the directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence and the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention. of course, the latter would be the ideal road to take, but we also know that some member states continue to refuse this ratification. we also need your continued support to raise awareness of the disproportionate impact of gender-based violence on society at large. so while legislation and policy are necessary, so i would say is a change in attitudes. so, also importantly, as katrin pointed out, is the training for stakeholders such as the police, such as the judiciary, all those involved, because many member states have strong legislation in place and still we continue to see this tragedy of women being killed every day. so really, we must also work a lot on this patriarchal culture, on the attitudes of how women are treated for the simple reason that we are women. so, immediate and long-term physical, sexual and mental consequences for women and girls are, of course, devastating and can limit women’s and girls’ participation in society and on the labour market. so women and girls can only lead and thrive if they are free from violence. so, let us continue to work together to achieve a union of equality, free from any kind of violence, but in this case, especially of gender-based violence.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, i wish to thank you for this important debate today. first of all, let me apologise for not having been able to follow it in its entirety as i had a duty to sign several legislative acts, together with president metsola. this debate is important and timely in the most unfortunate sense of the word, in light of yesterday’s tragic killing of bernice cassar in malta, as evoked by president metsola and commissioner dalli in their opening remarks. sadly, we see these events occurring every day. let me be absolutely clear. the prevention and elimination of violence against women and girls is a must that requires joint, constant and unwavering efforts from all of us, including the co-legislators. i will repeat it again. we are allies. that also means that we are stronger together and we can achieve more together. i am sure i speak for us all when i say we will not give up this struggle until we see violence against women and girls eradicated from europe and the world. thank you very much once again for your attention.
in writing. – estimates published by who indicate that about 1 in 3 women in the world have been subjected to either physical or sexual intimate partner violence or non-partner violence, including inter-generationally between parents and children, in their lifetime. the femicides we are assisting are also the direct result of the inequalities we are still tolerating, from the gender pay gap, to women traditionally being caretakers, to the insensitivity certain law enforcement authorities still show towards domestic violence complaints. while we focusing our efforts on the crises we face, we must keep in mind the increasing inequalities, including those hidden from the public eye and attracting stigmatisation. we must strive to empower women to leave abusive environments through adequate support, such as safe shelters and access to help services through diverse channels including the digital ones, easily accessible for all. at the same time, we must strengthen the training and resources for the judiciary, law enforcement officers, and healthcare and social service providers. moreover, the stereotypes and misogyny women face must be addressed at societal level through better educational programmes.
for the ppe group. madam president, the level of digitalisation is crucial to the success of the union's economy and the quality of life of our citizens. i think there are three areas that are important. first, it is the level of infrastructure. we need to invest more in digital infrastructure. we need to motivate private investors to invest in digital infrastructure, and that goes with our legislative work to motivate as much as possible for better investment, for better internet accessibility. to make the internet more accessible and affordable for citizens and businesses. secondly, it is the legislative level. we have passed many laws in this parliament and it is good that we are setting global standards for digital legislation. well, and third, it's the skill level. we need to invest more and more in digital skills, also with european money. small businesses, which employ the most people, are also an important topic, and their level of digitalisation will also determine our success. i believe that these ambitious goals of having all documents online by 2030, of having all governmental agencies online, of having all public institutions online, of having all health records online, are achievable, and i believe that with the level of digitization, we will also move the standard of living of citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the eu is finally taking a tangible commitment towards digitalisation through important trajectories and targets. the digital decade we’ve negotiated with the council gives member states enough flexibility to pursue digitalisation whilst taking into account their different starting points. yet digitalisation is not an end in itself, but a means to broader societal outcomes. we have committed to achieving reliable, fast and secure connectivity for everywhere in the union, including in rural and remote areas such as islands. by 2030, 80% of those aged 16 to 74 should have basic digital skills. there are targets for our smes and targets when it comes to big data and ai. a fast and steady creation of digital skills is essential if we want to also address cybersecurity concerns. in this regard, it’s very important that we continue working together. until then, however, let’s keep in mind the disadvantaged, our elderly who cannot access the internet and let’s maintain offline accessibility of public services whilst we transit. whilst the new measures will encourage social inclusion, democratisation of digital skills, narrowing the gender gap, our fight towards a just digital market should continue and our strive towards this. and in this regard, we should agree and work towards stronger digital rights, including access to the internet as a fundamental right. let’s ensure that the europe of 2030 will be digitally ready, fully connected, leading ahead whilst leaving no one behind.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! in recent years, the words 'digital transformation' have been changed by all the cases. the covid-19 pandemic has greatly accelerated the processes that are taking place and has forced us to adapt to the new reality through the widespread use of digital technologies. but there is no doubt that for the european union to be able to fully and effectively digitise, we need a coherent strategy. the 2030 'digital decade' policy agenda is the right step in this direction. the program has great potential. it sets out ambitious digital targets for the union as a whole in priority areas. these will be achieved through individual national pathways. of course, it is impossible to list all the objectives in one minute, but the most important ones are: enabling citizens to access public services 100% online, significantly increasing the number of digital professionals, increasing digital skills and combating exclusion, and digitising businesses. i believe that this strategy will enable us to achieve the objectives set at union level more efficiently.
president, commissioner, the digital transformation of european economies and societies is proceeding at a very fast pace, and this is bringing with it a number of new opportunities but at the same time critical challenges that we must address in the future. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on digital services, in particular by ensuring that the union's digital services are not used for commercial purposes. at the same time, these crises have exposed, in a very strong way, the digital divide that exists between citizens, and the need to adopt digital solutions that are accessible to different regions, countries and sectors. and therefore that we need additional commitments to guarantee a just transition, an inclusive transition that leaves no one behind; the pilot project will also provide information on the impact of the eu's new digital agenda on the development of the digital economy, including the impact of the digital economy on the development of the economy, the impact of the digital economy on the economy and the impact of the digital economy on the economy. therefore, i support the contribution that initiatives such as the digital decade can make to achieving the cohesive digital transformation for european society by 2030, in particular by bridging the gap between rural and urban areas.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the contributions to this debate. i appreciate your concerns for the sector and your support in ensuring its safe and sustainable recovery. i would say that not all of you are right, and especially those who are criticising the level of protection for the rights of passengers. i’m repeating the fact that the main problem here, when there is congestion and there are delays, is not that we do not have enough legislation, but it’s not well known, and is not supported by the authorities which are supposed to support it. so it’s not about a new legislation or new things we are going to put forward, but we have to implement it. and during covid, you know very well that we did a lot of things and the commission pushed as much as possible the member states, the agencies for consumer protection, to cooperate. we started infringements. so we are doing what we can, but in the end it’s about implementing and making these rights better known. some of you discussed rightfully about the impact of decarbonisation and the measures we are supposed to take for the sector, by saying on the one hand that it will come with a new burden which will increase prices, or, the opposite, others saying that we are not doing enough and soon enough, but indeed the decarbonisation needs have to be done in a way that promotes growth and gives the european airlines a competitive edge, because we are looking to it as a global industry as it was rightfully mentioned here. and this was the angle we took through refueleu in aviation. we are trying to establish a way, an industrial angle to decarbonisation of our aviation, creating the market for alternative fuels. and since i’m talking about alternative fuels, this is in this regulation recognised the particular attention we are paying to specific needs of the islands or the outermost regions, the smaller airports. these will benefit from preferential treatment to protect their connectivity, for example, the sustainable alternative fuel allowances that will help bridge the price gap between kerosene and sustainable aviation fuels, and also the possibility to request special treatment under the anti—tankering provisions. so i keep this all the time in mind and i am trying my best to support the connectivity for islands and outer regions. thank you, mr oetjen, for helping to come up with cef allowances. we are doing our best to persuade member states on this single european sky, the ses+, and in the meantime we are developing technological solutions with ses, our joint undertaking. now the issue which was raised with claims of fatigue or culture in some airlines which creates, well, reports of crew fatigue and complaints. i must tell you that easa provides regular reports to the commission on its monitoring and oversight activities. both the commission and easa recognise that fatigue can be a serious safety hazard and needs to be identified and properly mitigated, and we are continuously following this up. there is a continuous ongoing assessment of the eu flight time limitation. the flight limitation regime is run by us alongside member states. it’s involving stakeholders’ scientific expertise to monitor the effectiveness of system. the first regular report on the results of the monitoring programme was published in february 2019, and currently the commission has no data to suggest that the eu flight time limitation regime for pilots would increase the risk of accidents. i know that you are referring also – ms tax – to some allegations made by the pilots’ unions regarding the official safety culture at a particular airline. easa conducted an additional off—site investigation for comprehensive data concerning documented analysis, statistics, evidence, as well as on—site audits, interviewing flight crew members about rostering process, fatigue reporting, safety culture. and i must tell you that it will continue to perform additional inspections on—site for flight crews. and we have absolutely no element at this stage to say that something is non-compliant. but it is monitored permanently, i can assure you. this is no joke. then how we provide support to have more workers in the system, because this is, as you know very well, one of the issues why we had the delays and crowded airports. and by the way, the commission encourages member states to invest in their airports, new technologies, whatever you want, regional rules or whatever. we are not opposing that. so please do what you consider is best for your connectivity. but for the workers, you know very well that it’s difficult because of the safety rules and the vetting of new workers. so it’s a process. we are assured by the industry that this is an ongoing process and things are going to improve. this would be, i would say, some of the answers i have to your concerns. the air service regulation impact assessment is under way. but for those who are asking that social issues like, i don’t know, the operational base to be solved through air service regulation, i’m just reminding you that air service regulation is more than that. and also the social issues are more than air service regulation. so i am not saying that specifically there is the best place to address the social issues, but it’s a complex and multifaceted issue which we need to solve, and i’m committed to do so. thank you very much for your attention, and let’s continue to work together to support this very important sector.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. – this summer chaos ensued also owing to a lack of staff in the aviation industry. as a result, flights were cancelled or delayed. items of luggage were lost. and the freedom of movement of individuals throughout the european union ended up being hampered. we talk about the fact that the freedom of movement is part and parcel of eu values. but what is free movement, when those who live in remote and peripheral regions, including islands, end up struggling to travel affordably and in a timely manner to the mainland? these are all aspects that we must address for the situation not to repeat itself. when addressing this situation, protecting workers and rights must be a main priority. a lack of human resources means that workers are already spread too thin. forcing them to work longer hours and under more stress, means a danger to their safety and that of the passengers. it is our responsibility to prevent this. whilst working towards the digital and green transition, the human aspect must remain central. we must collaborate with all stakeholders to arrive at solutions that offer reliable, affordable and safe transport for all eu citizens, no matter where they come from.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! the first call for a child guarantee came from the european parliament in 2015 and was met with scepticism by some. six years later, the commission came out with a proposal for a recommendation. and i don't think anyone doubts the importance of this initiative today. it is simply not acceptable that there are still children in europe who live in poverty, social exclusion, lack of access to health care, warm meals, education and adequate housing. unfortunately, we know that this is the case in all member states, and instead of improving, the situation has worsened during the covid-19 pandemic, and there is a lot of evidence that the current energy crisis will not spare the youngest. so while the goal of reducing child poverty by 5 million by 2030 may seem far away, i personally believe that implementing the child guarantee is a matter of urgency. every year, every month spent in poverty, it makes it harder for children to get a good start in life and it pushes them into a cycle of poverty that is socially excluded and that is hard to break out of. i therefore urge those member states which have not yet done so to prepare and submit their plans for implementing the guarantee swiftly. i also support the creation of a separate budgetary envelope for this purpose to support the implementation of the strategy.
mr president, one in four children throughout the european union is at risk of poverty, at risk of social exclusion. the pandemic has further exacerbated the situation and added another 150 million children at risk of poverty. the war of aggression against ukraine has continued to put more and more pressure on - with children, the most vulnerable people, being the most negatively affected. these statistics are shocking and will have a very long-lasting effect on our children. and that is why it is important to continue to fight for the guarantee of young people. it is useless, and hypocritical, to keep talking about the youth guarantee and then not to provide all the resources needed to make it work both at european level and at the level of our member states. it does not make sense that we are still in one sitting after another, in one debate after another, talking about the need for these 20 billion euros to get this guarantee going - to get it working. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
