mr president, the storming of the capitol after the widespread misinformation about elections, a surge in radicalisation and extremism driven by conspiracies, and a stark rise in threats against journalists and politicians in the netherlands – even at night at their homes: while we watch the disastrous effects of the spread of hate and misinformation online slowly unfold and seep into real life, we often hear that platforms need to take responsibility. but the internet shouldn’t be in the hands of a few companies that profit from the large spread of hate and disinformation. it’s up to us as politicians to take responsibility. and after 20 years without updates, we now have the chance to fundamentally change the rules on the internet. let’s take back control from big tech and put it firmly back into the hands of the people. we need to break big tech’s power over our information before it erodes our democracy. but for some colleagues, it seems a step too far to make the necessary fundamental changes. yes, as the text stands there will be good improvements for users, and i’m happy to see that our proposals have been taken on board for strong notice and action procedures and a ban on manipulating people’s choices online with dark patterns. but a few months ago, when frances haugen was here, every group in this house tried to have the loudest voice on how we would rein in big tech, and look at where we are now. the deal that was struck in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) was warmly welcomed by the big tech lobby, and there’s a strong call from them to not vote for any amendments. and to my colleagues in the ppe, s&d and renew groups who want to hold on to this imco deal: profiting financially from the spread of hate and disinformation must stop. three simple solutions can change this fundamentally and protect our democracy. first of all, turn polarising, personalised algorithms based on clicks and interaction off by default. secondly, ban pervasive tracking for ads online to stop these manipulative business models. and if we as europe are serious about taking on big tech, let’s look at the need for a european platform supervisor, because strong rules are nothing without enforcement. these are proposals you can vote on today, and i call on you all to do so, because our democracy is too important to leave in the hands of large tech companies.
president, commissioners and colleagues, many platforms such as facebook are actually operating like a factory without windows at the moment. no policymaker, no social organisation, let alone the individual citizen, really knows exactly what is going on behind the walls of that factory. we're not getting a handle on the algorithms, and we're being pushed in a certain direction without knowing it. abuse is not being prevented or is being delayed, and there is no clear legal framework. everyone is treated on a bit of a random basis. and that's why it's high time we set a limit, set rules for tech companies. companies need to be more responsible about the content we want to put out. and we owe it to ourselves to take responsibility and to make a clear legislative framework. i have three children of my own, aged four, two and a newborn. the two oldest are already watching youtube videos a lot. vlad and niki will know the young parents. well, i'm honestly concerned about the moment they realize that they actually have unlimited access to all the content that comes online, and especially the content that's distributed through the major platforms. the control algorithms or the intrusive personalized advertising can be harmful to them, among other things. i am therefore proud of the decision we are about to take to better protect minors in the online world in the future. with a ban on commercial personalised advertising targeting children and increased transparency requirements, such as mandatory labelling of deepfakes, we are providing minors with a safe online environment. with the digital services act and the previously adopted digital markets act, we are going to set the gold standard worldwide. i am convinced that this will lead to a better, safer online environment where users' fundamental rights are protected and where companies are also clear about their rights and obligations. big tech will no longer be able to run its course without rules and without accountability. security over economic gain.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. we cannot ignore the imperfections of the digital marketplace and their impact on our privacy, consumer rights, security, or freedom of public debate. digital platforms have created a situation where, whether they like it or not, they create reality, including political reality, without any responsibility for it. complicated internal rules and unclear procedures for appealing decisions, such as deleting content on social media, are examples of self-regulation that does not work. the digital services act is needed to address the lack of control and transparency. however, we must remember that the internet is not just a digital giant, but also a huge number of small and medium-sized businesses that can effectively reach customers through their online presence. their situation is specific and should not be subject to excessive burden and regulation.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. we are in the midst of a digital revolution that is fundamental to our daily lives. the analysis suggests that within three years up to a quarter of global economic activity will be digital. in a decade, that ratio will double. the digital market is therefore evolving at an ever-increasing pace and it is therefore important to develop not only digital infrastructure and digital skills but also digital legislation. this is key and in this respect the digital services act is such a landmark piece of legislation that we can speak of a year zero for digital rules. they are so important that, when set correctly, these european standards will be world standards. these rules must not only protect citizens, consumers, but should also help create new jobs, especially by small firms, which traditionally create the most jobs. not in the form of absolute prohibitions, restrictions or an increase in bureaucracy, but in the form of clear rules that will be functional and set clear rules and obligations for all participants. of course, there are many friction surfaces in such an important design. in particular, rules on the regulation of illegal content need to be carefully adjusted so that regulation does not become a tool of censorship. what's illegal in the offline world, must be illegal online. i am aware of the serious societal impact of disinformation on the development of society, and we need to create sufficient scope for a qualified assessment of individual requests to avoid the opposite effect. i also understand the concerns of the media from the multiple provisions, when they fear deterioration of the conditions for their work. but i would remind you that this is horizontal legislation, which is important and will continue to evolve. i also consider it crucial to protect our greatest asset, which is why i support the idea that advertising cannot be targeted at those who cannot yet give informed consent, namely our children. i believe that this proposal is really crucial. i thank all those who have contributed to it, and i believe that with this approval we will contribute to fairness, transparency and better protection of citizens in the digital world.
mr president, the digital services act aims to benefit eu citizens by providing safer and more transparent access to online platforms. the process towards an agreement in this house has, as expected, been a rather complex one. compromises reached will not necessarily provide an enduring answer to all pending questions. this legislation should therefore be seen as a crucial step of the work in progress. some issues that are technical and political at the same time, clearly, will need further consideration. for example, we stress the need for an ongoing audit of how digital service providers carry out their functions. but auditing firms of the accounting or legal kind – this traditional kind – cannot automatically be taken as competent or as qualified for the purposes of auditing under the dsa. should we not therefore have some definition of professional standards by which to ensure that auditors under the dsa regime are fit for purpose? furthermore, which precise role will financial and competition authorities be playing in the new mechanism? then there is a wider strategic question that needs to be faced. we are assuming all the time that regulation will be enough to deal with the rise of digital services and the associated risks and conditions that have come with them. but have digital service firms operating globally become too big for regulation to be able to really cope – as, for instance, in advertising and access to information? in which case, should we not work towards breaking up into smaller units the effective global monopolies that are outpacing and will continue to outpace regulation?
mr president, madam vice president, commissioner, christel, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. the digital services act is about taking away the digital giants' control over our data. but it's not about handing that power over to authoritarian governments and their institutions. so we're setting up a game-changing moderation policy, and i can hear clearly in this room that not everyone likes it. oh, my god. this regulation is about us being able to decide for ourselves what we want to see on the internet, about corporations not being able to drive fear for profit, as they are doing now, not creating a wave of hatred or spreading misinformation that can threaten health or even life. it's about not being followed without our explicit consent. it's about not allowing our sensitive data to be used to build trauma algorithms. to ruthlessly protect our youngest children from the ads that are following them. but it is also about ensuring fair competition in the market and giving european start-ups and small companies a chance against europe's tech giants. and that's why we're putting an incomparably greater burden on these big companies. and this is right and this is very important, because it is on these big companies that much more responsibility lies. the impact on the way our shared digital space looks is much greater on their side.
president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal for a law on digital services is increasing the pressure to moderate even more and to remove harmful content from online platforms. big tech is fine with it as long as they can protect their business models. i have brought forward the following points as a co-negotiator: establishing definitions of what is harmful and hateful, because good legislation starts with clear definitions; restore the fundamental right to freedom of expression by also prohibiting the structural removal of legal content; the need for full transparency of the algorithms used; and promote competition for big tech by minimising rules for small online businesses. unfortunately, with insufficient success, and therefore i cannot vote in favour of this version of the digital services act. however, the amendments by ecr, id and the green colleague from the libe committee are an excellent improvement on the current proposal. ladies and gentlemen, in order to prevent the digital services act from becoming a digital censorship law, i would urge everyone to vote in favour of these amendments. that makes the digital services act significantly better, and including these amendments i recommend voting in favour.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. what was once one of the freest and most democratic regions in asia has now become a defenseless prey in the obsessive clutches of the chinese communist party. as more and more independent media and ngos are silenced, the free flow of news is increasingly threatened. mr president, where does this end? will the national security law be used to restrict religious freedom, as is already the case in mainland china? four religious organizations in hong kong have already had to close their doors. president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: europe must also provide a safe haven for hong kongers whose freedom is seriously threatened. what are you going to do, council and commission, in concrete terms?
on behalf of the renew group. president, it is absurd that i should stand here today in 2022 again to advocate for sexual and reproductive rights for women, but the dry, conservative wind is blowing through europe. in poland, safe and accessible abortion is already de facto banned. and now the polish government even wants the bizarre, compulsory registration of pregnancies. conservative forces in the member states of croatia, slovakia and lithuania are all too eager to follow the polish example. in malta, abortion is illegal without exception. self-determination is no longer a matter of course in europe. because let me be clear: sexual and reproductive rights are about women's self-determination, freedom and the fundamental right to make your own choices about your own body, and therefore your own life. and these rights are inviolable. and i call on this parliament, the european council and the commission to stand up for these fundamental rights. commit yourselves to the simone veil pact. ensure that all member states of this union guarantee the safe, legal and accessible right to abortion. provision of inclusive sexual education and access to contraceptives are non-negotiable. only in this way can fundamental human rights be guaranteed for all citizens. because women's rights are human rights, and that should be the norm and the reality in europe. and to do that, i invite all my colleagues here to speak up for these fundamental rights. but that alone is not enough. if member states do not have safe and legal routes to abortion, let us come up with a european solution. let it be possible for women to exercise this right to safe abortion elsewhere in europe. because we have to help each other. and as they know in poland, lives are at stake here. this is just about a human life. this is just about a woman's life. and that's just being played with in these ridiculous laws that we know here in europe now. it's just to be ashamed of yourself, here in europe. and finally, we know that restricting sexual and reproductive rights is not in itself. where there is a debate on women's rights, there is also a debate on human rights.
i'm not going to tell you. we are in the first plenary session of the year, with the election of the new leadership of the european parliament dominating the agenda. i'm not going to tell you. i wish you firm resolve, firmness in values and wisdom in decisions. there is therefore less room for the regular agenda. and what makes it all the more puzzling is that the subject of so-called sexual and reproductive rights is back on the agenda. we have talked about it and voted on it so often in recent times that i cannot recall a single plenary session in which it was not present. as i have always said, this is a matter for the member states alone, and by opening it up to the european institutions we are grossly interfering with the allocation of powers agreed from the outset between the european union and its member states. by continually interfering with the principle of subsidiarity, which is one of the fundamental pillars of our integration, we are setting a dangerous example for its further and repeated violation in other areas. i am also very sorry about this development because it is a very sensitive value issue which should not be treated in such an ideological and, above all, polarizing way. because we are, in this heated debate, deviating from what should be our goal, which is the protection of human life, the human dignity and rights of each and every one of us, the protection of health, the quality of health care provided to mothers and children, and the support of families. women in difficult life situations deserve our help and support. and it is precisely the protection of every life that would otherwise be lost for economic or other reasons that should be at the heart of all our efforts, while respecting the clearly agreed allocation of competences between the european union and the member states.
madam president, the right to safe and legal abortion should indeed be enshrined in the european charter of fundamental rights. as president macron said yesterday, it’s about women’s lives. simone veil, as the first proud president of this house, was fighting for women’s rights, for abortion rights, and still we have to do this decades later. when we talk about human rights, we often talk about the right to live and sometimes also about access to health care. let me remind you that these rights are also the rights of women. they are fundamental rights and they are not negotiable. these rights are essential. sexual and reproductive health and rights (srhr) are many things. it’s access to health, the best, free of charge, access to contraception, for example. it’s giving women a choice and, as we have seen in recent months, in some cases it means the pure right to live for a pregnant woman. as the european parliament, we have numerous times supported women’s health and rights, but as the european union, we need to step up the effort. the european union has to finally see srhr as what they are: a question of the fundamental rights of women.
mr president, let me be very clear today. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the european parliament will be able to support the work of the commission in this area. research shows that 31 percent of women have regrets after an abortion, with an increased risk of suicide, mental problems, as well as miscarriage in a subsequent pregnancy. the principle of allowing abortion is also wrong. every human being is worthy of protection, every human being. it's even in our own charter: every human being. surely that is true of the tiny, fragile human with a beating heart in the womb. that's a human life, too. meanwhile, in a country like denmark, with its extensive abortion laws, almost no children are born with down syndrome. is that what we in the eu want to achieve? and that's how we end up in a down-free society. i find it a chilling thought. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. yes, unwanted pregnant women and girls can feel very powerless at times. let us stand by them, not by referring them to an abortion clinic, but by offering them real help and care for both the mother and the child.
mr president, the polish ministry of health recently put forward another proposal against abortion, another low point. the polish government wants to start registering pregnant women, so from now on the government will know whether a pregnancy leads to a baby, a miscarriage or an abortion. we know the examples of women dying in poland in the eu because doctors are afraid to intervene in a hopeless pregnancy for fear of being sued. mr president, this systematic attempt to restrict women's rights by means of men and power reminds me very much of margaret atwood's book, the handmaid's tale. in this book, the world is run by a male elite and women have to bear children. this system no longer seems like a fantasy story, but is getting closer and closer. that is why i appreciate what president macron said yesterday in the plenary. he called for the right to abortion to be recognised and for safe abortion to be available in the eu. political pressure and solidarity are important. we must include sexual and health rights in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, secretary of state, and dear youth of europe, the covid pandemic has impacted everyone, but the impact on the lives of young people cannot be underestimated. a big reduction in social contacts, not going out with friends and not enjoying school with your peers, crucial moments and connections that will shape your life, which were all stalled. and only time will tell how this impacts the future of this generation. but we all have the responsibility to limit the damage. and what young people might need the most right now is to feel that they are taken seriously. and we don’t show this by making them work for companies and organisations for free. and that is why this year has to be the year that we ban unpaid internships and traineeships in europe. the era of working for experience has to be over. if you work, you get paid. and we can no longer tolerate young people and their skills being exploited. we can no longer tolerate that you can only do an internship if your parents have enough money to support you. and we can no longer ask from young people to wait a few more years to first get older and wiser until they are seen as a worthy part of the labour market. the covid pandemic already demanded young people to wait with living their full lives for two years. the least we can do is to ensure young people can start their lives on the labour market without making debts. and i want you all to know that this is what we will fight for, a european ban on unpaid internships.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report on the welfare of farm animals has nothing whatsoever to do with the protection of these animals. i have to say it as hard as it is. the report was supposed to update the extremely outdated rules on the protection of farm animals. that is where the report fails. it lacks ambition, is driven by the interests of the livestock industry and overemphasizes the economic costs of better livestock production. this report is a slap in the face to all those who want more animal welfare and more welfare for our farm animals. it is a matter of the council's having a clear view of the situation. i would rather call for a vote in favour of amendment no 2 to the opinion of the committee on the environment. we have included in it a more precise and advanced perspective on the treatment of farm animals, which takes account of the latest scientific findings and takes seriously the many millions of citizens who are calling for much better protection of farm animals. because animals are sentient beings, not agricultural products. it is high time we acknowledged this.
mr president, in the bible, the most widely read book in the world, you sometimes come across some very surprising rules about animal welfare. for example, in ancient israel a farmer was not to muzzle an ox while it was threshing, so that the animal could have a snack while it was working. so the mandate to take good care of our animals is one that has been around for ages, but each age has its own challenges. what's important now is to level the playing field. so let us stop importing products that do not meet our animal welfare standards. but let's also make sure we get a fair price. i think that this is an important responsibility for the retailers and also for the consumers. and last but not least, let us continue to work with the sector on new concepts without resorting to unworkable rules. i congratulate mr decerle on his balanced report. and maybe we should start reading the bible more often. even about animal welfare, there's really some very nice stuff in there.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the common position of the european parliament and of the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). the energy crisis is a direct consequence of this energy source. it is also harmful to marine biodiversity. with the plan to install 300 to 450 gigawatts of installed capacity of offshore wind turbines by 2050, the european commission wants to turn our seas into a permanent construction pit. this is about 75,000 wind turbines. the big losers in this energy transition are the taxpayers, the fishermen and the marine life. the only thing left at sea will be fishing for huge subsidies by big investment companies and energy giants. it's taxpayer money. we must stop polluting europe's seas with expensive wind turbines and instead turn to clean, affordable and reliable nuclear energy. i am therefore glad that nuclear energy has been recognised by the commission as a green investment, because that is the only reliable solution. europe does not need a strategy for renewable offshore energy, but a nuclear energy strategy!
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the summit ahead is a huge opportunity. but this opportunity will only become a reality if we take decisive action, not if we simply adopt a resolution. it has been said in the discussion: only a fraction of the african population, 11 to 12 percent, has been vaccinated so far. in many large nations, it is less than 3 percent. we are 900 million doses short of the united nations targets that were set at the end of last year. we have 40 percent of the children in east and southeast africa who cannot go to school right now. an entire generation is at risk of being lost if we don't act. education, health must become the first priority of our debate, of our consistent strategy for mutual partnership. then we must invest in sustainable economic development, in the fight against inequalities on the african continent. then we give the next generation in africa the chance they deserve.
madam president, my expectations are high for the eu—african union summit. the pandemic exposed structural inequalities we need to address together. i hope that during this summit we will take concrete steps towards a true equal partnership, for example with eu support for the development of the intra-african market. equal partnership also means equal and fair access to vaccines. i call upon the eu leaders to deliver on our promise to expand the availability of vaccines in africa. put all the options on the table. do not back away from solutions such as forcing licensing vaccine production for africa or lifting patents. working towards an equal partnership also means engaging with young changemakers. it means providing an environment where we empower youth and women. when we ensure a better economic future for them, an inclusive growth across africa and europe will happen. we are living at a historic moment. let’s ride it together.
madam president, mr high representative, 'effective and mutually beneficial instruments for managing migration': these were the words of the president of the commission, echoing from dakar the greek prime minister's call for legal channels for migrants from africa, on the eve of the summit with the african union in brussels this week. in short, it is expected that in return for a few concessions on illegal immigration, the floodgates will be opened to legal immigration. the french, who are mostly hostile, will appreciate it. as for development aid, although the european court of auditors has undermined its effectiveness in its report on kenya 2020, it will get the lion's share of these discussions, in addition to the new miraculous programme that is a response to the chinese silk road, the global gateway. how could these sophisticated solutions come to fruition without a result? mali is a case study in this regard, as despite us$1.8 billion in official international assistance in 2019, the readmission rate of its migrants from the european union is capped at 2.1%. a scandal that is now being added to by an inexcusable diplomatic confrontation, mocking the sacrifice of french soldiers in the sahel since 2014. in short, everything must change if nothing is to change, and the so-called new deal with africa, with its snorting anglicism, will undoubtedly be a new illustration of this.
the next eu-africa summit, mr president, offers a very good opportunity to give a new impetus to cooperation with africa, and this is badly needed. geopolitics, to counter china, which is increasingly treating africa as a winged vest, but also because it is simply our moral duty to also contribute to the fight against hunger and poverty in the world. i think that the agricultural sector in particular can play a very important role in this. with our knowledge and expertise, we can provide targeted support to african farmers, for example by setting up local cooperatives or improving farming methods. and let us not underestimate the importance of private initiative. meanwhile, many african diplomats are increasingly concerned about something else entirely, namely the passages on sexual and reproductive rights in the draft partnership agreement with the acp countries. it is feared that the eu will force them to legalise abortion along this path. that can't be the point, can it? mr high representative, can you reassure us on that point?
madam president, while some world leaders push hate, vote against rights, ignore horrific crimes against humanity, let inequality and suffering go on, the european union reaffirms its role as a leading global proponent of the promotion and protection of human rights. i am glad that during 2021 we continued to oppose firmly any unjustified restrictions of rights, freedoms and silencing of dissenting voices. what more should be done to address the challenges to human rights? and i am speaking worldwide, as the covid-19 pandemic, economic and social insecurity, continue to shake the world in 2022. defenders of democracy sustain heavy new losses in their struggle against authoritarian regimes, starting with china, with a deteriorating human rights situation and abuses against the uighurs, to the arrests of activists and journalists in belarus. i invite the european union to make full use of its own toolbox at our disposal, including economic leverage in mutual trade relations in order to develop more ambitious support for freedom, good governance and rule of law.
president, mr borrell, on 28 october last i received the following letter: don't worry about it, mr. ruissen. the reappointment of the special envoy for religious freedom has my full attention. the european union is the world's largest exporter of food. we are now four months into the process and the post is still vacant after almost two and a half years. mr. borrell, when will this promise finally be fulfilled? the commission does not have to do it for me. i can go to church every sunday; no one puts a stake in my way. do it for the mayflower christian community that fled china, but now faces deportation by south korea. do it for christians in india, who are constantly facing attacks by hindu extremists. do it for christians in pakistan, who are being held in death cells under blasphemy laws. i am not asking the commission to make any new promises. the promise is in black and white. i'm happy to leave a copy of this letter with you, mr. borrell. all i ask is that earlier promises be honoured and that clarity be given on the timetable.
madam president, we have all witnessed the escalating pressure on ukraine and putin is without doubt playing a very dangerous game of brinkmanship. what is he really trying to achieve? well, nobody knows, besides putin himself. and what we do know is that putting a gun to ukraine’s head is no way to preserve peace in europe or to enhance russia’s security. one misstep, one mistake and putin could unleash a devastating conflict that will jeopardise our collective safety and stability. this is why the union needs to support ukraine in any way we can: complete the list of severe sanctions, increase financial support for ukraine, and enhance the defensive capabilities of ukraine. i commend high representative borrell for his hard work in coordinating also with our transatlantic partners, and i call on our member states to maintain our unity and to stand firm if we want to prevent a new war in europe.
mr president, the last two years, schools were closed, social events cancelled, and many young people had to start their education or first jobs from their bedroom behind a screen. and that is why declaring 2022 the european year of youth can’t just be about using the marketing potential of young people to make the eu look good, it has to bring real improvements in their lives. and most of all, we need to give more security to young people, allowing them to build their lives. we need quality jobs for young people and to work together for an eu directive banning unpaid internships. we need to stop the rise in rents and house prices so that also young people can have an affordable place to live. and we need to ensure accessible mental health support for all young people. let’s make the european year of youth a year for change and not just an empty title.
it is a good day, mr president, but also a sad day for the rule of law in the european union. good, because the european court of justice has confirmed that countries which flout the principles of the rule of law can be deprived of european subsidies and that the legislation we have adopted in this area does not have to be abolished. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. meanwhile, viktor orbán is laughing in his fist, because this lawsuit has yielded exactly what hungary and poland were hoping for: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for 13 months, european money was able to flow unhindered to mr orbán's re-election campaign and the polish government was able to continue its witch hunt on judges without any financial consequences. parliament has again and again made it clear that it expects action from the commission in the very short term, and that it expects both the commission and the council to make compliance with our common rules and respect for our institutions a top priority. we owe this to our taxpayers and to all the disappointed poles and hungarians who have been waiting in vain for our support up to now.
madam president, we are in a union. and in this union, if our common rules and values are not respected by some, it affects us all. when independent judicial checks and balances are not respected, when the functioning of european democracy is at risk, and when the rights of eu citizens are under threat, we must act. this is why the rule of law conditionality mechanism is so important and why member states who do not respect the rule of law should face budgetary consequences. i’m proud that my group, renew europe, stands at the forefront of defending our values. we have been fighting for the rule of law mechanism for years, and now it can finally come into effect. we celebrate this moment today. the commission has had the opportunity to prepare for this adjustment for months, and renew europe, in this house, has asked time and again for the commission to take action. it’s now time to trigger the conditionality mechanism. european citizens demand it. it’s up to you, commissioner, to make sure that the eu’s budget does not end up in the wrong pockets and risk further undermining the rule of law. the credibility of the eu as a whole is at stake, and we expect you to act – not tomorrow, not next week, not next month, but now!
mr vice-president zīle, this is a special moment for you. voorzitter, vrij reizen is een grondrecht van alle europeanen. dit recht staat vanwege de pandemie echter al twee jaar onder druk. dit merken niet alleen vakantiegangers, maar ook mensen die wonen en werken in een grensregio. we hebben daarom hard gewerkt aan de totstandbrenging van het reiscertificaat, dat bedoeld was om het recht van europeanen om tijdens de pandemie vrij te reizen, te garanderen. de lidstaten zijn er echter mee aan de haal gegaan en hebben in de evenementensector en in de horeca allerlei verschillende beperkingen en passagierlokalisatieformulieren ingevoerd. het is een wirwar van reismaatregelen geworden, waardoor het beoogde doel van het reiscertificaat niet kon worden verwezenlijkt. ik wil de commissie er daarom toe oproepen daadwerkelijk voor geharmoniseerde afspraken te zorgen als het reiscertificaat wordt verlengd.
the current toll system in the eu is fragmented and has many political sensitivities. the new eurovignette directive offers a common, ambitious and forward-looking european approach. we are taking a big step towards fairer and greener road transport. whoever pollutes the most, pays the most: this principle is essential to the achievement of our objectives under the green deal. the directive puts a co2 tax on trucks at the heart of it, because it allows us to further stimulate the transition to zero-emission trucks. in addition, the proceeds from the eurovignette are invested in modern and safe roads, and thus in the safety of all road users.
mr president, the courageous ukrainian people are standing up to an evil act of aggression. europe answers ukraine’s call for help. we rise up to defend those who are fighting for freedom and democracy. the eu is showing unity and we are finally showing that we are not just a soft power. we are crippling russia’s economy, isolating putin’s regime and reinforcing ukraine’s defence. but this is just the start and we have to do more by excluding more russian operators and banks from swift, by blocking the russian central bank’s use of western currencies – and we should even consider blocking russian ships in our harbours and more. also, we have to increase our support for ukraine’s economy and defence with money and weapons. my message to the ukrainian people: europe stands with you. slava ukraini!
president, commissioner ferreira, ladies and gentlemen, european cities and regions are facing enormous challenges. i thought first of all about making houses more sustainable, adapting infrastructure, sustainable transport, and of course not forgetting: covid-19 is out. look at the health care industry or the tourism industry. there is a lot to catch up with and the cohesion funds can help with that. so it's time we really start thinking about that and start implementing it. but of course, now more than ever, the flow of refugees from ukraine is topical. i am very pleased, commissioner ferreira, that you have promised to look at how the cohesion funds can contribute to this. because this crisis is the first one we have to face. it is therefore important that the member states contribute to this as soon as possible, and i am glad that you are playing a major role in this.
madam president, the european union's common agricultural policy is designed to ensure food security. and what will be the food security situation in a situation where we have the occupation of ukraine by russia, where thousands of refugees are fleeing from ukraine to europe, and where agricultural production has actually stopped in ukraine and russia? should we fear a food crisis? i'd take a few numbers. together with ukraine, russia accounts for more than 30% of world trade in wheat and barley, 17% of world trade in maize and more than 50% of world trade in sunflower oil. of course there will be some impact, especially in terms of global trade, but there is no immediate crisis for the european union and certainly this cannot be a reason for us to reduce our solidarity with the refugees from ukraine and with the people in ukraine. in any case, the cap and its reform is the right response to the climate challenge. what we can consider is moving some of the dates, but we shouldn't abandon it.
that concludes the item.
the sitting is closed and it will resume tomorrow, tuesday, 8 march, at 9.00 with the debate on the report by ms kalniete on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union, including disinformation. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament website.
i declare closed the 2021-2022 session of the european parliament.
i declare the 2022-2023 session of the european parliament open.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to rule 237a on extraordinary measures. according to this rule, parliament may, ‘in exceptional and unforeseeable circumstances beyond its control, make a temporary derogation from parliament’s usual procedures.’ scientists have said that the effect of the covid pass on transmission is close to zero, even though global data confirms that the pandemic has ended and we have now entered an endemic phase without serious risk to life and health. now that belgium and france return to normal, the time has come for the european parliament to also return to its normal and usual procedures. it doesn’t make any sense to think there is a normal world outside the parliament where we can get together in bars and restaurants without masks, without social distancing and without covid passes, but it’s too dangerous and unsafe within the parliament and that we still need these restrictions. dear president, there is no logic in continuing extraordinary measures, not even a tiny bit. let’s end these restrictions today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for too many years in europe we have underestimated the problem of foreign interference in our democracies and have not considered the disastrous consequences that would have had and which, unfortunately, have had, as the images of war in these days confirm. attempts at foreign interference are increasing worldwide and are becoming more sophisticated, in part thanks to the use of artificial intelligence. it is not always easy to identify them because they take on different forms and often also find allies and accomplices within the systems to be conditioned. we need to be aware of this risk and we need to make our communities more resilient and more ready to repel any form of attack. today, with the work of the inge committee, parliament wants to send a strong signal to citizens and institutions, but also to those countries which for years have taken advantage of our low guard to spread and amplify messages of hatred and disinformation, to feed fears and fragility, to delegitimize a system and weaken a model such as the european one. the european union is indeed a scary thing: our democracy, our standards of freedom and human rights, our economic prosperity are all things that frighten those countries that make coercion and fear the only means of controlling their populations. today we decide to be more vigilant, to be more vigilant and to start a process which will enable the european union and its member states to develop a coordinated strategy to combat foreign interference and to defend themselves against those who manipulate information to their own advantage and spread lies. we must defend our model and be a reference for other democratic countries outside the european union, so that they can protect themselves from external attacks and threats.
madam chairman! the fight against disinformation and fake news has never been more important. we are seeing just now how putin's propaganda machine is an active party in the war in ukraine. disinformation is a direct threat to our free and democratic world and has become the preferred tool of authoritarian regimes in undermining electoral outcomes, citizens' decisions and public trust. we must not turn a blind eye to this. that is why i welcome the many good proposals in the inge report. as rapporteur for the dsa, i particularly welcome the report's focus on the role of social media in the spread of disinformation. for too long, social media algorithms have been spreading hate, division and fake news. instead of removing or toning down problematic content and the accounts that spread it, social media has created an algorithmic megaphone that gets that content out to even more people. and at the same time, they've made money on this business model of spreading these malicious algorithms. this has to stop now. many of the good proposals in the report i am fighting to get into the final dsa legislation: the algorithms must be made transparent, the platforms must be accountable, we must have removed the 'dark patterns' and we must clearly label 'deep fake' and online advertising. we must ban advertising to minors and then we must look at the business models of the platforms, because they are partly responsible for the problem we have. better today than tomorrow.
madam president, i would like to speak to you about the nicts. these four letters were until recently the pride of our democracies. the new information and communication technologies enabled the greatest number of our citizens to be informed, to exchange information and to live. i say "allowed" because these four letters are now twisted, corrupted by democracies like china, venezuela and, of course, russia. these countries manipulate, falsify, and twist the truth. these countries are interfering with our democratic processes -- we saw it with the brexit referendum, the italian referendum in 2016, the french presidential election in 2017. they would even use it to finance political forces present here in this parliament. investigations are ongoing. if recent events push these forces - as we heard this morning - to sudden conversions, so much the better. the dragon heads of modern times are xi jinping, nicolas maduro and vladimir putin. they want the death of our democracies. for our elections, for political advertising, we must impose new rules, madam president, dear eva, with firmness. let's join forces to defeat these multi-headed dragons.
madam president, the report is very timely, and it has a wealth of recommendations. starting from our own institutions, we need to be much more aware that some meps have become channels of undue foreign influence. those travelling to authoritarian countries to observe fake elections should be sanctioned much more severely than is now the case, and the so-called friendship groups should be made much more transparent and accountable. the report also names and shames a number of members of political elites who have been captures in the service of authoritarian regimes, including two former finnish prime ministers, paavo lipponen and esko aho, who have both long worked to advance putin’s political and economic interests in europe. in hindsight, the warfare by russia against ukraine is a logical continuation of information warfare. we admire the courageous ukrainian resistance but, at the same time, in russia a distorted version of reality prevails. seventeen russian—speaking writers, among them nobel laureate svetlana alexievich, have started an appeal to all russian language speakers in the world to use all possible means of communication to contact directly their acquaintances and friends living in russia, telling them the truth about the war and about the tragic shelling of civilians. nobel laureate dmitry muratov stressed in a hearing last week in this parliament that there is another russia to the one represented by putin and his cronies. we must inspire the whole of society to combat the lies and disinformation.
what is the name of a government which is so concerned with what can be said and what cannot, what is true and what is not? of course, freedom of speech ends where preaching violence begins, but the survival of democracy requires debate, requires people to take a punch, requires people to be able to say what they think. the european union is committed to combating disinformation. a dangerous path, a path that leads to censorship. dutch 'fact-checkers' ticked people off when they said the european union was developing a qr passport. a little later, that "fake news" became reality. the fact-checkers were wrong. the lesson: caution is in order. of course, we are also against russian propaganda, but we must be the ones to stand up for freedom of expression. the european union is in danger of becoming the very thing it is trying to combat! a government that interferes too much with what citizens say and whether that's true, that's a government i call communist. our beautiful, democratic europe deserves better than this.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, at our borders, putin is putting the lives of millions of people at risk. his brutal invasion targets the citizens of ukraine violating international humanitarian law, and people are desperately seeking protection. it is unprecedented how quickly the number of refugees keeps growing, and the eu’s response is unprecedented as well, with the activation of the temporary protection directive. we applaud the commission and council for the swift and united response to give their full support to the refugees and their families. it will only work, however, if every member state is ready to host a substantial number of refugees. so let the weakest part of the directive, namely the voluntariness, not become the obstacle for an effective and humanitarian response. coordination, funding and guidance by the commission will be much needed. it is encouraging that the council includes refugees who lived in ukraine, but all people fleeing ukraine must be safe. referring third—country nationals, even if they lived permanently in ukraine, to their region of origin, creates huge insecurities and risks, and in our view, this is unjustified, so please do not make any distinction. and this also goes for the border. we hear and see discrimination on skin colour, ethnic background, gender and sexual identity. we need agencies and international organisations to ensure equal treatment and to take care for the vulnerable people. the heartening hospitality of citizens will not be sufficient with the rising numbers and vulnerabilities, and the commissioner already also referred to the risk of trafficking for minors. member states should therefore organise a safe route to hosting locations. and zelenskyy was right when he called the transport of refugees to belarus and russia immoral, because who wants to find refuge in a country of your own invader? so we must help them, but also the russian citizens under pressure to find protection in our countries. refugees from ukraine deserve our unconditional support, no matter how long, no matter how many. but let me be very clear. being forced to flee means the same misery, despair and fear wherever you are in the world. let this war at our doorstep not distract us from the needs and rights of refugees from other countries. do not believe politicians who make us believe that protection for the one means less protection for the other. if we equally share our global responsibility, we can offer every refugee the protection that she or he needs and deserves.
mr president, barbaric scenes are unfolding as putin’s illegal invasion is escalating. terrible violence against innocent ukrainians is on full display at our own borders. people are fleeing from burning cities. it is without question that we need to give them a safe place. and europe is taking responsibility. we see countless initiatives of eu citizens to show solidarity. it is our duty to organise this well. that means full financial and operational support to member states at the borders of ukraine, also by participation of eu agencies like easo and frontex. members states need to show solidarity too, by reallocation of refugees. we have to set an example in organising a safe place for refugees in our own region. the eu is united and together we will manage this for the safety of the people of ukraine.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, europe’s response to the russian aggression was almost united – almost. while the rest of europe was discussing sanctions, bosnian serb leader dodik talked with the russian ambassador and with minister lavrov. this continuous flirting with putin reconfirms his disinterest in democracy, international order and european security. yet the brutal invasion in ukraine shows the need to more strongly combat russian interference in the balkans, as it directly threatens european security. the long—overdue sanctions for dodik’s secessionist aggression must be imposed right away, including financial ones. so thanks, commissioner, for your clear position on that; it’s a first step. bosnian citizens have become truly scared, reliving their traumas from the 1990s. russian influence and interference also moves them further away from the eu perspective, which is devastating for their right to live in a stable and fully—fledged democracy. yet strong support for bosnian civil society and the eu integration process right now would really increase their trust in the eu and in a democratic and prosperous future. let us strongly engage with the citizens, with civil society and, as a first step, ensure free and fair elections in october. that would be the best and most promising medicine against russian interference.
mr president, let me be very clear: we need to get rid of the russian gas. it is not only undesirable, but even immoral to continue to plunder putin's coffers in this day and age. and those who think that the prices have only just been raised by sanctions, make no mistake: the prices were already high. putin's been rigging gas prices for a while. we must get rid of such manipulative practices as soon as possible. how are we gonna do that? we have seen a wonderful plan today, repowereu, a realistic plan to reduce gas from russia by two thirds this year. and let us not forget: one of the best solutions we have already exists, and it's called the european green deal, our medium-term plan. in addition, there are certainly still large gains to be made in the field of energy saving. energy you don't consume, you don't have to import. for example, the demand for gas can be reduced by about ten billion cubic meters by lowering the thermostat by one degree. let energy efficiency and energy conservation be acts of resistance against russian aggression. it's time to act. let us not allow our households, vulnerable groups and small and mediumsized enterprises to suffer the consequences of the high energy prices imposed by russia. and that starts with strategic independence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. millions of europeans are thinking twice these days about whether they can still fill their cars with petrol or turn up the heat. consumer prices for oil and gas are at an all-time high. yes, the situation on the world market is tense, no question. the bitter truth is that the government is making energy expensive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the crisis. taxes and levies account for almost 70%. the state is shamelessly enriching itself at the expense of its citizens in this energy crisis. the green tax and carbon pricing are imposing a huge burden on low-income households. they're highly antisocial. energy, ladies and gentlemen, must remain affordable for all. i therefore call on the german government to abolish the absurd and harmful eco-tax and the carbon tax immediately. the eu commission is now obliged to include oil and gas in the list for reduced vat, up to a zero rate, in order to allow member states a significant reduction and to cushion the effects of the crisis on the world market for the people.
president, commissioner, the political attention paid to making our energy system cleaner has been justifiably high in recent years. but at the same time, we have left too much to the market in terms of affordability and security of supply. and we see that in the energy bill, in the pump, and in our dependence on russia. it is morally unacceptable for me, in these dark days on our continent, that we are contributing 600 million euros a day to putin's war by importing gas and oil. we need to reduce that dependence quickly. but it's not easy. that is why we need realpolitik in our energy policy. question to countries that wanted to close nuclear plants: keep them open. demand from gas producing countries: give us more, and ask households and businesses to turn down the heat. let us accelerate solar, wind and hydrogen projects and better connect the energy systems of the european countries. europe has awoken from its geopolitical and strategic hibernation. we must be much more capable of generating our own energy, of defending our own european territory and of producing essential products such as medicines, batteries and computer chips ourselves. it's really time we start taking responsibility for our place in the world again.
president, commissioner, with the energy transition the european union has made itself completely dependent on russian gas. i have already mentioned that commissioner timmermans' climate plans are an irresponsible experiment with our economy. with the russian attack on ukraine, that prediction has quickly come true. yet commissioner timmermans said yesterday that we still need to meet the previously set climate target of 55 percent less co2 emissions by 2030. in fact, he says that goal is the solution, not the problem! but energy prices are exploding and a deep recession is looming. life is becoming priceless. not the energy transition, but the supply of affordable and reliable energy must now be a top priority. i therefore call on the commission: stop the green deal and focus on affordable and reliable energy. the only solution is to reopen immediately closed nuclear power stations, to immediately start using closed or downsized coal plants, to immediately start using our own gas fields. because necessity breaks the law.
president, vera, why do you keep worrying about women's rights? there's a war going on in europe. this is a question i get asked more and more often, and in fact always, when it comes to gender equality. at the moment, european women and men are fighting in ukraine for their country, trying to save their children and bring them to safety. some women are even forced to give birth in the subway. in any crisis, whether it's war or a pandemic, it's women who are hit hardest. every time. the numbers speak for themselves. but when it comes to the strategic choice of a safe life for you and your family, women are either not at the table or are severely underrepresented. the number of women active in politics is still uneven in all eu member states. female politicians are more often the target of harassment, especially on social media. it discourages them from taking an active part in politics and participating in democratic decision-making. in my own country, the netherlands, that equality is also sad. there's a local election next week. on average, three out of ten councillors are women, and that's in 2022! this has to be different. it is in the direct interest of our democracy that people be represented equally. here in the european parliament and beyond.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let me make one thing clear: what the russian regime and putin have done here, namely to wage a war of aggression, where there is also a blood toll among the civilian population, must be condemned in every form. war can never be a solution. but the way this house has reacted to this with a resolution is also, for me, throwing oil on the fire and the wrong way. i would like to illustrate this with a few examples. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to find a way out of the crisis. another example: bringing ukraine into the european union by express procedure is also the wrong way to go. how many of the european criteria do you want to throw out? you have thrown dublin overboard, you have thrown schengen overboard, you have thrown maastricht overboard and now copenhagen with the copenhagen criteria. does this european framework no longer count at all? and the third case is the history of sanctions, where, in my view, the leyens and bidens and the heads of state are not taking much damage here. no, it's the people outside who have to pay over 2 euros, sometimes 2.50 euros for the litre of fuel. i'm all for doing everything we can to de-escalate. i am in favour of a proposal by ukraine, which is now on the table, to declare itself neutral, as a proper way forward. ... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker.)
president, madam prime minister, mr high representative, the war in ukraine has put us under a very heavy burden. war in europe? that was a thing of the past. invest in defense? all that was no longer necessary, found a lot of parties. we know better now. the rudder must be turned, that much is clear. no, not by creating a new european command structure, let alone a european army, but by military cooperation and coordination between member states. for our defense, we already have an excellent partnership. that is nato. let us cherish that and above all invest in it. it is also up to the member states to take their responsibility. we need money. in fact, it takes a lot of money! germany has finally woken up with its 100 billion euro recovery operation. but us? where's the rest of it? the nato standard of 2% of gdp is not something we have for nothing. russia is a great danger to world peace. we must guard against that.
madam president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the recent crises that have hit the world and the european union have exposed a number of problems that were previously under-recognised. not only did we wake up to a new world after this war started, but we also saw things again. we can now see more clearly all the manipulations, lies, deceits and crimes of the great dictator. despite the enormous fears and challenges of war, we still need to pay sufficient attention to environmental challenges. we cannot postpone the problems of the future because we are running out of time. this will require many changes in our conduct and way of life. we have developed an over-dependence on other countries in many important areas, from energy, to the lack of ingredients for medicines and components for modern technologies, not to mention food security. batteries are a key technology for europe's energy transition. so we need a new strategic approach to their production, their use, and even their decomposition. in addition to the positive aspects, batteries also have a detrimental impact on the environment. our dependence on scarce natural resources in various fields requires that we be even more careful with what we have. the circular economy for sustainable development and the reuse of strategic materials are a hugely important part of our future. by setting and respecting sustainability criteria and with the cooperation of producers and users, while respecting the relevant legislation, we will take steps in the right direction.
mr president, commissioner, the eu urgently needs a new battery regulation as the electrification of transport progresses at a rapid pace and as the production and demand for batteries increase. i am pleased that parliament's report sends a strong signal to promote sustainable battery production in europe, which is crucial both for investment and security of supply and for the reduction of emissions targets. the increasing demand for batteries is putting pressure on the availability of raw materials. in view of the growing demand, it is important to ensure the responsible production of batteries, which is balanced in the parliament's report. it is also positive that the report emphasizes the use and development of new innovative raw materials in battery production. wood-based lignin is a good example of such a new, sustainable material that contributes to sustainability and the circular economy of the battery industry. new forms of transport, such as electric bicycles and electric scooters, have exploded in recent times. it is good that the ambitious recycling targets of the regulation have been extended to include batteries for light transport in order to ensure efficient and large-scale recycling in the sector. in addition, the flexibility for producers and producer organisations regarding battery waste streams ensures that already efficient recycling schemes will also be able to move easily under this new regulation. the new battery regulation will create sustainable growth and new investment in europe.
president. - thank you for your report. when we talk in this parliament about the circular economy, the farmer-to-the-table strategy or the green deal, the targets often cannot be high enough. i think it is important to have a realistic policy. policies that promote food security rather than undermine it. a policy that allows my constituents to pay their energy bills and have money left over at the end of the month. policies that put the citizen at the centre instead of the bureaucratic plans of the european union. i often have to vote against bills. proposals that do not make the lives of citizens better, but much more expensive. today, however, things are different. the report we are discussing today deals with the sustainability of batteries, among other things, and i intend to vote in favour of that bill. not because i think climate change is necessary. in fact, i think it is an exercise which is going to cost european citizens a lot of money and hit our economies very hard. but if the eu wants that transition to be necessary, then let it not cause additional environmental damage in other parts of the world. and under no circumstances should child labour be used to bring about the transition. for these reasons, i shall vote in favour of the bill.
madam president, in 2021 in mexico many journalists were killed, but also 42 human rights defenders, of whom 30 were defenders of the rights of the original peoples on their ancestral lands. obviously, mexico must improve its inadequate mechanism for the protection of human rights defenders and journalists, but the union must also be fully committed to this endeavour. we need, first, the european union delegations in countries like mexico to be involved in the effective implementation of the council guidelines for the protection of human rights defenders. and secondly, the union cannot accept the projects of large european companies in mexico and the rest of latin america which violate the rights of indigenous peoples, which degrade the environment, which damage labour rights, which undermine the rule of law, including the involvement of organised crime, or which establish a neo-colonial economic structure. the future work in this parliament on the directive on due diligence is therefore of great importance and must take all these objectives into account.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to support the motion for a resolution on this point. i think it's extremely important to respond to the situation in mexico. this is all the more important because mexico is our key partner in latin america. it's a long-standing business partner, a political partner, a major country, and the situation has been getting worse recently in mexico with respect to human rights defenders and journalists. it's been said right here, there's no point in repeating the facts, the facts are truly tragic. six journalists have been killed in the first half of this year alone, and the situation is unfortunately getting worse. we must ask the president, who is one of the causes of this unhappy state, that the state, the political representation, begin to address the situation, that the justice system begin to investigate these cases, because most of these murders are not investigated. and we need to connect that to our dialogue between the european union and mexico and we need to connect that to mutually beneficial trade. it is not possible to do business with a country where journalists and human rights defenders are subjected to such violence.
madam president, i would like to thank you. maría de lourdes maldonado lópez, margarito martínez, josé luis gamboa, ever lópez vázquez, roberto toledo just to name some of the journalists and media workers who have been murdered in mexico in recent years. mexico is the most dangerous place in the world for journalists, except for the world's war zones. since 2018, the situation has deteriorated. in total, 47 journalists have been murdered. journalists who investigate corruption by officials or drug cartels live in particular peril. since taking office in 2018, mexican president lópez obrador has humiliated and threatened independent journalists in his daily press conferences. under the pretext of countering fake news, the government has set up a state media platform to attack investigative journalism. in total, at least 68 human rights activists have been murdered. violence against women is widespread and femicide is common. environmental, indigenous and women's rights activists are particularly vulnerable. the mexican government must take concrete measures to ensure that journalists can work without fear of reprisals. the eu and its member states now have a special responsibility to put the issue at the top of the agenda in their dialogues with mexico.
aachtaráin, tá bród orm labhairt as gaeilge is a debate that has been going on for some time now. mexico is the place in the world where there are no foreigners, outside of official war zones. the courses are held in august and october, and the participants are invited to attend the courses in august. you're gonna make it worse, and nobody's gonna want to get in your way. they were not pioneers of 90% of the irish and mexican immigrants. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the mexican authorities have indicated that an alien has been arrested. we are acting on behalf of mexico to fulfill its obligations and to take appropriate action to ensure that our citizens are protected and kept safe.
madam president, the growing stigmatisation, the weakening of institutions, the increase in violence and the diffuse impunity all provide a clear message: in mexico, the press and freedom of expression overall are under siege. since his election in 2018, lópez obrador has not only failed to improve the country's human rights record, but he has allowed the loss of many of the hard-fought gains activists, rights groups and campaigners have achieved since the end of one-party rule in mexico. the western world, the european union included, has been noticeably silent regarding these accelerating attacks on democracy and fundamental rights. so far, the democratic clause of the global agreement has not resulted in any decisions or measures that help alleviate the continuous violation of human rights. if journalists and activists, especially activists for indigenous people’s human rights, are deliberately targeted and threatened while those who attacked them go unpunished, democracy itself is also under threat. as we are working at the modernisation of our joint comprehensive agreement, we need to be clear with the representatives – mexico is a long-standing and, we stress in our resolution, vital partner of the eu – that the prospect of ratification is heavily reliant on improvement on human rights and on the government's clear commitment to international standards and obligation. ¡derechos y libertad para todos los periodistas y los activistas mexicanos! ¡no estáis solos!
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, journalists and human rights defenders are central to functioning democracies. they are key in holding governments and societies to account and speaking up for those who otherwise would not have a voice. mexico is one of the eu’s strategic partners and a like-minded partner in multilateral fora, and currently we extend our gratitude and appreciation for mexico’s support in condemning russian aggression and standing up for ukraine’s sovereignty and its democracy at the un security council, the general assembly and the human rights council. the protection of human rights and upholding the rule of law and accountability are part of the government’s declared political objectives, but mexico continues to face serious challenges in the implementation of its human rights legal framework. the most significant threat to the promotion and protection of human rights remains organised crime. the current situation as regards journalists is especially worrying. we are highly concerned about the rising number of assassinations and attacks against journalists and human rights defenders in mexico and about the hostile environment in which they work and risk their lives. the press can never be fully free if journalists are facing harassment, attacks or even mortal danger while doing their jobs. mexico’s federal mechanism for the protection of journalists and human rights defenders, launched in 2012, is an interesting model. however, the death toll suggests that a far more comprehensive effort is needed if the challenge of violence against journalists is to be successfully addressed. we regularly address these issues with the mexican authorities with regard to the human rights situation, as well as specific cases of human rights defenders and journalists, both in a dedicated human rights dialogue and in other contexts. as well as speaking out clearly against this violence, we engage continuously through our delegation in mexico city with civil society, human rights defenders, journalists and international actors. this is in order to show our support and to raise awareness about the need for further action to address the current situation. we also provide practical, financial and technical support to the largest extent possible. governments can never be fully accountable if human rights defenders and journalists cannot carry out their work safely. attacks against journalists and human rights defenders are therefore a threat to the foundation of our democracies. when they come under attack, effective protection must be provided, and the perpetrators of such attacks must be brought to justice. the fight against impunity is therefore a key priority to stop threats and attacks against journalists. if not addressed, the silencing of journalists and human rights defenders is bound to continue. we welcome the european parliament’s strong commitment on this issue and reiterate the eu’s commitment to cooperating and working with mexico to foster the protection of human rights defenders and journalists, both with concrete projects on the ground and with dialogue, including our regular high-level dialogues on human rights and civil society seminars.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on myanmar, one year after the coup (2022/2581(rsp))*. _______________* see minutes.
author. – madam president, one year on from the coup in myanmar, the situation there remains critical. we continue to condemn in the strongest possible terms the coup executed by the military in myanmar in february of last year and call for the reinstatement of the elected government. since they seized power, the military have implemented a series of severe restrictions on freedoms and everyday life. they have shown little respect for human rights and are causing untold suffering for the people of myanmar. particularly concerning are reports of killings and unlawful arrests of peaceful pro-democracy protesters. the office of the un high commissioner for human rights estimates that at least 1 500 people have been killed and over 11 000 arrested since the military seized power last year. the humanitarian situation in myanmar is dire, with reports of a systematic and sustained attacks on the rohingya, christians and other groups perpetrated by the military government. with regard to everyday life, the government has imposed a number of extreme restrictions on personal freedoms, including freedom of expression and access to media and information. women’s rights also have been seriously curtailed since the military took power, with the women subject to widespread detention, sexual assault, gender-based violence and in some cases killings. the government has also exploited the covid-19 pandemic to facilitate a crackdown on pro-democracy activists, a trend which is extremely concerning. it is imperative that former leaders – the president and the state counsellor – are immediately and unconditionally released and the results of the democratic elections of november 2020 are respected. although myanmar’s former government did not demonstrate full respect for human rights either, they represented the only viable alternative to the current military rule. it is crucial, therefore, that we, the international community, do everything in our power to halt the systematic human rights abuses that are occurring in myanmar.
author. – madam president, one year after the military coup of 1 february 2021, we can see that the situation is very dire and that we need to add to the pressure against the military junta. we as parliament welcome sanctions which have now come to four rounds, but we would demand that more needs to be done as for sanctions. we can still add, for instance, the state administrative council to the list as an entity, not just as a person. we welcome the fact that now, finally, the council has added the national oil and gas company, moge, to the sanctions. but we demand that a derogation allowing european oil and gas companies to operate and conduct transactions in the country be removed. so what more can be done? i believe that it's very important to point out to european businesses that they should not mix with anything in the business of myanmar which touches the interests and adds to the interests of the army, the tatmadaw. and finally, i want to say that we need to find support for the refugees fleeing the country. we especially need to expect that there will be no forced returns to thailand, china and india as neighbouring countries.
the war in ukraine demands almost all our attention. we'd almost forget that other parts of the world have terrible things going on. as in myanmar, where a coup d'état took place over a year ago and violently crushed the still fragile democracy. the sad balance after one year: more than 7 000 targeted attacks on civilians by the military; nearly 1 500 people were killed, including women and children; hundreds of thousands of people fleeing their own country; dozens of documented reports of attacks on churches and other religious institutions; religious leaders have been killed or arrested; the military is blocking the entry of humanitarian aid; there 's a shortage of everything ... fortunately, the council introduced a new round of sanctions earlier this year. i urge the council to continue this and, together with the international community, to increase pressure on the military junta to stop the violence and to stop blocking the delivery of humanitarian aid. the government of national unity, as the legitimate representative of the democratic aspirations of the people of myanmar, should also be involved in an inclusive political dialogue and in the search for a peaceful solution to the crisis. the people of myanmar must also be able to count on us!
madam president, armenia and azerbaijan agreed to a cessation of hostilities, but are still a long way from peace. the destruction of the cultural heritage in nagorno-karabakh, known as the republic of artsakh, is a clear example of this. the long-running conflict has had a catastrophic impact on the cultural heritage of the region. azerbaijan needs to actively protect the armenian cultural heritage in and around the republic of artsakh and stop its destruction. it's our duty to ensure the transmission to future generations of the cultural and natural heritage. no development can be sustainable without a strong cultural component. indeed, only an approach to development based on mutual respect and open dialogue among cultures can lead to lasting peace. i urge the european parliament and the european commission to use its powers and influence to prevent and punish acts of vandalism and desecration affecting armenian cultural heritage in nagorno-karabakh.
madam president, the reality of today shows us that history, identity, culture and religions matter. manipulation, falsification and destruction of historical heritage leads to hate, discrimination and violence. the war of putin against ukraine proves this one more time. he's also using these ugly instruments of history manipulation for justification of these terrible actions. reconciliation can be achieved only by reaching mutual trust. the topic of the destruction of cultural heritage in nagorno-karabakh against armenians is just one example of how important is trust. the destruction of any cultural heritage sites, artefacts and objects contributes to the escalation of hostilities, lack of mutual understanding and prejudice between and within societies. on the contrary, the respect of minorities, which is one of our core values, includes the protection of their cultural identity and heritage. the urgency resolution which we are voting today welcomes the unesco proposal to send an independent experts’ mission to visit nagorno-karabakh and assess the situation on the ground. we request further that international experts be given unhindered access by azerbaijan to all cultural sites for a proper inventory to be carried out. it is critical to remember that the protection, rebuilding and restoration of historical heritage and religious heritage should be seen in the broader framework of the conflict resolution between armenia and azerbaijan, and needs to be requested, supported and welcome. this process includes also the condemnation of any destructions of cultural, religious and historical sites, regardless of whether this happened in the past or in the present day, or by whom. the new generations need to have a peaceful and secure future without the hate from the past.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, armenia has a very rich history. it was the first country in the world to declare christianity the national religion in the fourth century after christ. many thousands of sites, including in nagorno-karabakh, are reminders of this. the long-running conflict with azerbaijan is now putting this cultural and religious heritage in great danger. many monuments have been damaged or destroyed. armenian traces are being erased by albanization of cultural heritage. it is a direct attempt to falsify history! with our joint resolution, we make a clear statement today: 1) the eu should address azerbaijan firmly for the systematic destruction of its cultural heritage; (2) an independent investigation mission is necessary to take an inventory of the damage on the spot; the european union must not allow the soviet union to continue to be a party to the conflict. the destruction of cultural and religious heritage in nagorno-karabakh must stop!
madam president, putin’s unjustified, brutal war against the innocent people of ukraine continues to rage. the sheer bravery, dedication and determination of the ukrainian people is awe-inspiring. we all feel the need to show our solidarity with ukraine. we can do so by helping the ukrainian people on the frontline of the battle for democracy. financial, humanitarian and military aid must continue to flow. the eu has shown its determination and unity so far, and renew europe applauds this. but let me be clear, renew europe wants to continue with imposing strict and coordinated sanctions aimed at putin and his regime. the eu leaders will meet again for a fifth package of sanctions. my message is this: the cost for russia must continue to go up. no price is too high to prevail democracy. the longer the war lasts, the more we will be tested in our unity and solidarity towards the ukraine. we already see the negative impact of the war in the rising prices of food and energy. and yes, we must mitigate these consequences to our citizens and businesses. however, this cannot become an excuse to back down. let us always remember that it’s the ukrainian people who suffer the most and they are fighting our fight.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i should like to welcome prime minister trudeau to the european parliament. welcome to the house of european democracy. as a member of our liberal family, renew europe is particularly honoured to have you here in our midst. the west is not a geographical place. it’s a set of values and institutions. it entails freedom, democracy and the rule of law. we share this, prime minister, your great nation and our union we hold so dear. we are partners and allies bound to each other through history, tradition and shared values. brave canadians have sacrificed their lives on this continent, defending our freedom. because of putin’s brutal war, people are dying on this continent once again, defending freedom and democracy, and this is unacceptable. and together we stand with the brave ukrainian people. autocracy is gaining ground. the ‘end of history’ has been postponed. autocratic dictators around the world are trying to undo the rules-based world older. they are threatening our way of life. democrats need to stand firm. we should stand shoulder to shoulder and confront this fundamental threat together. transatlantic relations should be at the core of our common stance once more. your leadership and engagement has set a strong example. canada has stood firm with this continent in a time of need, and in need we find ourselves once more, prime minister. as long as putin does not cross the ‘golden bridge to retreat’, we need to act swiftly with a firm hand and act as one. peacefulness, predictability and putin do not go hand-in-hand. we see the world with new eyes now, and complacency is a luxury we can no longer afford. whether in the arctic or in the baltics, our alliance must hold. we must work together to further isolate putin’s economy. we need to help each other in gaining energy independence so we can stop financing putin’s war. and we need to remain strongly committed to our defence of the nato alliance. this also means living up to the 2% spending norm. this is a sensitive topic amongst many members of our alliance, but i think we need to be clear: freedom does not come cheap. and yes, this european union will need to step up its effort to build a strong military pillar within nato. the eu and nato are not two separate security providers. we are both united and complementary. let me finish, dear prime minister, by echoing statements made by your government. we will not stand idly by while a nation seeks to erode the international norms that have kept us safe since the end of world war ii. dear prime minister, we share a long, common history. we are partners, allies and friends. once again, we face a common threat. once again, we shall stand together as one. once again, in unity, we shall overcome.
madam president, first and foremost, i would like to emphasise that the european green deal and its underlying strategies will make our food system in europe more resilient in the long run. and i am therefore a bit amazed by the epp attempt to use this crisis to undermine and delay the european green deal, the farm-to—fork strategy and the biodiversity strategy. we should stay on track to reach the goals we set out in the european green deal. that being said, in the light of the current crisis, we need, yes, some more flexibility to ensure food supply and food security in europe as well as outside europe. and i fully support the eu’s willingness to help third countries when necessary. many countries, especially in africa, are largely dependent on agricultural products like wheat from russia and ukraine. supporting them and sharing our knowledge and expertise with other countries can make their food production more resilient and lower their dependence on russia and ukraine. besides temporary measures to increase our own production, we should also realise that there are other ways to improve our food system. healthier diets, wasting less and greater biodiversity are just a few measures which can make a huge difference.
madam president, every day we europeans keep funding putin’s war by importing russian fossil fuels. this is completely unacceptable, unsustainable and also an immoral situation. since the beginning of the eu energy union and the russian occupation in crimea, there have been efforts to decrease our energy dependency on russia. however, the direction has been the opposite. the energy dependency rate is now at a record high level. this is a huge failure. the eu member states should now unite on energy policy in the same way they have united on security and defence in the past weeks. the member states should together stop russian gas, oil and coal imports to europe as soon as possible. the only sustainable way to ensure stable energy prices and security of supply in europe in the future is to encourage investments in all viable clean forms of energy production, including nuclear energy. we can’t afford to miss the decarbonisation benefits of any available alternatives.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, get ready, because we are going to have a hard landing. the energy market is liquid. there's a total panic going on. the southern socialist governments want to decouple the price of gas from the price of electricity. they also want to set a price ceiling. these are solutions from pandora's box, short-term solutions which seem harmless, but which will actually jeopardise the supply of affordable and reliable energy to european households and businesses. for 20 years we have been building a system of a common european energy market. the stupidest thing we can do right now is to throw this system overboard, because no one, really no one can overlook the consequences of that. instead, we need to do two things: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community's energy systems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the ipcc is very clear: we have no time to waste. the previous ipcc report already stated that everything needs to be done to combat climate change. we only have a small window to secure a liveable future, and this window is closing. how many times do we still have to tell each other we need to do more, we need to act now, take leadership, lead by example? also now, the ipcc report stresses again and again the urgency to limit global warming to 1.5°c. why? because limiting global warming reduces the number of people both exposed to climate-related risks and poverty, and has a much-needed impact on our biodiversity and our vital ecosystems. not to be dramatic, but our livelihood depends on it. i believe that the eu has the resources and know—how to make the energy transition a success. this means investing in the right plans and technologies. accelerating the energy transition is crucial, which will not lead to a carbon decrease in the eu but also help other regions in the world jump on the green wagon. we’ve seen this for wind, we’ve seen this for solar, we’ve seen this for batteries. these technologies became cheaper because of innovation. however, as mr timmermans has stated, probably we need to ramp up our global ambitions. and i wanted to ask the commissioner here: what do you think we can do globally to accelerate our plans? what is our message towards the cop 27? but i want to say something to my colleagues here in the room, because this report is a wake-up call, and i know that decarbonising from also a strategic perspective, will increase our autonomy, make us more resilient. so, please, stop pushing for delays, and get yourself behind the european green deal – our way of a secure, resilient and carbon—free future for the eu.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. the market stability reserve, in place since 2019, as executive vice-president timmermans has just reminded us, addresses the structural imbalance between the supply of and demand for allowances on the market, with the aim to stabilise the market by removing surplus allowance from it. the reserve functions by triggering adjustments to the annual auctions volumes. last year, as part of the fit for 55 package, the commission proposed also the first review of the ets and market stability reserve (msr) following an impact assessment. i would like to reiterate that the assessment showed the msr should be adapted to avoid shocks and to ensure complementarity, coherence and effectiveness in achieving the 2030 and 2050 climate ambition. it also revealed that the 12% intake rate would not be enough to ensure that the objectives of the msr in terms of reducing the surplus and ensuring market resilience will still be fulfilled. it is only fair to continue with the doubled intake rate for a few years and ensure that any review and adjustment of the msr intake rate in the future should aim to minimise regulatory complexity and market speculation, while ensuring a maximum degree of market predictability and that the eu ets is fit for purpose in line with the union’s increased climate ambitions for 2030. this is the reason why the epp has tabled this amendment on this matter. while the overall revision of the msr decision is part of the ets revision, this file was due to have a fast-track procedure, that’s why we had a political agreement to proceed in a fast-track procedure with the msr revision. this was a challenge for most of us, and we had very ambitious colleagues, but we mustn’t forget the realities that the economies of our countries face, that our industry face, especially the heavy ones, and more recently the challenge of the energy supply. so the epp position is the 24% intake, and we need to ensure the intake rate of 22% is maintained and not increased, until in the future when a broader revision as part of the ets will come with a solid impact assessment. thank you so much.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the market stability reserve (msr) might seem like a technicality, but it is immensely important for climate. it is not only the first file in the fit for 55 package, but also key to make the eu emissions trading system (ets) fit for purpose. the historical problem with the eu ets has been the high surplus of allowances after the euro and financial crisis. this has resulted in low prices, weak signals for industry to decarbonise. but the creation of the msr and also the swedish proposal in the last reform actually saved the european union from – if we count from my home country, sweden – 50 years of swedish emissions. this is probably the main reason why the ets prices are finally sending the right signal to the industry. and this is why we also now see a new green industrial revolution with new innovations such as green hydrogen popping up across europe. however, after the pandemic, we now see a new large surplus: 30 years of swedish emissions, if we should use my home country again to show you the picture. weakening the msr at this stage would be a huge mistake. today, i hope for a very broad support for a continuously strong msr without limiting further ambition in the ets negotiations. i want to thank my s&d colleague and rapporteur for good work and wish you the very best for the trilogues that we have ahead of us.
for the renew group. president. - the debate is closed. now it's up to the evidence! it's time to vote on the increased ambition of climate action, and then the right-wing conservatives have a kind of spinal reflex to shout "stop! this is an emergency! the first thing right-wing populists want to bring down in a crisis is climate ambitions. the gas crisis has been here for six months. the corona crisis has been here for two years. the climate crisis has been around for a lot longer. we need to be able to deal with other crises in parallel with dealing with the climate crisis. climate change cannot be the first victim of a crisis. but if you, like many of you here on the right-wing conservative fringe, refuse to acknowledge the climate crisis, then perhaps it's also easy to sacrifice it, the first thing you do. i believe in the climate crisis. i want to do something about it. and that's why i'm voting for increased climate ambition.
president, the european energy tax ets was introduced in 2015 to make fossil-based energy artificially more expensive than green energy. this was done at a time when a cubic meter of gas cost about a fifth of the current rate. in 2018, this ets tax was increased. and today we are debating the extension of the increase in this ets tax. we are doing this at a time when the term 'energy poverty' is fast becoming the word of the year. how is it that we still have this proposal on the agenda at all when millions of households are already barely able to afford their energy, not only because of high energy prices but also because of record inflation caused by a failed ecb policy? we must not only reverse the previous increase in the energy tax, but we must abolish the whole tax. the current rates are already astronomical without taxes. any charge on energy is perverse. i hope that everyone who votes for this extension will explain this at home to people who are seeing their energy bill tripled or to people who lost their jobs at a company that has to close its doors because it can no longer pay for the energy.
vice-president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with these amended rules on the hiring of lorries, we are finally getting some relief. rental vehicles are generally newer, safer and more environmentally friendly. this adaptation will make it easier to replace defective lorries. in addition, it helps transport companies to rent vehicles more easily in other eu countries, making it easier to cope with temporary peaks. as part of the mobility package, this legislation also aims to improve enforcement and control. enforcement of the improved rules is the only way to restore fair competition between operators and to improve wages and working conditions for drivers. this is important not only for the well-being of drivers but also for the road safety of us all.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very sorry to say that with the brexit agreement, the european commission and its chief negotiator, michel barnier, have finally revealed their inability to defend the interests of our fishermen. today we are forced to deal with a badly flawed agreement, some of whose vague clauses have simply allowed the british authorities to block many french ships at their maritime border. while we had the legal means, including customs, to defend them, the commission preferred to leave our fishermen to fend for themselves against the royal navy. that's the reality of it. to date, it has been said that it is still possible to obtain the remaining licences. but negotiating the post-2026 real dead end of the agreement is imperative to save our fishermen and for our food sovereignty. we cannot, we cannot and must not rely again entirely and exclusively on the commission. it is up to the member states concerned to organise themselves together to obtain fair, reasonable quotas from the british on a multiannual basis and to refuse any marketing of licences. because yes, the uk is defending its interests and it is right. but our fishermen expected their political leaders to do the same. it didn't. at a time when our food security is in danger, guaranteeing our fishermen the sustainability of their trade, their industries and their activity is a major issue for our strategic autonomy. this is something we all have to take into account.
the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. quotas have been reduced. it's getting harder to trade it. additional requirements for fishermen and unilateral closure of areas were encountered. and what happens after 2026? that too is highly uncertain. of course, we must try to resolve as many bottlenecks as possible in the spirit of good neighbourliness. but if the british continue to pile obstacles on obstacles, we must not shrink from taking countermeasures. in the meantime, it is very frustrating to see that several member states have not even started to pay out the money from the brexit adjustment reserve. i am sure that given the high fuel prices, this is a very uncomfortable situation. i therefore call on the member states concerned and the commission to speed up the disbursement of these funds. we cannot reverse brexit, but we must do everything in our power to keep the situation workable for our fishermen and to compensate for the damage as much as possible and as quickly as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president, we have been meeting all night and reaching difficult compromises, but i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good result, and also my colleagues, the other shadow rapporteurs and in particular commissioner simson for her personal efforts, also in the middle of the night. and this file is really about something. it is strategic legislation, because the enormous task which lies before us in the field of energy transition, but also in the field of reducing dependence on other parts of the world, can only be tackled effectively by european cooperation. we need much more crossborder infrastructure and crossborder energy projects for that. i am glad that in the agreement we have reached we have also made room for all the technology we have at our disposal. because to make the energy system effectively sustainable, we cannot rule out technology. we simply do not have that luxury. the current energy crisis, exacerbated by the terrible war in ukraine, makes it even clearer that the european union is too dependent on energy and therefore also vulnerable to blackmail at a time when we should be trying to keep our heads above water. the package before us today is, in my view, an important step towards greater european cooperation in this area. much more cooperation is needed in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it's stamp policy, there are plenty of examples of that. whereas germany and belgium, for example, are phasing out nuclear energy, the netherlands is rightly - i think - seeking to invest in new power stations. and whatever choice countries make, we need a lot more coordination when it comes to energy generation. i think it is time for us in the european union to coordinate our plans for a sustainable energy system and to put an end to this stamp policy. it's how we make our system sustainable, it's how we keep our energy bills affordable, and it's also how we make ourselves less dependent on other parts of the world.
rapporteur. – mr president, because today’s vote is about gender equality, i would like to share the floor with another woman, kira peter—hansen. we need women supporting women, but this is not enough. we also need this parliament to support women. the gender pay gap stubbornly hovers around 14% in the european union. the covid—19 pandemic halted the slow progress we made, and if we do not intervene, this gap will only be resolved by 2059. i can’t wait this long. i won’t let other women wait this long for receiving what they deserve. we need to renew our economy now. the economy will truly thrive if women take up their rightful place in it with their rightful compensation. we are dealing with fundamental rights here. you see standing here two of the youngest elected meps in 2019. we are the generation that wants to get rid of this injustice. we do this for the generation of our mothers, our generation, and the generations after us. there is no time to waste.
dear president von der leyen, two and a half years ago, you shared with us your vision on the european green deal and called it our ‘man on the moon’ project. you’ve had the full support of s&d on this. however, we can only call the green deal a success when we finish it as a whole. that is what my group has signed it for. lately we have seen some adjustments in the timeline, some legislative files have been postponed, some even twice. yes, we understand that when we are dealing with an unprecedented situation and skyrocketing energy prices and some see this as the perfect excuse to delay. but the climate crisis cannot be paused. the biodiversity crisis cannot be paused. so my question to you, madam president, can you agree that our ‘man on the moon’ project will only succeed when we have a complete european green deal? do you agree that we are in a biodiversity crisis and desperately need the nature restoration law and the revision of the sustainable use of pesticides directive? and can you explain to us why this is postponed twice?
a very short follow-up, because i think the latest moment for us to really still tackle these two very important issues within this legislative period is, let’s say, june 2022. so let me just ask a fairly simple, strict yes or no question. can we expect these two legislations, let’s say, by 22 june 2022, yes or no?
i mean, it’s postponed to june 22 and i mean summer, so, i mean summer is, let’s say ...
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam chair, all eyes are on the russian aggression, and rightly so. but let us not make the mistake we make so often of jumping from crisis to crisis and forgetting about the rest of the world. just last summer, our anger and frustration were targeted at the taliban takeover, which has turned afghan lives into absolute hell. the taliban is showing its real face as a brutal oppressor and a jailer of women and girls. more than 4 million girls are stuck at home, while women are deprived of their right to work, to study and to travel freely. girls face forced marriages. and formal official or government members, journalists, human rights defenders and minorities are attacked, detained and killed. we must prioritise their human rights by making tough demands towards the taliban, by reaching out to protect them. the taliban takeover has also made the lives of all afghan people extremely dire. more than 24 million people depend on humanitarian aid, and the drought, pandemic and the freezing of international aid have deepened this crisis. the russian invasion has even increased food insecurity due to skyrocketing grain prices. we must ensure that sanctions effectively target the taliban, without undermining the basic socioeconomic rights of the poor afghan people, by creating alternative ways to reach them and by stepping up humanitarian aid. because if we do not act now, we risk more people dying from the humanitarian crisis in the country than from the last 20 years of conflict. many people are at immediate risk of persecution in afghanistan, and they need our support to leave the country and be protected elsewhere. i call upon the high representative and the commission to step up the coordination for evacuation and to press member states to enhance their visa and resettlement policies. we must invest in the better protection of refugees in neighbouring countries. but let’s be fair: there is a clear need for safe passage to our embassies and the european union as well. let us make sure that afghan refugees are welcomed and protected, not pushed back and let down. our solidarity with the ukrainian refugees has shown that we are able to do it. every refugee has the same needs and the same rights. the afghans need and deserve our support now.
madam president, high representative, dear colleagues, i appreciated the eu’s approach to the last summit. a difficult meeting where we arrived with many colleagues still under sanction by beijing, let’s not forget it. and in an extremely complex international context, the results have been underwhelming, but not because of the eu’s lack of trying and this adds to its importance. the elephant in the room has obviously been the russian invasion of ukraine, with the eu’s calls for help to end the conflict being answered by deliberate ambiguity, evasive responses and no explicit assurances from china. as politicians, we have to call facts and actions as we see them. and what i see is that china, with its wait and see attitude and its unwillingness to take a clear position, is in fact buying time for putin, de facto helping him to continue with his bloody aggression war on the ground and attempting to change borders through the use of brute force. the u.s. must continue to call out beijing to abandon this ambiguity, stressing that the step between a guilty silence and complicity is a short one, not compatible with china’s proclaimed aspiration to be a global player for peace and stability. if china wants to be on the right side of history, it has to take a decision now and it must be a clear one.
madam president, high representative, the recent summit with china has taken place at a special, critical moment for the international order because of putin's aggression against ukraine. china, a major global power and a permanent member of the security council, should actively contribute to the end of aggression and the restoration of peace. china has the capacity to talk to putin and should influence a change of course. the russian aggression against ukraine is a very serious violation of international law, which affects everyone, harms everyone. the unlimited cooperation which china agreed with russia two months ago cannot in any case involve supplying moscow with arms or helping it to evade sanctions. i am glad that the chinese president was clearly given that message at the summit. this is no time for indifference or neutrality on the part of the international community, and certainly not for a power like china, which must be aware of the negative impact that this unjust war has on international stability and on the economy and prosperity of all. china's biggest trading partners are europe and the united states. we're also the biggest investors. we must be alert to the behavior of the chinese authorities at this critical hour. the un general assembly resolution of 1 march last clearly expressed the rejection of the war unleashed by putin by the vast majority of the international community. only four countries supported russia. china must contribute to peace. he can't stay out of it. it must behave as a great power contributing to the restoration of legality and not as a passive actor and certainly not as an accomplice of an aggressor.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. three points to note: it was right to have the eu-china summit and to show a clear edge there too, as one of them described very clearly. that's right, you're right. so all diplomacy and fine words, that won't help. the question of human rights, the question of taiwan, the question of the trade embargo against lithuania are obvious. that was a real sharp edge. secondly, the chinese response was not adequate. but we also cannot accept that we have a world where china is sleeping with russia, and that's it. so thirdly, we need to develop a strategy for how we go about this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we must also look to stabilise the structures wherever possible through human rights dialogue, economic dialogue and the wto. because ultimately it is about enforcing the law and not yielding to force.
madam president, the criminal invasion of ukraine by russia will probably accelerate the geopolitical alignment between china and russia which has been going on for a while. obviously, china is not celebrating the invasion, but neither has it openly condemned it. china has sided with russia’s false arguments, has refused to join the sanctions, and we suspect they might help putin dodge them. there’s a strategic alliance between big authoritarian regimes – as imbalanced as it may be – because russia needs china much more than china needs russia. at the end of the day, it’s an alliance to better counter our strong relations with our like-minded partners. how should we europeans react to this? president xi calls for an independent eu approach toward china. i rather think we need to have an approach which, taking into account our significant trade and economic ties, also preserves our strategic interests and values and, together with our partners, ensures human rights and international law. last week’s summit was an excellent opportunity to display such an approach, but as usual when it comes to china, i am not sure that we fully took advantage of that opportunity.
president, high representative, last week's eu-china summit reminded me of the previous summit in 2020. at that time, merkel and macron thought they could conclude an investment agreement in a short time. the summit was a symbol of the eu's ambivalent attitude towards china: nice words about human rights, but in the end, the wallet is more important. the tone of last week was markedly different, but i still saw ambivalence again. yes, you spoke about ukraine, and rightly so. but you also decided to set up a working party to strengthen trade relations and to recognise each other's protected geographical indications. i do not understand this, because there is no prospect of restoring democracy in hong kong, restoring freedom of religion for christians in china, restoring freedom for the million uyghurs in concentration camps, while china still has sanctions against members of the european parliament. if china continues to trample on human rights like this, there can be no talk of enhanced economic relations. that should be clear.
madam president, i promise you i’ll stay on time. yesterday, the eu launched a fifth package of sanctions against putin and his allies. we strongly welcome this and the establishment of the eu and ukraine joint investigation team. we have to collect evidence and investigate war crimes and crimes against humanity in ukraine, as we have witnessed in bucha and other places. but the question is: is this enough? and the short answer is no. we cannot continue doing business because that is what we’re doing by importing russian gas, knowing about the atrocities that have happened in ukraine. we, as the european parliament, need to send a clear signal and support a total ban on fossil fuels from russia and hit putin where it hurts. we need this total ban on oil and gas imports to be effective immediately. the sooner the better. as president michel said, we need this probably sooner rather than later. well, are we going to wait until putin decides to cut us off? he already asks us to pay in roubles and we see that he is dividing us. some member states have cancelled all imports and others are really considering paying in roubles. we need to stop this. better to be one step ahead than in panic mode. and the good thing is that we have a plan to get off fossil fuels. we have repowereu and our european green deal. we can accelerate the process by delivering on the fit for 55 package and accelerating energy efficiency and deployment of renewables. we in the s&d group are ready for this. who would have thought that the european green deal would become an act of resistance against putin’s hostilities?
madam president, high representative, commissioner, dear colleagues, after his failed attempt to turn ukraine away from europe, putin finds himself haunted by a question: what must russia do with ukraine? and his answer? i quote: ‘we do not need a nazi, banderite ukraine which is an enemy of russia and a tool of the west used to destroy russia’. these lines are taken from an article by ria novosti, an official mouthpiece of the russian state, in response to the western sanctions to the massacre of civilians in bucha. does anyone in this chamber who is in their right mind, question the existence of russian fascism and chauvinism? the russian regime is an enemy of the west – all of us. dear colleagues, western support for ukraine must be based on the binary principle that either we are with ukraine or we are against freedom, democracy and all the values that we cherish in the european union. we must not even think about our discomfort or the disruption of our daily lives. we must do everything that is necessary to support the existential fight of ukraine. i regret that the fifth eu sanctions package does not cover all fossil fuels. it really is a shame on us. we are not convincing ukrainians that the european union is doing all it can and must. finally, high representative, i call on the european union to appoint a special representative for ukraine in order to properly coordinate the delivery of all kinds of aid and the eventual reconstruction process. let us get ready for this. we have to realise that the conference on the future of europe, without the people of ukraine, will never fulfil its main purpose. let’s invite ukrainians.
madam president, mr high representative, madam president of the commission, the world is becoming increasingly aware of putin's atrocities in ukraine. my first words are to the victims of bucha and their families and loved ones. as president zelensky said yesterday before the congress of deputies in spain, the massacres are too reminiscent of the massacre suffered by the spaniards in guernica in 1937: they are war crimes that must be thoroughly investigated, and the international criminal court must play its part. the crimes of putin, who torpedoes diplomatic negotiations, unfortunately present us with a prospect of a prolongation of the conflict, and in the face of this prospect europe must remain united - that is the most important thing - by supporting the ukrainians on all fronts, and also by sanctions - by better implementing them, because sanctions have a lack of implementation - and the greens are also supporting him with a total embargo of all fossil fuels from russia, including gas, and also uranium. but in the short term we must also look at cushioning the costs of war on our citizens so that we can be better prepared, and i want to welcome the decisions taken in the council on energy, which have allowed the price of gas to be limited, the extraordinary profits of the electricity companies to be taxed... that is important: we cannot make the usual people pay for these costs. and in the long term, as europeans, we have to reflect on what all these years of external dependence on fossil fuels have meant, which today are not only a problem for climate change, they are a threat to peace and security; we know this today: what is the point, therefore, in this context, of continuing, for example, to keep gas in the taxonomy? we must devote the maximum effort to the urgent deployment of renewables, put all our resources there; we will probably need a new european fund to be able to make that transition much faster. we have no time, because the ipcc report shows that we are running out of time to combat climate change.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, what putin is doing here is unacceptable in any form and condemnable in any form. as a representative of a party which many years ago also had a so-called memorandum of understanding with the united russia party, which served cultural exchange and economic revival, i can only say today: that friendship is over. it is unacceptable what is happening here on putin's part. the question is, how do i respond to it? i am not going to go into detail about the situation in the middle east. i think that among those who will not be affected by this sanctions policy, is russian president putin, who will not care about the energy price. i also think that commission president von der leyen will not be affected if she flies by private jet from vienna to bratislava or something like that. i don't think the president of the united states is going to be affected by that if he's going to be traveling in the president of the united states' vehicle, the beast, or air force one. but those who are really affected, and to a large extent, are the broad masses of people outside who are no longer pushing the price of energy, who are no longer pushing a price of more than 2 euros per litre of fuel, who are no longer pushing the high gas prices and so on and so forth. so it's the wrong way, because it's a shot in the knee. the question is what should you do instead? the answer to this question is, in my view, simple: all that de-escalates. it doesn't help if leyen flies to kiev, or the austrian chancellor who said to fly to kiev for a pr campaign. no, it would make sense if we did all the things that bring peace back. it would be a good idea if, for example, in austria, which is committed to neutrality, a tripolar peace conference were to begin - but without the americans, who have their own interests - and the ukrainians, europeans and russians here doing everything to put together a package that would secure peace and also serve the people outside.
president, high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to address my words to mrs von der leyen and mr michel, but it is clear time and again that they prefer not to listen to the elected representatives of the people. - i'll see you. the war in ukraine is threatening to escalate into a continental crisis. we've all seen the latest horrific footage. the whole of history shows that the russian military behaves in a barbaric way against the civilian population. murder, rape, and looting. every war again. we must continue to support ukraine. for europe, the lesson is 'we can't count on russia' but the harsh reality is that over the last decade we have only become more dependent on russian gas. the climate policy of this parliament - your policy - has filled putin's coffers to wage this war. we must reduce that dependence as quickly as possible. we cannot do that by relying on even more unreliable solar and wind energy, the very energy sources that have made us dependent on russia, because only gas can back up if there is no sun and no wind. instead, we must now fully commit to clean nuclear energy. france has already proved that this is the solution. and we need to invest heavily in innovation. then the short term. already, inflation is in the double digits. without affordable and reliable energy, we are facing a crisis of unprecedented proportions, and we must prevent it. the green deal, including the 'farmer to plate' strategy, must be scrapped. food security and affordable and reliable energy must now be top priorities. we can and we must use our own gas and fully exploit existing fossil and nuclear power stations. it's the only way to avert a catastrophe. and as far as ukraine is concerned, this war must end. that requires great political skill and not economic suicide. in the end, that is all that has served ukraine and europe. let us continue to work towards this goal with one voice.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, (inaudible) the united solidarity with refugees from ukraine is impressive. it reassures us that the european values and the right to protection do have a meaning in the european union, but these principles leave no room for double standards. people fleeing a war, persecution or inhuman treatment all fall under the same protection regime. the situation people are fleeing from determines their right to protection, not the country that they left. yet, despite the hospitality towards refugees from ukraine, the right to enter an asylum procedure is being violated at many european borders. at the polish borders, we see that in one place, thousands of people are welcomed, while only a few kilometres away, refugees are being pushed back into belarus, deprived of their rights, goods and dignity. in greece, the push-backs have become a daily and systematic practice. if a refugee manages to apply for asylum, the greek authorities refer them back to turkey, even when they know that they are not allowed to re-enter turkey. greece is an important country of entrance for refugees from syria, afghanistan and other dangerous countries. but the policies of greece simply mean that they all end up in a lawless situation. their lives and health are at risk, despite all the safeguards that we have in our legislation. the commission knows exactly what’s going on; many investigations conclude the same. so how is it possible that the commission accepts such blatant breaches of the right to life and protection and, even if a state allows for push-backs in the legislation, the commission stays silent? so, when will you finally act to ensure protection for all refugees in the european union? bring them to court like you did with hungary. make border and asylum fronts conditional. speak up and demand respect for human rights, and use the current wave of solidarity to push for a common responsibility of all member states for our asylum seekers.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you honourable members, for your intervention. it is good to hear that we agree that the schengen area is a key achievement of the eu that deserves to be preserved and that the revision of the schengen evaluation and monitoring mechanism is an essential element to strengthen the governance of the schengen area. the french presidency committed to wait for your opinion before adoption. tomorrow you will vote on the ep’s report and we will move forward and take the next steps. the commission will continue to be constructive in discussions in the council, to ensure that the new regulation is adopted and implemented as quickly as possible.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 7 april 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the current context of the war in ukraine shows us once again that a common response against imminent threats is urgently needed to defend and protect europe's borders. the commission will continue to support the efforts of the european parliament and the council to ensure that the union's external borders are not encroached upon by the actions of the member states. at the same time, member states must step up their efforts to guarantee the security of europe by implementing the necessary measures to protect the external borders. the eu's response capacity needs to be improved to ensure the safety of european citizens regardless of the type of threat. in this context, the extension of the schengen area to countries such as romania, bulgaria and croatia represents an opportunity for europe to strengthen the security of the european area, improve the response to the refugee crisis and provide the necessary support to ukraine in its reconstruction efforts and the protection of the civilian population. these arguments were also presented in the letters sent to decision-makers in all member states as part of the campaign that we initiated #romaniameritinschengen. with the schengen reform, romania's demonstrated capacity to ensure the protection of the union's external borders and the technical reassessment underway, the accession of the three states, especially romania, can be achieved immediately.
the next item is an announcement: the greens/efa group have sent the president a decision on a change of appointments to a committee. this decision shall be published in the minutes of today's meeting and shall enter into force on the day of its notification.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in north korea, including the persecution of religious minorities (2022/2620 (rsp)) *. i would remind you that, with the exception of the first two rows, which are reserved for the group chairmen, there is free choice of seats. after you have inserted your voting card into the voting machine, you can then apply for spontaneous word messages and blue cards via your voting machine. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be dealt with from the central podium, with the exception of spontaneous speeches, blue cards and comments on the application of the rules of procedure. the president of the commission
author. – mr president, the latest publication of open doors on north korea is a highly worrisome one. the organisation reports that in north korea, an underground church has been discovered and all of its members killed. this is another sad example of how the authorities in the dprk treat believers in their country. north korea imposes a full restriction of freedom of expression and access to information. any violation of this rule can lead to a sentence in a prison camp or even a death penalty. people are exercising their human rights on the freedom of religion and belief in secrecy and insecurity. i strongly condemn this form of state repression that has been exercised systematically for decades. the regime continues to put the dictator as the centre of universe but history teaches us that this is never lasting forever.
- a writer. president, commissioner, the people of north korea have suffered for decades under a brutal dictatorship. they're supposed to worship the kims as gods. they don't? if they confide in the god of the bible, as christians do, they disappear behind bars, or worse, they are killed, as happened recently with dozens of christians who had met in the deepest secrecy. today, in our resolution, we in the european parliament are demonstrating: brothers and sisters in north korea, we have not forgotten you, even though your country blocks any serious diplomacy on human rights. we call on north korea to respect the freedom of religion enshrined in its constitution. we say to the council: the commission shall adopt the measures necessary to implement this decision. we call on china and other neighboring countries: please do not send anyone back to north korea until the situation there improves. that's because it's life-threatening. people who are persecuted for their faith should be able to count on us. including north korea.
mr. president, do you have to charge your phone again around lunch? is there a crack in your screen, or can't you download apps because your device won't allow updates after a few years? buying a new phone is pretty much your only option. phones are made to be difficult to repair. if possible, buying a new one is often cheaper than having it repaired. this is beyond words, of course. the production of telephones has a huge impact on people and the environment. we rush people to keep buying new phones, and we only create more electronic waste. we need to fix the craziness of our throwaway society. what the commission proposed last week is a step in the right direction. we're going to make sure that products are designed to last and to be easy to repair. but a strong right to redress is the next step. software obsolescence of phones that otherwise perform well should simply be prohibited. only then can we say we're digitizing sustainably.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, let me start by expressing my sincere gratitude to this house for the hard work that went into the highly technical and very important report we are discussing this evening and which you will vote on tomorrow. i would like to thank the envi committee and especially the rapporteur, mr hojsík and all shadow rapporteurs for an extremely thorough and timely report. we need to remember that this legislative revision will be instrumental in helping us attain the objectives of the european green deal. it is fully in line with the zero pollution action plan, the chemical strategy for sustainability and the circular economy action plan. it also implements our international obligations under the stockholm convention and, of course, it ensures the environmentally sound management of waste which contains persistent organic pollutants toxic to the environment and to human health. we very much appreciate your efforts to find the best approach to minimise emissions of persistent organic pollutants from waste and to promote the uptake of safe secondary materials. looking at the amendments you propose, i see that our objectives are clearly aligned. i also note that you would like to go further and faster on the limit values to be set in waste for most of the substances in scope. i also take note of your request to the commission to equate the concept of the persistent organic pollutants waste with that of hazardous waste in the review of eu waste legislation, and of your proposal to list an additional family of these substances constituted by perfluorohexane sulfonic acid and its components. setting these limits is a delicate exercise. we need to consider both our obligation and our very legitimate desire to reduce the presence of these substances to a minimum, but also technical feasibility and proportionality. the interplay with green deal objectives such as climate neutrality and the ambition for a more circular economy are also very important and need to be taken into account. all these points will require further discussion in the coming weeks and months. some of them will depend on the decision to be taken in the forthcoming conference of the parties to the stockholm convention about the listing. thanks to the swift and efficient work on this complex file in the envi committee, it has been possible to build broad support for your mandate, little more than five months after the commission adopted its proposal. this is truly remarkable, bringing us to where we are today with trilogues scheduled to commence in less than two weeks. the legislative proposal to amend the waste annexes of the persistent organic pollutants regulation was one of the first deliverables the commission proposed under the circular economy action plan. it may also be the first to be adopted, with a political agreement in sight before the end of june. and i sincerely hope we can achieve that. and i can assure you that we can count on your sustained support and you can count on the commission’s constructive support during the negotiations.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, at the outset i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr hojsík, for his cooperation and for bringing us all together. and we have, i hope, a balanced report tomorrow that will get the approval of this house, as persistent organic pollutants, or pops, are carbon-based compounds that remain in the environment for a long time, toxic organic compounds, and because of their very slow breakdown properties, they’re known as ‘forever chemicals’. they can be transported long distance, cross-border, by air, by water, ending up in the food chain and ultimately accumulating in human tissue. they can be passed from one generation to the next, even if they are no longer required or used, they still persist in our environment. and one of the risks of pops is that whilst they are no longer required, they can still be present in waste streams such as construction waste, packaging and plastics, electronic waste, among others. no country or union can manage these elements unless we have cooperation internationally, so it’s essential for the aarhus protocol, the stockholm convention, to find the restrictions necessary for such pollutants. these revisions that we have today will seek to minimise, eliminate where possible, the releases of these pops – well, i think they should be consistently called persistent organic pollutants – and to regulate the waste containing or contaminated by such chemicals. and i believe that this ambitious proposal will contribute to better management of these toxic wastes and to their removal or to their destruction. the objective of my work and that of my colleagues i know has always been to protect human health and the environment from these polluting substances. and i believe that we are going a long way to doing that here. so this report attempts to strike a balance with our green deal ambitions relating to toxic-free material cycles, recycling and circularity and reducing greenhouse emissions. so i’d encourage us all to support this tomorrow and to give us the mandate to move forward to the trilogues.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. these are chemical molecules found in dioxins, pesticides, insecticides and flame retardants. they are also said to be very persistent in the environment. they are contaminating us today and they are contaminating future generations and they are also contaminating far, far away from where they were emitted. deciding on lower concentration limits, as we have done in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, therefore directly contributes to better protecting citizens, but also to a cleaner environment for future generations. some people have mentioned in discussions that lower limits on these concentrations on recycled materials would lead to more incineration and therefore more pollution. but this is not inevitable, because more and more techniques that do not require combustion are now available and allow the destruction of these substances that are still present today, without emitting dioxins. so it is these sectors that we must support by imposing more stringent limits rather than encouraging the incorporation of these toxic substances into recycling. our committee is also calling for the threshold for hazardous waste to be aligned with the limits set out in annex 4 to better manage this highly toxic waste when we are revising the regulation on the export of waste, because we also have to be vigilant about what we do outside the union. i would remind you that too low limits for persistent organic pollutants in waste are contrary to the objective of the stockholm convention, and so it is now a matter of being consistent. i therefore urge you to support this text which also calls on the commission to raise its ambitions during the trilogue, in order to contribute to the achievement of a non-toxic environment without delay.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eu has two major objectives in the european green deal: a resource-efficient circular economy and a pollution-free economy. both are central objectives for our society. however, they do not fit together in the case of persistent organic pollutants, or pops, because pops are among the most dangerous and harmful chemicals in the world, both to our health and to the environment. the principle here is clear: first remove dangerous chemicals from products and then recycle or not recycle at all. therefore, the maximum levels for pop waste must be as strict as possible. they must not be recycled back into the cycle. the more we manage these toxins, the more innovation we will see in products and recycling to develop products that are pop-free. the aim must be to remove pops completely from our everyday products. our proposal is the right way to protect our children and to ensure a clean environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances. however, we must consider whether this is possible from the point of view of sorting. the amendments tabled by mr vondra deserve our full support. i am glad that pfas are also included in the annex, but i think that more action is needed in this area. this is because discharges into surface water cannot be prevented. i would like to draw particular attention to the scheldt and the western scheldt. the permits in flanders have been tightened up, but who can guarantee that everything is in order there now? i would therefore ask the commission to work towards a total ban on pfas, as advocated by several countries, and to ensure that monitoring and enforcement in the member states is properly carried out. we must put the time of toxic discharges behind us once and for all.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank my colleague, simone schmiedtbauer, for this report, which was a balancing act, but she has risen to the challenge, encouraging organic production, but taking a pragmatic approach. and that is what is needed today, pragmatism. when setting targets for developing organic production, it is important to ensure that there is a market in front of you. and we can see in a number of member states, including my own in france, that there is a real problem with organic production because the cost is higher. this is particularly the case in the milk sector, where producers have great difficulty in selling their production and finding outlets. it is our responsibility to be attentive to that point because we are taking farmers to huge investments. so we have to make sure that behind it, there can be profitability and demand. the report proposes very good solutions by ensuring the wider development of green public procurement. that's good. i would also like to welcome the fact that the report does not set organic farming against more conventional farming, which is also making a lot of effort to renew itself. i think that's something to be welcomed. we already have the most demanding agriculture in europe. and finally, i would like to emphasize the need to work on local supply chains, because that, too, is a path to explore, both for food and for the environment.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the extraordinary development of organic farming at european level over the last decade is proof that our farmers, if properly guided and encouraged, are essential allies in the provision of environmental services to the whole community and in achieving the objectives of the green deal. this model should therefore be strengthened by means of a targeted action plan and by sharing and implementing at european level the best practices developed by the best performing member states. we cannot therefore allow the commission's ambitious targets to undermine the very high quality of european production by opening the door to the import of organic products which do not meet our environmental, social and economic sustainability standards. we therefore call for a rigorous impact assessment so that the 25% target for organic farming becomes an opportunity for our producers and consumers, with the aim of improving the quality of our products and not devaluing them.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i’d like to welcome this action plan on organics and the recognition that any expansion has to be market-led. organics by its nature has a higher cost base and it needs a premium price in order to fund the costs involved. if it’s saturated, it undermines that market for new producers but also for existing producers who have invested heavily in the industry. we also need to simplify procedures to make it more accessible for new entrants. there’s a need for research and development, particularly into plant varieties that are more suitable to organics, but particularly into farm practices which are fundamentally different from traditional agricultural practices. ireland has shown its commitment to organics going forward. it had traditionally a very low level, and it has increased its investment fivefold and it has a target of 7.5% organics by 2027. organics has a key part to play alongside conventional agriculture. it’s vital that we get the strategy correct.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for combining the needs of the organic sector with those of farmers in a practical way. it has been said that our aim is to support organic production, to get our farmers to contribute to the green deal, but let us not forget that we must ensure that prices are set correctly, so that organic products can be known, appreciated and consumed. in this connection, i would like to stress, as was also mentioned in the report, the importance of wholesale markets, because they are large service platforms, also mentioned in the farm to fork strategy, which are important for price formation not only as guarantees of transparency but also as facilitators of a fairer agri-food system for farmers and consumers. finally, i too stress the need to protect our producers and consumers of organic products, especially from imports from outside europe, and we must guarantee a real principle of equivalence.
madam president, i am convinced that we need this action plan and i thank the rapporteur for her very good report. it's not just about pesticides, fertilizers, the impact of these substances on biodiversity, but of course it's also about the resilience of the whole system, because the current system is really not resilient and it doesn't take into account our food self-sufficiency. this is an objective that we should see as a first and foremost priority, even in the light of the war in ukraine. we need to build chains that are sustainable, of course, on the most appropriate, market-based basis, and also chains that are as short as possible, i.e. according to our 'from farmer to consumer' strategy. and the price is important because it will be a major determinant of how successful this strategy is. we should help farmers to be able to get to the market at sustainable and relatively decent prices.
i have to say, madam president, the 25% target for green farming is important. and it's more important now than ever, because the invasion of ukraine has shown us how dependent conventional agriculture is on energy to produce mineral nitrogen, but also how dependent many are on imported feed. and then we can say clearly: eco is not a luxury, but more urgent than ever, also in terms of a different agricultural model. in the case of leguminous crops, as in the case of organic farms, nitrogen is produced by the crop itself, and this is an important objective. i can and must emphasise that the objectives of the biodiversity strategy and the objectives of climate protection can only be achieved through ecological farming. i would point out, however, as many others have done, that 25% does not have to be achieved on the land alone. we also need 25 percent in the canteens, in the schools, in the kindergartens. it must not be a luxury, but it must be taken for granted that we offer organic products. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that's a pressing demand the sector has for you.
the report by mrs simone schmiedtbauer has been an excellent and very balanced report. what particularly appeals to me in this report is the question-orientation. i am firmly convinced that top-down rates and targets work against the grain and lead to market distortions and price reductions which do no one any good, and certainly not the organic farmer. we are therefore right not to accept the 25% rate proposed by the commission. we must also remember that conventional agriculture can also be very sustainable if we provide good instruments, a good regulatory framework and good new varieties and provide enough plant protection products for farmers to intervene. a top-down approach to organic farming does not work. our approach must be question-based.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. during this session, we are debating a report on the persecution of religious minorities around the world. it is a very broad and important subject, and it is extremely difficult to summarise it in a single document. my goal in writing the original text was to create the most complete picture possible of the situation on different continents, a map of the persecution or problems faced by people of different faiths or by non-believers. this has, of course, required the adoption of a methodology and a gradation of the problems through the lens of the religions most frequently attacked, as well as the number of followers and the countries where such events are most frequent. after a very thorough analysis of the many studies and documents available, i believe that this gradation has been achieved. it turns out, not surprisingly to anyone, that the most persecuted religious group is christians. islam is next, followed by judaism. the former have been victims of violence in 145 countries. by comparison, according to available sources, non-believers were repressed in 1800. i am giving this information for the sake of order, because unfortunately in the final version of the report it was deleted. most groups, i don't know if it's because of political correctness or fear that someone might be left out, have decided not to report on the persecution of religious minorities, or any minorities, or any countries where this persecution is taking place. unfortunately, this has become the standard for so many documents in these annual reports on human rights in the world, where we haven't named any country for years. i think that undermines the position of parliament very much. nevertheless, the report which we have managed to negotiate together still contains many important points which should be emphasized. it lists in detail, for example, the different forms of persecution, the plight of women in many countries, and the need for a strong response from national authorities and the international community to any violence or discrimination based on religion. it addresses the destruction of cultural heritage and places of worship in armed conflicts, and even refers to the 1948 united nations convention on genocide. the report also makes very specific proposals to the eu institutions on how they should respond to violations of the rights of religious minorities, including through broad engagement with governments, churches, religious groups, ngos and human rights defenders. the guidelines on freedom of religion and belief are also an important instrument, which should be periodically reviewed and updated in cooperation with all the parties i have just mentioned. religious persecution should also become an important part of the european union's national strategies, and our delegations in different parts of the world should pay particular attention to these issues. in conclusion, i believe that my report fulfils the role it should play in drawing the attention of the eu institutions and the public to the problem of restrictions on and attacks on religious groups and non-believers in many parts of the world. i regret that we have not been able to obtain much more precise and specific records indicating individual countries and authorities, although in many places the report is very easy to read in the context of reference to very specific situations. i also know that the members have signed motions for separate votes on a number of paragraphs and have tabled two amendments to the text dealing with the situation of christians in the world. as rapporteur, i believe these proposals are sound and i would encourage my colleagues to support them. finally, i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from other political groups, the advisers and the members of the secretariat of the subcommittee on human rights for their cooperation.
i have worked very hard on this report, mr president, because i think that there is too little political attention in this parliament to people who are persecuted on the grounds of their religion. unfortunately, the names of individuals and organisations who have been persecuted on account of their faith have been removed from the report. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to refer to another important report recently prepared by the parliament's intergroup on freedom of religion and tolerance between religions, which i co-chair with carlo fidanza. this report on freedom of religion or belief in the period 2017-2021 does contain concrete examples. i would therefore advise you to consult this report. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. finally, i hope that the commission will appoint the new religious freedom envoy soon, as we have waited far too long for this.
the report on religious minorities and the persecution they face is a good thing. however, i share the concern expressed by peter van dalen that christians are not mentioned or hardly mentioned in the report and that much information has been redacted. i think this is a very bad thing. but what i find particularly untenable and intolerable is that believers are criticised in the report for their position on abortion. this is not only outside the scope of the report, but also outside the competence of the european union. all life is worthy of protection, especially unborn life. rather than criticizing believers, we should commend them for their concern for the preservation of life.
madam president, today we as a parliament send a strong signal. we need a legislative proposal to protect workers when ai is deployed at work. and it’s about time we had legislation to protect workers from becoming robots. for too long, when talking about ai and the future of work, we worried about humans going to be replaced by technology. but the reality is that technology hasn’t replaced people; it is used to push people to work at a machine-like pace. employers are tracking employees’ every move – how many emails you send, how much time you spend at your keyboard, and even your emotions – to evaluate your performance. amazon workers delivering packages have several tracking devices in their vans to not only track if they are reaching their targets, but also whether they look happy or tired while on the road. zara shop assistants’ locations are continuously monitored and they are given automated orders in their earpieces and call centre workers are evaluated with emotion—recognition technologies based on how chirpy they sound while talking with customers. ai-driven surveillance at work is already a reality, and this endangers health and safety, mental health and fundamental rights. we must not treat ai like a magical tool for efficiency and productivity. rather, we need clear rules to protect workers when there are issues at work. a new legislative proposal can help ai make our work easier and more pleasant, and this is what makes people productive at work. we need laws to empower workers and make sure technology is used to promote workers’ rights instead of allowing our bosses to continuously stalk, evaluate and exploit us. and this is why parliament sends a strong signal with broad support. we need a legislative proposal to protect workers’ rights when ai is deployed at work.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 3.19 p.m.)
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. do you have any comments? it's not a problem. the minutes are approved.
the next item is the commission's question time (rule 137). i would like to begin by welcoming commissioner kadri simson to this question time. this question-and-answer session is entitled 'energy self-sufficiency in europe: the strategic importance of renewable energy sources, energy interconnection and energy efficiency'. i'm gonna have to read you some instructions. so the point is that we are currently testing some of the recommendations of the plenary focus group on reform, and putting question time back on the agenda is one of them. this question period will last approximately 90 minutes. questions are not allocated in advance to individual members. the commissioner's reply will be given two minutes, the additional question by the representative will be given half a minute and then the additional reply by the commissioner will be given two minutes. i would point out that any additional question should be linked to the actual question and should not constitute a new question. so if you want to ask a question, please register your request now by using the catch-the-eye function of your voting machine after the ballot card has been entered into the machine. instructions for this are available in the courtroom. i would also like to point out that you are free to choose your seat in the chamber, except for the first two rows, which are reserved for group leaders. so the speeches in question time are now being made from the floor. i urge all speakers to stick to the speaking time allotted to each of you. members may need a moment to register their request to put a question on the voting machine. i'm going to ask you to register your request now, and then we'll start with the first question.
member of the commission. – madam president and honourable members of the parliament, thank you for allowing me to be part of your testing of new working methods. indeed, we do have in place solidarity measures between member states, and yesterday we had in brussels an extraordinary energy ministers council format where all the colleagues expressed their strong solidarity towards poland and bulgaria whose gas supplies were cut off. by doing so, gazprom clearly showed that they are not a reliable supplier and they unilaterally broke the contract, despite the fact that companies from two countries did their payments according to their existing contracts, so they did their payments in euros. last week already our president ursula von der leyen, who met with the bulgarian prime minister, announced that we will set up this purchase platform to support bulgaria, which has to find alternative supplies, and neighbours have already put in place the alternative routes so that the cuts from the russian side can be replaced by lng shipments in the short term. what are our countermeasures to the company who breached the contract? well, these are contracts between private companies and we have to take care that they can protect their rights based on legal assessment. our legal assessment says that bulgarian and polish companies complied to the contract. so, the penalties have to be coming from gazprom side.
member of the commission. – well as you know, we have been preparing for this situation that there will be a full or partial disruption from gazprom’s side since the beginning of this year. so now this is a clear testimony that we cannot regard gazprom as a reliable supplier, and we don’t know which country will be the next one. that means that from our side, the commission point of view, we have to ensure that our member states are prepared, that they do have contingency plans in place and that we can find alternative suppliers. but of course, there will also be civil disputes between companies and there will be additional steps from our side towards russia. so i came here directly from the commission where we were discussing our forthcoming steps, and you can expect that later today this will be announced.
madam president, my question is very specific. we are talking about strategic autonomy, which starts with energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. strategic autonomy by increasing energy imports is not strategic autonomy in energy. we have our own findings, particularly in the eastern mediterranean. why don't we move on? and the question is this: the reason for this is that the european union, or certain officials, do not dare to confront the erdoğan regime. it's as simple as that. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not left behind.
member of the commission. – thank you for your question. since the war began this february, it has become even more imminent that we have to scale up our clean transition. we cannot replace all russian fossil fuels, natural gas, oil products with alternative suppliers’ products. we have to prioritise energy savings and renewables because in the long run, they will serve us in the way that we will not be dependent on imports in the way we are right now. 90% of our gas consumption is covered by imported natural gas. 97% of oil products are coming from abroad. and this is a situation that cannot continue. now, in the short run, according to our repowereu plan, we announced that we can replace russian natural gas, in part, with alternative supplies. to be more concrete, we have reached out to all the major suppliers, we have mapped the available volumes, and one third, by the end of this year, we can replace with alternative supplies. but one third has to be replaced by renewables, so we have to frontload investments, we have to scale up the production of clean gases. and that means that, if we achieve our goals, our imports of fossil fuels will decrease, not increase.
lng, by the way, is part of the transition period towards 2050. so lng can be part of the energy mix tomorrow. but my question is this: talking about energy autonomy, would the commission consider to extend the sanctions, madam commissioner? would the commission consider to extend the sanctions by including companies controlled by the kremlin, such as rosatom, which built up nuclear stations throughout countries in europe and outside as well?
member of the commission. – i’m sorry i didn’t answer completely your first question that you were asking, have we mapped also the available production sites inside europe? and as you know, since last august, the european commission became an observer member of eastmed. so we are really participating in these projects. now, about the next sanctions, as our president von der leyen said nothing is off the table. so we are assessing all the necessary steps, and later today, you will hear the announcement of the sixth package of sanctions. already since the first package of sanctions, we have targeted russia’s energy sector. we have made clear that they do not have access to the new technological equipment, so they cannot upgrade their energy sector. with regard to rosatom and their activity in europe, there are five member states who do have nuclear power plants that are based on russian technology, and we are helping them to diversify their nuclear fuel and to accelerate the process so that alternatives will be ready as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – indeed, i do agree with you that there are ways how we can replace, relatively fast, partially our fossil fuel consumption with renewables. and in this regard, we already mentioned in our repowereu communication that you can expect in the middle of may, actually in two weeks, a detailed plan how we can replace by the end of this year two-thirds of russian gas and as we were tasked and100% of russian gas by the end of the decade. we will do this and the core of this plan will be renewables and energy efficiency. so we foresee a faster uptake of renewable energy projects. and of course, one work stream is that we have to address the bottlenecks, if possible, but you can expect from our side also that there will be a solar energy strategy, including a european solar rooftops initiative. and we are looking into, together with the industry – just a couple of weeks ago i had a chance to participate at the solar summit – what we can do to bring back manufacturing to europe because we do not want to replace one dependency with another. so we have to bring back manufacturing also to europe and this is possible.
member of the commission. – as you know, we made our proposal to update the renewable targets for 2030 a year ago, and now we are in the phase where co-legislators are negotiating their positions. and of course, we are in the situation where everybody understands the necessity to increase the ambitions for energy efficiency and on renewables and from our side, the commission is also working to partially update our impact assessments. so the target is to support the co-legislators during your negotiations and in our repowereu communication, we also announced that right now we are in this situation, but first we have to frontload the investments that governments plan to have during this decade and make these investments as soon as possible. if we achieve everything that the commission proposed in our energy efficiency and renewables directive, then actually by the end of 2030, we will achieve the volume savings and renewable volumes that help us easily replace and get rid of russian imports. but we do not have so much time. so, broadly it is agreed among member states that that we need to accelerate the green transition, and energy savings are also at the core of our strategy because upgraded energy efficiency programmes actually help governments to avoid more severe curtailment needs if there will be a full disruption due to the russian site decision.
thank you, commissioner, for being here in the plenary. my first question concerns the level of the crisis that our citizens are facing. they are facing energy prices that are soaring and they are struggling to find a way to address them. in this regard, i think that it is now time for a european solution in order to address the price crisis. in this regard, i would like to ask you the following: first of all, is the commission is ready to proceed with an amendment of the target model in order to proceed with decoupling of natural gas prices with electricity? secondly, is the commission ready to draw lessons from the pandemic in order to proceed with specific financial instruments to address the crisis? third, is the commission ready to proceed with an intervention in the crisis in the amsterdam market?
member of the commission. – thank you. in these extraordinary times, we have to be ready to assess the immediate needs when they are there. in this regard, already last autumn we tasked our agency, acer, to conduct a study on what we can do with the current electricity market design. just last friday, i had a chance to see their analysis, which is good reading and i suggest everyone looks it up on acer’s website. the commission will now carefully analyse the final acer report and also other contributions on the functioning of the electricity market, and we will propose a way forward. we know that, at times of crisis, there might be a need for extraordinary measures and, in this regard, only a month ago, we guided member states about additional measures that they can take up to protect their retail consumers and also to tackle the situation where the ttf gas price is extraordinarily high. we don’t have any safeguards that the dynamics of this price will be different in the near future. with regard to the question asking what the commission can do about different pricing models or trading platforms, we are monitoring whether there is any market manipulation. this has also been the same for the pricing components that are added to the fossil fuels. so the services are monitoring the market developments and, if we see that there is manipulation, we will of course take action.
this is very good news, commissioners, and thank you very much for your response. i would like just to say that the suggestions coming from acer are looking for medium- and long-term solutions. in the cases (inaudible) the commission is ready to intervene in a very short measure. and that’s why i insist on very short measures. thank you very much once again.
member of the commission. – there will be another communication from the commission at the end of may. right now, the services are discussing what will be our clear guidance. that’s why i am not in the position where i can give details to you right now. but, of course, we are taking it very seriously that our households will be impacted by the very high gas price. and another measure that the commission can use and what is at our disposal is this platform where we will pool up the demand and member states voluntarily can participate in joint purchase programmes. that should also allow our companies to find alternative gas supplies at a more competitive price.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for your clarifications and i would like to ask you if, however, you do not think that in the conditions we are all going through because of the war that russia has started in ukraine, other types of measures should be taken than those we are taking and to which we are traditionally accustomed. and the question is how exactly do you think you should, however, monitor these gas importers, especially because the price of energy, unfortunately, is tied to the price of gas, so that we can make sure that there is no abuse of dominant market power, given the fact that in the european union you don't really have a choice where you go to buy gas. mainly because there are only a few big producers and lots of gas. and i think this would require a much more precise approach on your part, so that it does not satisfy gazprom, which, by cutting off gas supplies to poland or bulgaria or another country, can also have the satisfaction of upsetting the economy of the european union.
member of the commission. – mr nica, i very strongly agree with you that at a time of war, we can’t continue business as usual. and i very much encourage our governments, but i also reach out to the parliaments, whenever i can, to find alternatives. even if the war will be over and russia is out of ukraine’s borders, we should not end up in a situation where we are so dependent on one supplier and, in this regard, several governments have done very bold steps to replace their russian imports with alternatives. just a week ago, i was in poland. after tomorrow, i’m going back there because i will open the new pipeline connection that allows poland to use also energy drawn from lithuania. soon they will have a pipeline that connects them with norway. so they have been prepared for the situation that actually took place last week. about conventional measures, i think that the clearest testimony that i am open for extraordinary measures is the way we encourage member states and transmission system operators to solve the problem that was there in ukraine after they started their island test, and they had to be reliant on their own capability until our entso-e decided to synchronise them with europe. so it was supposed to happen by the end of next year and they did it within 16 days. so this really shows that, in the energy sector, we are doing our utmost to support ukraine to get rid of this dangerous dependency, and by doing so also taking care of our consumers so that the prices will be as affordable as we can provide.
thank you for the clarification, commissioner, and i'm glad it's not business as usual. my question is: will there be any electricity or gas company in the european union this winter that can sell at a profit rate of, say, more than 15%? and will we no longer have the examples we saw this winter, where the producers of energy or gas sold at prices ten times their cost price? because these prices were paid by companies firing people or people who had to pay their bills, no longer buying food or medicine. what assurance can you give us, commissioner?
member of the commission. – indeed, during the winter months, during the heating season, our consumption of natural gas is significantly higher than during the summer. so in april we, as the eu27, consume 40% less natural gas than in january. we already have to start preparations for the next heating season now and member states have done so. injections to underground storage are taking place all across europe. i am very grateful to the european parliament that you decided to opt for an extraordinary procedure so that that we could guide member states in the way that they take up the measures and fill their underground gas storage at least 80% before the next heating season starts. so this actually gives us some safeguard before the next heating season. of course we also have to find alternatives. one obvious alternative for the heating season is electrification where we can. heat pumps are an available technology and we have to promote these alternatives so that households who are really willing to take care of their safety next winter will already think about that during this summer.
madam president, commissioner, europe needs to rapidly strengthen alternatives to the import of natural gas from russia. one possibility is to increase the supply of liquefied natural gas at the entrance to europe, for example by exploiting existing terminals on the iberian peninsula. but for that we need to strengthen the link to the interconnection of the pyrenees. my question is: what are the commission's plans to speed up and help this project to progress rapidly?
member of the commission. – thank you for your question. and indeed, well, compared to the previous gas crisis when russia cut off the gas supplies via ukraine in 2009, now we do have a pretty impressive lng network in place in europe, but many of the lng terminals are located in the iberian peninsula, which is not well interconnected. so we have mapped the possible alternative routes for each and every member state which is dependent on russian gas, and indeed the iberian peninsula lacks interconnection to france. so what we have asked our gas system operators entsog, we have asked them to map the possible bottlenecks that prevent us from using existing capacity. of course, they are also mapping the possible sites for floating lng terminals in the regions where they are closer to the countries which will lose russian supply. and we are not mapping only the gas infrastructure. we will prioritise as much renewables where we can replace natural gas with renewables, especially in power generation, we should do so because this helps us to get rid of imports. i am not saying that, well, imports from our reliable partners are a threat to us. but, well, just replacing partially russian gas with our own production is good for our economy and helps us to keep in mind what we are committed to for 2050 and 2030. and that’s why in this repowereu financing plan, there will be not only gas projects but also renewables.
thank you very much, commissioner. i fully agree with you that renewables and energy efficiency are very important alternatives. but mapping is not enough. we need a very concrete roadmap of procedures and funding in order to push forward both renewables, energy efficiency and the interlinks, especially the ones through the pyrenees. when do you think that you will have these concrete actions to show us?
member of the commission. – you can expect concrete actions in our repowereu proposal, which will be due after two weeks. i do believe that this is a very important challenge that we have to solve – that the iberian peninsula – portugal, spain –are not sufficiently interconnected, but i would prioritise in this time frame the electricity interconnections. in our preparation for next heating season, the possible pipeline project might be too slow. and that’s why we are in a position where we have to coordinate other lng shipments between the lng terminals that, until very recently, didn’t work at full capacity. we have to upgrade the production of clean gas this year in europe, and of course again, where we can produce electricity by avoiding natural gas as a source, we should do so.
thank you, commissioner, for coming here to debate with us. it is more than clear that we have to substitute fossil fuels as much as we can through renewables. but my very concrete question is: are you intending to launch a call to european citizens and companies that can afford it to spare energy, to spare the use of gas, to reduce the consumption of oil for the sake of reducing energy prices for all those in our society who cannot afford to pay the energy bills anymore, and for the sake of reducing the amount of euros that we are sending towards russia for their warfare on a daily basis? wouldn’t that be a measurement where we all could stand in solidarity with our people in society that are less wealthy and reduce the financing or indirect financing of war that we’re doing vis—à—vis russia? are you intending to launch such a call?
member of the commission. – i absolutely agree with you that partially our solution has to be connected to the savings. energy savings will help us to reduce the costs for consumers and help us to replace some of the imports. actually, the very first weeks of the war i, together with executive director of the international energy agency, we presented a ten—step plan how to cut gas consumption. and they also presented another plan, how to cut oil consumption. now, on energy efficiency, the commission is elaborating a union—wide energy savings campaign aimed at strengthening the contribution of energy efficiency and energy savings. because there are millions of small steps that each and every household can take, and altogether they will bring us huge savings. so we have to communicate it very loud and clearly and call on our citizens to think about that because sometimes all that is necessary is to be aware of the impact of your behaviour. and there are already, as i was mentioning, some good lists what everyone can do, but now we have to also call member states to strengthen their energy efficiency plans. and we are planning to do that too, because emergency plans have to be aligned with savings.
thank you, commissioner, for sharing these plans with us. i would just urge you to be louder in communicating those. i think it is a very crucial moment, and we can count on the solidarity and the cooperation of our citizens. so please speak out loud on energy savings.
member of the commission. – i will do my best, but if i can have a counter-request to you – you are the ones who are meeting every day, every week with tens and hundreds and thousands of voters, so please help me to do that.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i don't want to repeat myself. we all know that europe's raison d'être is to become independent of russia's energy resources. we need to look for new ways to import these raw materials. we need to develop renewable energy. but my question is about the surplus energy production in ukraine. at the moment, ukraine has a rather large surplus of energy production, including from nuclear power plants. and my question is: is the european commission going to buy this energy from ukraine? because on the one hand, it's a great way to diversify the energy purchases of the european union's member states, and on the other hand, it would be a great form of support for the ukrainians who are fighting putin's russia, which is so ruthlessly murdering their citizens. and it is the ukrainians today who also need money for this fight, as well as for the functioning of the ukrainian state.
member of the commission. – indeed, this is the situation in ukraine right now – they are able to produce more electricity than they need for their own consumption. just last week, on tuesday, we had a ceremony in warsaw where we accepted the ukrainian dso as a member of entso-e, which means that the ukrainian grid is now interconnected, together with moldova, with the continental european grid. this is an emergency synchronisation. we have to do our utmost so that we can have a final synchronisation, so that commercial trade will not have any unwanted impact on the stability of our grid. poland has already introduced a pilot project, so there is a (inaudible) connection between poland and ukraine and ukrainians are already selling electricity to poland. i think that this is a very fine example of how poland was able to get rid of russian coal. they partially replaced their energy need with imports from ukraine and by doing so, they help ukrainian company to take care of their liquidity because, of course, when there are millions of families who have left ukraine, they do have a problem with electricity bills and payments. so, we have to help the ukrainian dso so that the final synchronisation can take place as fast as possible. there are some technical issues that we need to deliver on, mainly connected to the nuclear power plants. but i do have a member in my team who has dedicated a significant amount of her time to find a solution for this situation.
if the commissioner would be so kind as to elaborate a little, because i do not quite understand the problem with the fact that this energy produced in ukraine comes from nuclear energy. yes, poland already buys energy from ukraine, but my question was going in this direction: is the european commission going to create an instrument that will buy this surplus energy from ukraine, no matter what source it is produced from, for more member states than just what poland is doing today?
member of the commission. – well, after the necessary technical steps have been made and ukraine is fully synchronised with our grid, then they have the full right to participate in our market and their energy production companies can earn the same revenues as other market participants. so we actually don’t need to create any additional body that accommodates it. they can participate in our energy market as all the rest of us can, and this is not extraordinary. we do have market zones where third-party companies are selling their products to the european market. but this demands full synchronisation. that is why i was explaining what we are doing right now to achieve this next step, which is a logical step after the emergency synchronisation that took place already at the beginning of march.
member of the commission. – i will start with the second part of the question. right now, we reached out to the member states to map the necessary bottlenecks that avoid us providing solidarity to the neighbours. based on this list we then can map the financing needs. so at first we have to identify if there are necessary investments that we have not made so far because there are lots of lng terminals already under construction so we can expect that there will be several of them coming to the market in next two years. there are several pipelines financed by eu funds that will help us send our member states to get rid of russian imports. then, on the acer report, as i was mentioning, we received this final report only last friday. and acer was tasked to give us a guidance, how we can avoid unnecessary and unwanted volatility at these extraordinary times. so indeed, they gave us some clear guidance, what we can do in the mid— and long—term. and also extended this to the explanation that in the immediate term, the most useful steps are towards retail market that member states can take. and we have given two sets of guidance to member states, what are the measures that are in line already with the existing eu regulation. i do know that, in the may euco, the heads of governments will discuss again the situation at the electricity market, and by that time we will come up with our recommendations.
member of the commission. – well, indeed. you asked me if the iberian peninsula will be interconnected with gas pipelines which are hydrogen—ready. and we just concluded the trilogues on self-financing and infrastructure that is hydrogen—ready, that means that is future-proof, could be financed also partially by eu funds, and this is known to all of us. repowereu additional plan and additional mapping is trying to identify the emergency needs so that we can help member states who will be hit by full disruption this year. but also to map the medium-term investments that will help us by the end of this decade, or well before that, replace fully russian gas imports. now, i do prioritise electricity interconnections. i do believe that well—interconnected markets can accommodate more renewables and this is beneficial for both sides, not only the ones who do produce lots of renewables, but also the other ones, other market participants who will benefit out of these hours where electricity is really coming with very affordable prices. that’s why i have expressed my strong commitment to the ministers, and i truly hope that the project managers will find a way so that there will be many more electricity interconnections. right now, the european commission is financing the skybay interconnector, but this is clearly not enough. and we will encourage the counterparts to proceed with additional interconnections.
i have to say, madam president, i am grateful to the commissioner for allowing us to try out this new instrument and means in this house today. my question is very specific: the current eu vat directive already allows member states to reduce the vat rate to 5%. in your toolbox of 21 october you mentioned the possibility that member states could do this in the context of the energy crisis and price developments. my very specific question to you is: are you aware of this or do you know why the austrian federal government has not already introduced this vat reduction?
member of the commission. – well, we do have a full list of different measures that different governments have adopted. right now, i can say that all the governments have announced that they have made a decision to use some of our proposed measures. but, of course, this was a very broad range of measures. we wanted to achieve the situation that the final bill for consumers, retail consumers, will be more affordable, and on average in the european union, only one third of the final bill represents the real price of electricity. one third is transmission costs and one third is different levies and taxes. these are national decisions that member states and their governments will adopt. all together, these measures are designed in a way that the final costs for households will not exceed their paying ability. i know that some member states have opted for a different solution; they have decided that they will provide direct vouchers to the households that are most vulnerable. i visited austria just a month ago, but unfortunately, in the current moment, there are big challenges ahead of us, and austria is one of the most dependent member states. the political discussion was more around the future plans and preparedness than the measures that the government has taken already.
- i'm not sure. a second question, related to the first, of course. in addition to the state, which is again and again the beneficiary of increased and massively increased tax revenues from energy prices, there are of course also energy companies that profit madly from the high energy prices and also generate record revenues. in austria, for example, it is the partially nationalised ömv which has now tripled its profit, and this, of course, at the expense of the population. the question now is: are we thinking about whether there should be profit ceilings for energy companies, for example?
member of the commission. – well, how you tax profits is also a national decision. but from the energy policy perspective, we gave guidance to member states, if they are willing to use this voluntary guidance, on how to handle the windfall profits that companies do earn due to the extraordinary high gas prices. so, this guidance is a public document. we provided it already a month ago, in march. so, this is one of the options for national governments to consider.
madam president, commissioner, europe could be represented as a chained giant in terms of energy. in other words, a global player with the capacity to compete strategically, but limited and burdened by being chained by the absence of strategic autonomy in the field of energy. that is what has been made clear to us, among many other, much more unfortunate, issues, the war in ukraine. we must act on the urgent measures, but we must act in the opposite direction from what has been done, which, instead of promoting strategic energy independence, has for many years been promoting dependence, which must now be resolved. as regards gas, it should be borne in mind that the commission has considered gas, together with energy from nuclear energy, as an environmentally sustainable source of energy during the energy transition period. there are very concrete ways of resolving and at least initiating the resolution of the lack of interconnection between the iberian peninsula and the continent... (the president interrupts the speaker)
excuse me, could you give your question to the commission?
i'm not gonna ask the second question, if you don't mind. i shall give up my last thirty seconds and conclude with this question: projects of common interest are there, they are a formula for boosting infrastructure development. the midcat was a project with all the backing and the commission did not consider it. the question is: will the commission include the midcat project as a project of common interest? if so, when?
okay, thank you, but i need to say that it is for questions and one minute at a time for the first question and then 30 seconds. you spoke for two and a half, i think. i give the floor to the commissioner.
member of the commission. – well, as we just concluded the trilogue, this parliament and member states know that the new pipelines have to be hydrogen-ready. so to enter to the next pci list, the pipeline project should not be designed to transport natural gas as such, but it has to be hydrogen-ready. on the projects that are already on the pci list, we will open the next goals after three weeks. all the projects that are already major enough can apply for eu co-financing.
president, commissioner simson, this debate is about the strategic importance of renewable energy. however, renewable energy is the cause of our complete dependence on russian gas. more renewable energy means more dependence. solar and wind energy cannot be stored. in the absence of solar and wind, a backup plant that is 100% gas-fired is the only option. this means that renewable energy is a strategic risk to our self-sufficiency. you propose that by 2030, 40 percent of our energy come from renewable sources. i'm asking you to stop this irrational obsession. there are 450 million citizens and over 22 million businesses in the european union who need affordable and reliable energy, and it is our responsibility to provide it. existing nuclear and fossil fuel power stations must be reopened immediately to ensure security of supply and investment in new nuclear power stations is still needed today. does the commissioner also see the risk of renewable energy and is she prepared to focus instead on cleaner, more reliable nuclear energy?
member of the commission. – thank you for your question and this is really impressive how you keep repeating that nuclear is also needed for energy mix. so, this is actually the sovereign right of every member state to choose their energy mix. and some of our member states have announced that they plan to build new nuclear power plants. we guide them to do that in the way that they respect the highest safety standards and this is our responsibility. and we are not only taking care of nuclear safety here in europe, but also in our closest neighbourhood. so in this regard, one of my major concerns right now is also the situation in ukraine, where they do have nuclear power plants. one of them is occupied by russian troops, but they still keep going. and from our side, we provide them the necessary equipment. now, the challenges that renewables are presenting. well, you said that our investments in renewables will create situation where we will be 100% dependent on russian gas. no, this is not true. we have never been 100% dependent on russian gas. they provide a significant share of gas that we do consume, but this significant share has never been more than 40 and, day by day, this is decreasing because of the hard work that we are doing to reach out to alternative suppliers. and in past weeks we have witnessed record high deliveries of lng shipments to our terminals and that shows that alternatives are possible. we will need gas also in the next decade but we do our utmost so that partially this gas demand will be covered by our own production and also by the production of biomethane and green hydrogen. so, energy mix is decided by the member states. we do support them so that they can do it in accordance with three principles: decarbonisation, affordability and security of supply.
i have not said that we will get 100 per cent russian gas, mr president, but that when we switch to renewable energy we must have a back-up plant that is 100 per cent fossil fuel. in that case, are you prepared to release the 40% renewable energy quota by 2030? this is a huge risk.
mr president, the threat of cyber attacks on our critical infrastructure and on our economy has increased. cybercriminals, for example, have targeted our energy system, and we know that there's a political agenda behind that. we must be better prepared to deal with this and i thank the commissioner for the proposals he has made in this area. in the cyber domain, attackers are always looking for weaknesses. and as a defender, you have to do everything right, whereas as an attacker, you only need one weak spot. so we need to think much more strategically about which parties we allow into our critical infrastructure to reduce the risk of potential cyberattacks. i think it is extremely naive that we are using chinese scanning equipment in european ports and airports to check people and goods crossing our border. i think it's naive that we use chinese communications technology in our core networks. these are areas where we must eliminate risks and where we should encourage european industry. we have been too naive in protecting our european ideas, technology and data for too long. economic security is not just the responsibility of companies themselves, it's a public interest. we are too vulnerable and let us in europe work together to reduce that.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. until now, member states have entered the data on suspects into the schengen information system. if you all agree to this proposal, you will give europol the right to enter data itself, even for people who have never been convicted. that is another step closer to a federal eu police force. i have exactly the same objections to that as i do to many other federal agencies: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the european data protection supervisor concluded in january that europol had been illegally storing data on non-suspected persons for years. instead of stopping there, they are now asking you and me to extend their powers so that they can whitewash this behaviour. this is not the eu we want. the commission has always been full of the rule of law. are these eu agencies above the law? not as far as i'm concerned. i am counting on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote against this proposal.
mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, dear minister, the president is right – european history will be written in ukraine. that is why our support for a free european democracy against brutal russian aggression is paramount right now. it is our historic responsibility to do everything possible to show this solidarity, including hard and far—reaching sanctions, and i’m happy to hear that a deal has been reached on a ban on russian oil. it is an important next step, but it is certainly not the last one that we will need. while this parliament strongly supports the sanctions, we also already see the negative consequences this war has for europe. after years of pandemic, we see the economic struggle of many households in the european union. and our reaction to the pandemic, despite some challenges in the beginning, was based on one of our strongest assets – solidarity. with the next generation eu fund we managed to show that we can stand together in times of crisis, and the same – and probably more – is needed now because we all know what putin is trying to do. he’s trying to divide us, to play member state against member states and to count that the social hardship that we will face will dry out our firm support for ukraine. putin is trying to divide europe, to divide our societies. he is counting on our inability to manage this great challenge together. we cannot colleagues, and we will not, let him succeed in this. let us show that we will face this challenge together, the east and the west of europe, the north and the south. let us show that all that he is succeeding in will be to revive the european social model, the promise of a european union where nobody will be left behind. for that, we will need joint efforts, investments, a solidarity fund to balance out the social inequality. and we will have to proceed in creating a real social safety net on the european level by finally introducing a european minimum wage, closing the gender pay gap and, yes, also a european minimum income. this continent is weakest when it is divided and strongest when it is united. let us be united against putin!
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). let 's be clear . the high inflation rate is not due in large part to the war in ukraine. it was already there thanks to the monetary policy of the unpredictable ecb, which has been running the money presses at record speed for years, thanks to our governments that have shut down the economy with elongated lockdowns and thanks to the european union's green deal that creates greenflation that causes energy, food and raw material prices to rise sharply. but the war has caused energy prices to skyrocket even further. affordable energy is the foundation of our economy and therefore of our prosperity and well-being. it is unacceptable that russia has invaded ukraine and i understand the need to do something about it very well. i myself have consistently advocated eu unity against russian aggression, but we must ask ourselves: are the sanctions working? do they really have the right effect on russia? so far, it doesn't look like it. are we going to proceed with another round of energy sanctions? not only did russia record record profits from higher energy prices, but also because its oil exports increased by 100,000 barrels per day from 2021. despite our sanctions, because asia benefits and the world turns out to be bigger than the european union. and we have to import gas, because otherwise our economy collapses. more and more people are not making ends meet. we have to stop shooting ourselves in the foot. it is the duty of politics to ensure the well-being and safety of our citizens. i want to avoid the situation where we have to see russia get richer and the european union get poorer. further escalation must be avoided and world leaders must work towards a solution to bring the parties to the negotiating table. this has benefited both the people of the european union and the ukrainians.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. – madam president, today i was meant to give my opinion about the breach of discharge, and in this breach of discharge the parliament often reflects about gender balance and gender equality. we often call for access to sexual reproductive health and rights. that means we want safe and legal access to abortion. i am therefore outraged at the recent developments in the united states. this is an injustice. banning abortion does not mean fewer abortions; it only means unsafe abortions. it means that the bodily integrity, dignity and self-determination of half of the population is violated. while some of us strongly defend this fundamental right in our parliament, in the us, the conservatives are trying to dismantle it. this vile movement to repress women’s rights is transnational and it is on our doorstep. so we must stand with the women of the us fighting to prevent the overruling of roe v. wade, and let this be a lesson. we should keep fighting for more and more budget to guarantee access to sexual and reproductive health and rights for every single woman. our body, our lives, our choice.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, 2020 has been a year of many challenges, including for the institutions and agencies whose work we are reviewing today. the vast majority have been very good at adapting to the pandemic and helping europeans, each in their own field. but problems persisted and still persist. one that i would say is widespread is the one of major geographical and gender imbalances in staffing levels, especially in leadership roles. we have this situation in many institutions, from the commission to the parliament to the european external action service. i hope that this problem will be taken more seriously in the future and that the situation will be improved at the next discharge.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, one of the biggest causes of scepticism within the european union is the fear among the european union’s citizens that our money isn’t being spent well, or their money isn’t being spent well – the money that they work really hard to get in the first place and pay tax on it. it comes out here and we spend it and various agencies spend it. so, what i would say is, overall i would be positive on the whole thing. i congratulate all the agencies and joint agencies that will be granted discharge and well done on your cooperation. in particular the committee of the regions – i’ll vote in favour of discharge because the robert mccoy case has finally and fairly been settled. in relation to the european court of auditors. i think overall it’s a fine organisation. i got elected to the european parliament as a sceptic. my scepticism has been somewhat tempered and that scepticism was tempered because of my dealings with the european court of auditors. i found them to be exceptionally honest, good to work with, and they are the speedometer on our car and tell us whether we’re going too fast and if we’re wasting money or not. so the recent revelations, or allegations, about the european court of auditors have saddened me, and i understand we have to be very careful in criticising it because it adds to euroscepticism. but at the same time, we’ve got to ask the hard questions and i don’t think we should shoot the messenger here because we are asking important questions, because we want to add to the credibility of the european court of auditors and to make sure it isn’t damaged. but i will be voting to postpone the discharge. finally, on the european council, what the hell are ye at? i’ll say it again, scepticism is a danger to the european union. if you don’t engage, you give petrol to throw on the flames of scepticism. cop on! because you are destroying the very project you claim you want to protect!
madam president, our budgets express our souls. taxes allocated to our agencies should under no circumstances be used to infringe human rights, like pushbacks at our borders, a practice where frontex plays a very shady role. frontex and the agency for asylum must serve a policy that seeks to secure our borders, while defending fundamental rights and protecting refugees. however, we have a long way to go, because member states too often infringe international law against asylum seekers. the case of amir zahiri and akif rasuli, two afghan refugees in lesbos, is a valid example. after their boat wreck, they were accused of human trafficking and condemned to 50 years of prison after a ten—minute trial at which no evidence was examined. their appeals keep being postponed and postponed while they remain in prison. this must end and our agencies must stop covering them up.
madam president, it’s fair to say that this year’s eca discharge was quite eventful. at the end of this procedure, i would like to draw two main conclusions. first, that the court has spent its budget in full compliance with the applicable rules, as was also confirmed by independent external auditors. secondly, that some of these rules are in need of an update to improve the functioning of the court and to avoid any potential issues in the future. the court, to its credit, has shown great commitment in cooperating with parliament on such recommendations and has already proactively implemented the bulk of them. however, these two objective conclusions are hardly reflected in the discharge resolution or the proposed decision to postpone. this is worrying because discharges should be about fact-based assessments and not about political considerations. we should lead by example and avoid suggestive statements that even contradict the opinions of our own legal service. so i count on your support, colleagues, for the factual corrections that i have tabled to the resolution and to support the granting of discharge to the european court of auditors.
madam president, i wanted to thank daniel freund for his excellent work on the parliamentary discharge. but president, i hope that you will allow me to colour outside the lines a little bit because i’m not going to get another chance to say this today, and this is the european parliament. because i too, was furious last night because of the goings-on on abortion in the us and the leaked supreme court opinion. and waking up this morning and reading about oklahoma surely didn’t make things any better. and so i wanted to use my one minute here to give a voice to all the european women and men who are as furious as me today and send a message of support to all those in the us who will be taking to the streets saying ‘no to going back in time’. and of course we are facing similar problems within the european union because i suppose that ultra-conservative forces all over are hell-bent on putting women’s rights at the absolute bottom of the list. but i wanted to go on record here that members of the european parliament are furious too, and that they recognise that this is not only an american fight, but that this is a fight in a europe that stands in solidarity with american women.
mr president, i ask you all: do you want to make the energy transition for our maritime sector a success? then everyone in this house will no doubt applaud. the pandemic has had a huge impact on the maritime sector and on the transport and logistics sector in general over the past two years. on top of this is the terrible war in ukraine, which has resulted in higher fuel prices. at the same time, we must all prepare ourselves for the reality of tomorrow. that future, as far as i'm concerned, is safe and green. and the industry is already doing so much. think of the first inland waterway vessel to be powered by hydrogen, the ms anthony, or the maritime master plan in which all the players from my own country - the dutch maritime sector - are involved. but we as parliament also have a role to play in this whole thing, for example by bringing the whole 'fit for 55' package to a very good conclusion. and specifically, as far as i am concerned, the shore-side electricity grid for our ports. but there is also a role for european agencies, such as the european maritime safety agency. their role will only increase with these new rules for a safe, green maritime sector. i think that we really need to take this into account in this review. because the green future of our industry has already been set out on the water and let us all join together to steer it into a safe and sustainable harbour.
madam president, i will conclude here what appears to be a dutch round, so i’m the last of the four. we had a lot of discussion on the discharge on the agencies. of course, a lot of discussion went on frontex. well, we’ve seen, of course, some of the developments and director leggeri stepping down, but that doesn’t mean that the problems in frontex are being solved. i really think that also even the way he stepped down shows that still within frontex there is no clear perception that they are supposed also to take into full consideration human rights. that’s not because we want a human rights agency; we want to be sure that our borders are being protected in full alignment with the human rights. i think that really deserves a cultural change, and i think there our report is also very clear why we postponed the discharge and on what criteria we’re doing it. i just want to use the last 10 minutes to really look to the commission. for the greens, discharge on the commission will be linked to what you do on the rule of law. really, commissioner hahn, you need to step up and have a broad interpretation of the conditionality mechanism, not the narrow legalistic one.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european parliament has long been the home of political accusations against certain member states by the rule of law. it's the site of the formulation of these political lies. for years we have seen the european left, and more recently the people's party, accuse and slander certain member states of alleged misuse of eu funds. so here is an opportunity to look at how the eu institutions manage the money of european taxpayers in the context of protecting the financial interests of the european union. we see that in 2020, according to the european court of auditors report, the amount of funds that were misused, misused, exceeded 4 billion euros. the protection of the european union's financial interests is primarily the responsibility of the eu institutions... (the president shall take the floor)
the commission's communication on the implementation of the 2020-2020 programme of action on the prevention and management of the financial crisis, which was adopted by the council on 14 december 2020, sets out the main priorities for the 2020-2020 programme. the positive judgments of the court on the reliability of the accounts of all the agencies, the regularity and legality of the revenue and, with some exceptions, of the payments underlying the accounts, should therefore be welcomed. the number of observations indicating that there is still room for improvement also decreased compared with the previous year. however, weaknesses in internal controls, procurement procedures and budget management need to be addressed in order to ensure greater transparency and financial fairness and gender balance needs to be strengthened, especially in senior roles. finally, a comment on frontex, which calls for full disclosure of the outcome of the olaf investigation, which is still ongoing, of the critical points identified and for them to be fully implemented by the agency under the conditions laid down for this parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak about an agency called 'fusion for energy' and about iter. i will give you three reasons why we should not vote for this discharge. the first argument is financial. we have not been given a specific timetable for expenditure. you know that it was originally 5 billion, we know that we have committed 17 billion and the us energy directorate general tells us about 65 billion, and when we asked for the exact timetable, we did not receive it. secondly, this project is obsolete at the moment. indeed, the ipcc report states that there are still three years to really make the transition. what about iter? but the plant may be ready in 2035 and the first electricity in 2050, so it's too late! finally, one element that has disturbed me a lot, and which i really need to stress, is management. thanks to the budget control committee, a hearing was organised with whistleblowers and it was learned that there were suicides, stress and unfair dismissals within this agency. it is essential that efforts be made in the management of personnel.
the commission's report on the discharge calls for attention to be paid to palestinian schoolbooks. because once again european taxpayers' money has been spent on school textbooks full of anti-semitism, full of calls for hatred and violence. this problem has been going on for years. parliament has also criticised this expenditure for years. the problem, however, is not going away. a recent study shows that the content is actually deteriorating. the eu cannot and must not tolerate this any longer. so my appeal is: freeze the funds until palestinian schoolbooks meet international standards of peace and tolerance. i ask you to support the paragraph on this in the discharge report. we cannot fight anti-semitism within the eu and at the same time subsidize anti-semitism outside the european union. that is unacceptable.
mr. president, the shady chinese organ trade is a matter of grave concern to us. there are reports of systematic organ harvesting, mostly targeting falun gong practitioners and prisoners. the lack of transparency in organ transplants does not make the situation any better. this question is not in itself, however: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which is intended to promote the development of the environment in the european union. how many times have we spoken out about the uyghurs and hong kong, and about the increasing pressure on christians and other religious minorities? what is the eu doing about this? are we only addressing the chinese government on the sidelines of summits or are we daring to extend the european sanctions package against china? as far as i'm concerned, we're doing it last. this is not only in the interests of our credibility, but above all in the interests of our oppressed fellow chinese.
madam president, dear commissioner, we have all heard terrible reports in the past weeks about russian troops using rape as a weapon of war against ukrainian women who have stayed behind. and we’ve also heard heart—breaking stories about pregnant ukrainians fleeing to poland who are in need of an abortion there, but discover that they cannot get it because of the de facto abortion ban. moreover, they are actually greeted with anti—abortion propaganda. this includes women who have been raped, but also people who have fled, and now they just cannot get access to a safe abortion. this is a horrible situation you don’t wish to anyone. we need to support ukrainian refugees with basic sexual and reproductive health and services wherever they go. if this cannot be assured in one member state, we need to make sure that they get this support in another country as soon as possible. these are things that can not wait, and i hope the commission will inform us on how they plan to act as quickly as possible on this, and help these victims of war with dignity.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 may 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. after the collapse of the soviet union, estonia immediately set about building up the country's democratic institutions. estonia has chosen the path of a free market economy. the story of estonia's restoration of independence is a success story. unfortunately, the democratization of moldova and its transition to a free market economy have stalled. the main obstacle was the conflict in transnistria, i.e. the presence of russian troops on the territory of moldova. under the leadership of president maia sandu, moldova has made significant progress. exports from moldova are redirected from the eastern market to the european union. in the past year, moldova has also made significant progress in media freedom. in one year, it has risen from 89th to 40th in the world's media freedom index. in the light of these developments, i see the possibility of granting moldova the status of candidate country to the european union in the near future.
the next item is the commission statement on the murder of palestinian journalist shireen abu akleh and the violent disturbances at her funeral (2022/2688 (rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members, on behalf of high representative vice—president josep borrell, let me make the following statement. last week, we received the shocking news of the killing of journalist shireen abu aqla, who was killed by a gunshot when she was reporting on an israeli military operation taking place in jenin in the occupied palestinian territory on 11 may. the external action service spokesperson issued a statement on the same day strongly condemning her killing and sending condolences to her family, friends and colleagues. another journalist, ali al—samoudi, was wounded. the eu has called for a thorough and independent investigation clarifying the circumstances that led to her death. it is essential that this investigation clarify all the circumstances of these incidents, and as soon as possible, and that those responsible are brought to justice. it is unacceptable to target journalists while they perform their jobs. journalists covering conflict situations must be ensured safety and protection at all times. the european union stands in solidarity with journalists and will continue to support their fundamental work, in particular while covering conflicts. just days after world press freedom day, the european union recalls the crucial role played by journalists, media workers and free and independent media. honourable members, on friday last week, 13 may, during the funeral procession of shireen abu aqla, we witnessed scenes that showed disproportionate use of force and disrespectful behaviour against participants of the mourning procession. the high representative / vice—president gave a statement on the same day, noting that the european union is appalled by the events that took place during the funeral procession. the eu condemned this disproportionate use of force and the disrespectful behaviour. the eu reiterates its call for a thorough and independent investigation that clarifies all the circumstances of the death of shireen abu aqla and brings those responsible for killing her to justice.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, the loss of any innocent life is a tragedy, and so is the death of shireen abu aqla. i am equally disturbed by the violence seen at her funeral, but the rush to any judgement before the conclusion of a credible investigation is irresponsible. shireen abu aqla was killed during the israeli anti-terror operation following the murder of 19 israelis in a spate of terror attacks within the past few weeks. despite overtures by the israeli authorities to conduct a joint investigation with the palestinian authorities, the palestinian side has refused this offer. the tragic death of shireen abu aqla is a sad reminder of the spiral of violence taking place that continues to haunt this region. that is why we must seek the truth by supporting a joint inquiry rather than fuel any flames of hate and violence. finally, let me also state that we must do all in our power to ensure mechanisms and safeguards to protect journalists. in 2021 only, 55 journalists have been killed around the world, while a free press is one of the key pillars to support freedom and democracy and society that protects human rights. here in europe, the brutal killings of daphne caruana galizia in malta and ján kuciak in slovakia are a stark reminder that the pressure from international communities to impartial investigation plays an important role in ensuring the truth is exposed and the perpetrators are brought to justice.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, shireen abu akleh, a palestinian-american journalist who worked for al-jazeera for 25 years, was killed on 11 may while reporting from yenin. he was one of the most prominent voices in the middle east, covering the arab-israeli conflict for decades; he was working in a helmet and a vest with the word press in large letters on it when he was fatally shot in the head just where his helmet was not covering him. on behalf of this house and the socialist and democratic group, i would like to convey our deepest sympathy to the family and friends of the palestinian journalist, as well as to all those who appreciated her and her work. we will miss shireen and we condemn with all our strength this cruel murder, but we do not stop at condemnation or weeping: we want to ask for explanations and actions. on the one hand, this house must call for a swift, international and impartial investigation to clarify all the circumstances in which this heinous act occurred, and on the other hand, we also call for an equally determined investigation into the violent acts that occurred at his funeral last weekend, because the images of a coffin on the shoulders of friends and relatives being attacked by the israeli security forces with blows and blows strike our hearts and indignate us: no one should suffer this inhuman treatment at the funeral of a relative or a friend, it is contrary to freedom of worship and human dignity. this tragedy is a symptom of growing frustration and tension on the ground, fuelled by the complete absence of progress in the peace process after seventy-four years of the creation of the state of israel and the beginning of the occupation of palestine. the situation of palestinians in the west bank and east jerusalem is deteriorating day by day, mainly due to house demolitions, threats of evictions and the continuing construction of settlements. we cannot forget journalists and media workers either. in a few weeks i will be leading a high-level delegation from our socialist and democratic group to israel and palestine. i would like to end by making it clear that the message we have to convey is our utter condemnation and that we need to move forward with a genuine peace process for israel and palestine.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, one week ago, shireen abu aqla, a prominent al jazeera journalist, was killed. she was killed while reporting in the west bank. i’m as shocked and dismayed as you are, and i’m not sure what shocks me most – her death or the utter disrespect by israeli police at her funeral, which i strongly condemn. forty—two palestinian journalists have been killed in 2022. to get the facts straight, it is clear that we need an independent inquiry into the killing of shireen, and we need to do better to protect journalists both within and outside our union. media freedom is a cornerstone of our democracy. but colleagues, apart from the shock, i’m also angry – angry about the fact that too often we here in europe look away when the spiral of violence continues, when new settlements plans are announced, or when another journalist gets killed or wounded. we all agree that we must tackle the root causes of this conflict. so let’s get to work and play our role. shireen was called ‘the voice of palestine’. let us now commit to be the voice of shireen. we have neglected the conflict too long. we must put new energy into bringing lasting peace between israel and palestine.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i condemn in the strongest terms the killing of palestinian journalist shireen abu aqla, as well as the wounding of ali al—samoudi. i express my utmost shock at the attacks by israeli forces at her funeral procession where thousands of palestinians gathered in mourning. this killing constitutes a very grave attack on press freedom. the targeting of journalists and media in palestine must cease. more than 40 palestinian journalists have been killed since the year 2000. more than ever, journalists are key to expose the protracted climate of impunity and violations of international human rights and humanitarian law in the occupied palestinian territories. i call for an immediate, thorough, independent investigation into the killing and the violence at the funeral, and for those responsible to be held accountable. i call on israel and the palestinian authorities to cooperate with such investigation, and i call on the eu to go beyond a statement of condemnation. we cannot be a passive bystander in front of such crimes. this attack happens in a context of growing tensions and violence, with terrorist attacks in israeli cities, increased settler violence around the settlements, clashes at the holy sites in jerusalem during ramadan, and forced evictions and demolitions in the west bank, including of eu—funded projects. until when has this to go on? enough is enough. i call on the eu to take, at long last, a resolute initiative to uphold international law in the region and to secure genuine negotiations towards a two—state solution.
on behalf of the group of the european right, i would like to say that our thoughts are with the families of the journalist shireen abu akleh. what a shock. it's so sad to lose someone you love like that. the biggest mistake we can make today is to jump to conclusions. yes, we saw images and statements, but the real effort must be revealed by further investigation. and the same goes for the confrontations at the funeral. the obvious course would be a joint investigation by the israeli and palestinian authorities, possibly with the involvement of foreign experts. how strange that the palestinian authorities reject such an investigation and have already drawn their conclusions. israel has been hit by a wave of attacks recently. it is understandable that israel is looking for suspects. footage of the confrontation shows an exchange of fire between the israeli army and armed palestinians in a cluttered urban area. the risks to innocent bystanders are high in this area. this is without prejudice to the fact that the killing of journalists in the course of their work should be strongly condemned by anyone. but leave the answer to the question of guilt to independent investigation and not to emotions or prejudice.
madam president, commissioner, council, the annual rule of law report is vital to preventing and combating rule of law violations, but only if it is followed by concrete actions. that was the right conclusion of the rapporteur. the polish government has crossed all the lines. judges and journalists are muzzled. citizens cannot exercise their rights. but the commission and council failed to act and become even more silent. and we lack clarity about the actions against hungary. madam president, the current war in europe is between autocracy and democracy. these were also your words, mr reynders. it’s not an equal fight. if we want democracy and rule of law to win, we must be more firm and more persistent. and the rule of law report also aims that we act timely upon backsliding countries. and greece is one of them. commissioner, please act upon the pushbacks, and the criminalisation of journalists and ngos rescuing migrants and defending their rights. impunity paves the way for autocracy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the people of north macedonia are being let down. they are waiting now for over ten years for the accession talks to start, while having fulfilled the conditions. until now, the citizens supported brave pro—eu leaders. but times are changing due to the eu’s failure and in a few years’ time, the trust of macedonian citizens in the eu has decreased to less than 15%. this must be a wake—up call to the eu, and especially bulgaria, that we must live up to our promises now. putin’s aggression in ukraine rings another alarm bell. russian influence is still rising at our doorstep in the western balkans. we can make democracy win from autocracy if we practice what we preach. this moment may be the last opportunity, so i urge the council: no further delays.
madam president, commissioner, after years of hard work and an international agreement, a minimum tax is right before our eyes, but we cannot grasp it yet. because just when solidarity is key, the polish government blocks us, blocks us from earning eur 60 billion extra each and every year. because morawiecki doesn’t care about europe; he doesn’t care about ending tax avoidance by multinationals; he doesn’t even care about his citizens who will gain eur 2 billion each year from a minimum tax. he only cares about his competences and his power, and he uses his veto in a desperate attempt to get free rein from brussels – exchanging his ‘yes’ for a minimum tax for us turning a blind eye while he dismisses judges that don’t follow his course and his will. this is not how the eu works. we don’t bargain with our values. morawiecki, your citizens want a minimum tax; your most important allies, including the us, want a minimum tax; and this parliament wants a minimum tax. thank you, aurore lalucq, for a great and excellent report. let’s get on with the job.
madam president, commissioner, we have an international agreement to ensure a basic minimum tax for multinationals which is on the right track. the european commission and the european parliament have fulfilled their obligations; the european council's turn is to overcome any suspensions and bargains and move in the right direction. he has to do it to send the right message. the high rate of inflation has led most european union countries, greece for example, to dramatically increase consumption taxes, which are particularly harsh on low-income earners. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted by the introduction of new taxes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax burden on the richest people in the community is fairer and more effective. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
the fact that we have reached agreement within the oecd on a global minimum tax rate for multinationals is a good thing. this is a way of preventing tax evasion, and that is also an important point for us. what i am concerned about is the generous delegation of powers to the commission in the report as it stands. in this way we give the commission a lot of room for manoeuvre in the field of taxation and a very broad mandate, and we undermine the position of the member states, whereas taxation is really a competence of the member states and should remain so. i also regret that no impact assessment has been carried out. this is because it is not clear how the proposal will work out in practice. it is important that we stick as close as possible to the global agreements in order to create a real level playing field. only then can we really stop tax evasion.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear ukraine, mps, we have all seen the horrific images coming from ukraine, and still today reports are coming in of widespread executions, rape and torture by the russian army. it is our duty to help the victims of putin’s aggression and bring those responsible to justice. a joint investigation team was established by lithuania, poland and ukraine to investigate war crimes in ukraine, and it was joined for the first time ever by the international criminal court in the hague. we will vote today on an extended mandate for eurojust that will allow it to coordinate and support such efforts even better, and we will support also the commission and the commissioner in their efforts. but the time to collect and safely store the daily terabytes of evidence is now, and more can be done. first, we should channel and coordinate efforts of all the parties involved, and to avoid duplication, the jit should be at the centre of this coordination. second, more member states should join the joint investigation team to improve the collection of evidence. finally, we should make available more forensic and digital experts to the icc to support its efforts on the ground. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the renew group. – madam chair, commissioner, dear colleagues, first of all, i would like to thank, of course, mr sánchez amor, the rapporteur, for all his efforts for this important report, and, of course, also those who were closely involved. well, madam chair, my visit to turkey a few weeks ago made it perfectly clear that the coming year will become a turbulent one in the eu–turkey relations. the turkish reluctance to agree on finland’s and sweden’s nato applications is just a starter. more issues will arise as we come closer to the turkish elections in summer next year. my main message is to remain calm. too much is at stake – migration, security, the economy. the eu and turkey are important partners. but we also have to be firm and crystal clear: there are red lines. one would be unreasonably obstructing finland’s and sweden’s nato applications. we expect turkey, as a long-standing and valued nato partner, to engage constructively. another is that turkey should not become a safe haven for russian capital and assets, thereby undermining eu sanctions. this would be simply unacceptable to the eu. let this be a friendly warning to our friends in turkey.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, madam minister, dear colleagues, this week the parliament can make history by supporting the cbam proposal. we will extend our carbon pricing system to producers outside the eu because that’s what we are discussing today. after months of hard work we found compromises that were not easy to find, but i think will be supported by different majorities in this house. let me first start by thanking my team, our advisors and the secretariat of the parliament. for our european climate ambitions cbam is a crucial part of fit for 55. it is the only tool we have to incentivise global climate action. and it’s historic because we are in fact extending our own emission trading system, our own co2 legislation, to the rest of the world. and the positive effects will be twofold. first, we incentivise our trading partners to take climate action seriously. and second, we are levelling the playing field and apply the same co2 price for imported products as we do for our own european producers. and thanks to this level playing field, we can finally phase out our current carbon leakage measures – the so-called free allowances. because they are preventing us from truly applying the polluter—pays principle. and the compromise we have is a very reasonable compromise. it balances between the starting date of cbam and the phasing—out date of the free allowances. it covers the right sectors and emissions. some want us to have a cbam and keep the free allowances. and i can tell you, my friends, you cannot have your cake, eat it too, and get the cherry on top. it frustrates me that at the same time, these people pretend to fight for the cause of the climate law. i take the climate law very seriously, so let’s not make laws knowing we will break them. so how do i see the future of europe, or how do you see the future of european industry? because that’s the most fundamental question we should ask ourselves. what do we envision the industry will look like in one or two decades? cbam creates a level playing field and helps us preserve jobs. we need to stop our fossil fuel addiction. if the current ukraine crisis did not make us aware of this, then what will? and ‘business as usual’ will become more and more costly. the price of doing nothing will be unbearable. we need to start producing in a clean and sustainable way. let’s not lose our global advantage. and it’s very tempting to listen to lobbyists, and it’s hard to counter their arguments because the fit for 55 package is very complicated. and while their ceos tell you that they are in favour of all the climate action, their representatives, their lobby machine demands the exact opposite. and only taking current interests into consideration makes you blind for the future. because i see many front runners in the eu that are willing to scale up to make sure that we find the crucial elements to decarbonise and keep our leading position, our competitiveness compared to the rest of the world. and these voices are not always heard, not always heard in this parliament, because they do not have the capacity to lobby as many other big companies have. and our task as parliament is to listen to these voices of the future, because in a couple of decades, we can decarbonise our industry, be state—of—the—art and leading clean production worldwide. that’s what i envision if we make the right choices this week. not only supporting industry that needs heavy subsidy to survive. and the front runners are popping up all over the world. we are not leading in every sector. there are sectors outside the eu that produce with a lower footprint. and one of my key motivations as a social democrat in supporting the green deal is that i see we can create new jobs and that we can decarbonise. we can lead the world in fulfilling the paris agreement with more than just words. companies will determine at one point if they stay in the eu or not – not on the basis of the co2 price, but whether we have enough green molecules, whether our electricity grid is strong and green enough for them to decarbonise. we see this already happening. you only have to zoom in to see it. and if it comes to free allowances, we are using hundreds of billions of public money to continue investing in fossils. unconditioned free allowances are not working the way they should. they are not helping us decarbonise. we need to redirect investment to the right companies that help us thrive and win the global race of decarbonisation. the train of decarbonisation is running and the question is, are we going to catch the train, or are you going to leave that bus? the vote is tomorrow. so we have one day left. maybe instead of reading emails of lobbyists, it is time to listen to our children and grandchildren and the voices of young generations. it is time for the european parliament to deliver what is needed for the climate law and for future generations.
rapporteur. – mr president, i will be a bit shorter than i was this morning to compensate for the time, of course, that i took this morning. i think all the arguments are on the table. we know where we stand. the real topic of debate is, are we going to deliver on the climate law? we need a parliament that pushes for ambition because we know it will not come from the council. it is unacceptable that we are risking having a package coming from parliament that is less ambitious than the european commission proposal and does not fulfil our obligations defined in the climate law – because that’s what’s at stake today. so don’t ask whether we take into account what some industry can accept, but whether the efforts of industry to decarbonise are acceptable for society. that’s the question of today, and that’s the question we need to answer.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, in order to make the co2 reduction plans succeed, three points are necessary: - fair distribution among the member states; - flexibility in the way it is drafted, so that countries can choose the most cost-effective approach; - and realistic objectives. unfortunately, the esr and lulucf plans do not meet any of these conditions: - the netherlands has to reduce by 48%, while a country like latvia has to do only 17%. such differences, mr commissioner, cannot be explained to the citizen. - the proposed flexibility mechanisms were not unkind, but are now being severely restricted by the environment committee. and the goals are and remain overambitious. i think it is very unwise for parliament to go so far as to introduce an additional reduction obligation of 50 megatons for carbon farming. to give carbon farming a chance, you have to stay away from additional commitments, but you have to focus on a good reward. agriculture deserves better, especially in these times of global concern about food shortages.
mr president, commissioner, council. we have been discussing the whole day that we need to make sure that the climate law targets will be achieved by the position of parliament. i think that every sector needs to contribute its fair share to the eu climate effort if we want to reach the paris climate agreement and climate law targets, and it’s the same i think for land—use change and the forestry sector. i am very happy that i can pronounce it now. i do believe that natural—based solutions are a key part of the fit for 55 package. i think the compromise we have on the table is well—balanced. i think it’s good not to include too much flexibility when it comes to agriculture, because there’s a lot of insecurity when measuring and capturing the co2 in these natural—based solutions. then there is co2 and cars. the key word here is ‘lobby’, and the lobby machine was working really hard in this house. i never thought that the 2035 phasing—out of the combustion engine would be at risk, because i thought that’s like the minimum we should get. i mean, that’s the position of the council, and we should always push for more ambition. i talked to industry and industry told me ‘well, mohammed, it is possible, but then we need more alternative fuel infrastructure. that’s what’s lacking now’. then i’m thinking that’s the exact same lobby that years ago, when the commission proposed an ambitious alternative fuel infrastructure directive – now we’re talking about a regulation – well they lobbied it so it was decreased ambition. now they say we cannot go forward due to the lack of infrastructure. there you have it. there’s always an excuse not to go forward. if you work and if you talk about real jobs, the future of the electric car is the future of the car industry in the eu, including the batteries. that’s what’s at stake tomorrow. i hope we conscientiously decide to vote in favour of the changes, to vote in favour of the climate law.
president, mr timmermans, fit for 55 is the largest package of climate legislation ever. even more energy taxes, a climate fund of 72 billion euros and - thanks to the vvd - a ban on the combustion engine. last year i called this package an irresponsible experiment with our economy. now, that's been compounded by the financial blow of the lockdowns and the war in ukraine. inflation is in double digits. the purchasing power is decreasing day by day. the european commission has no regard for citizens and businesses and is throwing an avalanche of expensive climate regulations at them. the cost, according to science, is 5 000 billion euros. the result? only four thousandth of a degree less warming. so there is no measurable result for the climate, mr timmermans. but people's lives are changing dramatically and becoming unaffordable for many. it is time for reflection and realistic policy. if we put people in the cold, the climate will be the last thing they care about. restore purchasing power and draw a line through this package.
madam president, court of justice ruling on the retirement ages of judges: not implemented. court of justice ruling on a disciplinary chamber: not implemented. court of justice ruling on a disciplinary regime for judges: not implemented. court of justice ruling on the independence of judges: not implemented. european court of human rights judgment on the right to a fair trial: not implemented. president, last year you spoke the following words in our house, and i quote: ‘our values are guaranteed by our legal order as safeguarded by the judgments of the european court of justice and we make sure that they are respected and we will never waver in that determination’. but by transferring eur 36 million to the polish government, you will undermine the polish rule of law and the european legal order, but also our confidence in your capacity as guardian of the treaties. please do not let this happen.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, president von der leyen, honourable members, while the war in ukraine carries on, our european unity becomes even more important. it becomes more important but also more difficult. even though the real suffering occurs on our eastern border, we too feel the impact of war. the outcome of the european council shows the european union can still deliver. thank you for your leadership, dear charles, for securing the sixth package despite the behaviour of some. nevertheless, we can and must do more. president putin bets that our willingness to increase costs on his regime will reduce. and let’s prove him wrong and let’s show him we mean it when we say freedom must overcome tyranny. let us prepare for winter by increasing our energy security and investing in the green transition. let us continue and step up our military aid so that ukraine has a chance to determine the outcome on the battlefield. getting produce food out of ukraine will stop putin using famine as a weapon, which could also lead to migration crises here in europe. putin’s cynical blockade of ukraine’s ports shows his total disregard for the global community; we must all speak out. our partners must also deliver, and we welcome egypt’s refusal of russia’s stolen ukrainian wheat. dear presidents, we must be clear with our global partners, as the us have been, that they must reject russia’s plundered commodities, or face diplomatic consequences. finally, colleagues, there can be no impunity for war crimes. renew europe welcomes the council’s conclusions; supporting the icc and the establishment of a joint investigation team (jit) coordinated by eurojust. and i repeat my call for more member states to join the jit, to improve the collection of evidence. coordination is the cure to duplication. duplication can be painful for victims, who have to relive their tragedies to investigators. and it will ensure the aggressors are held to account, which must remain the ambition of this house and the member states.
rapporteur. – madam president, for the cbam chahim report, i would like to ask on, based on rule 200, the referral back to the committee, and that we will not vote today.
rapporteur. – yes, yes.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear commissioner, i would like to congratulate you on a positive partnership agreement reached with three partner countries to regulate labour migration. it shows that it is possible to develop equal partnerships that are mutually beneficial, which are often, to be honest, really missing. most of the times we see that the eu is using negative incentives ‘less for less’ to force third countries to strengthen border controls and return migrants. however, the regulation of labour migration is the best way to combat irregular migration, the exploitation of migrants and unfair competition. i would only like to urge you to go beyond circular migration. ensuring that migrants have strong rights from the beginning is not only key to their integration, but also to preventing exploitation. if we create more mobility rights, you can be sure that migrants will return regularly to their countries and invest there, just like we see with the free movement within the eu. furthermore, it’s important that the single permit directive becomes a basis for strong rights for all migrants residing in the eu, and that intra—eu mobility will be a vital element for the long—term residents residing within the eu. in this way, they can come closer to the position of eu citizens. we welcome all four proposals, as they have the potential to boost migrants’ rights, mobility and integration. we hope that this positive approach will lead to a more rational approach towards migration, which we desperately need.
president, the european commission wants more immigration. it will use 'talent partnerships' to recruit low-skilled migrant workers in north africa and the middle east. that's a very bad idea for a lot of reasons. no country has asked the eu for more immigration. they're just asking for less immigration. if we want to fight illegal immigration, we don't solve the problem by calling it "legal". and no, labour migration is not going to solve the problem of ageing either: that's the reasoning of a pyramid scheme. we would need more immigrants every time, at the expense of our identity, our economy and our nature. do europeans like this? of course you didn't. even the commission admits that stating actual numbers of migrants is 'political suicide'. low-skilled immigrants from the middle east and north africa perform the worst statistically. in no european country is the population waiting for this. i suspect that the commission does not dare call a referendum on this proposal. then spare us this unhealthy plan.
the proposal for a right of initiative for the european parliament is yet another attempt to make the eu a superstate, on the grounds that this parliament is the only directly elected eu institution. the council of ministers is not a political body, but a political body, and it is not a political body. so the question is not: are you for or against a strengthening of democracy? the question is: how do we divide power in europe? if you are in favour of a superstate, you should centralize as much power as possible and therefore also the right of initiative here in the european parliament. but if you are in favour of a europe of cooperating member states, you are investing in democratic governance through the council and the national parliaments. and i'm going with conviction for the latter. we must not be concerned with power, but with the question: how can we best serve society?
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the renew group, on the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc). and now their ultra-conservative supreme court seems to be going along with it. the right to abortion is not taken for granted here in europe either. in italy, on average, 70% of doctors refuse to assist women in abortions. in conservative regions, this can be as high as 87%. in croatia, although it is legal, it is not affordable and therefore not accessible. the cost of an operation can be as high as 400 euros. in germany, a doctor is not allowed to give public information about abortion, so they cannot give good and reliable information. in the netherlands, in 2022, you will still be called names and intimidated on the way to the clinic. in poland, women are dying because of the de facto ban on abortion rights, and in malta it is completely banned. it's been enough, but it's really been enough. and that's why my call today is: let us amend the european treaties and enshrine the right to abortion in our union. we must not give these fundamentalists an inch to further their destructive anti-women agenda. the right to abortion is a human right and we must now reflect this in the european treaties.
mr. president, millions of americans are in danger of losing their right to abortion. and let's say it again: a ban on abortion does not lead to fewer abortions, but only to more unsafe abortions. but what i'm noticing is that i'm not even surprised anymore. angry, angry, that's who i am. but no longer surprised, because time and time again we see that the global ultraconservative agenda, funded by big money donors, wants to stop any step towards equality and reverse all the progress that has been fought for. they propagate that women and anyone who they believe is different should be considered inferior and should not have equal rights. but we're not gonna let that happen. because the harder they try, the louder we stand up for our rights. starting with our sexual and reproductive rights, including abortion. boss in his own belly. let not these historic words become history. - thank you. - thank you.
madam president, i wonder what year it is now. how far back in history do some people here want to take us? human rights, women’s rights, even girls’ rights. i think roe v. wade is not only a concern inside the us, and as we talk here, the title is about ‘global threats’ to a person’s rights. so i think we need to work here for every woman in the world. we need to have free, safe, legal abortion, and when life is mentioned here, we should look at those women who lose their lives without a safe, legal and available abortion. so when we talk about women’s rights, their right to their body, their right to decide on pregnancy, it is not a man to decide it. it is a right that we have to prevail. so i conclude, i stand here with all the women in the world, with you, women in poland, women in malta, women in the usa. these are our rights.
mr president, your predecessor in the chair called this a lively debate. i have to say that i find this debate particularly sad. i hear a lot about women's rights, but i hardly hear anything about the fragile unborn life. even a spokesman for the epp called abortion a human right. the commission also called abortion a human right. and so did the council. how can we say that ? because no matter how you look at it, abortion is the termination of life. a little human with a beating heart. that life is terminated. it's a world of difference to call that a human right, isn't it? i have one specific question to put to the commission. we all know that in countries where prenatal screening is practiced, very few children are born with down syndrome. my question is: how do you feel about that? thank you, sir. (the president declared the motion for a resolution adopted)
the 'blue card' reaction. thank you. yes, i have a question for mr ruissen. we happen to be from the same region and a few years ago they saw the need to set up a single room there. this is because there are so many people who are afraid to have an abortion, but ultimately cannot keep the child, for financial or other reasons. and i wonder how you see the protection of a child after birth when that child has no real opportunity in society.
blue card reply. i think it's our dear duty to protect all children. especially kids we're worried about. i also think we need to invest a lot more in actually providing help to women and girls who are unwanted pregnant. because i realize very well that women and girls are in difficult situations, but we don't help them by offering them an abortion. we help them by standing shoulder to shoulder and offering them help. even in the most difficult phase of their lives. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the plight of the uighurs in xinjiang province sheds a stark light on a china where civil liberties, including religious ones, remain severely restricted. in addition to the fact that only official religions have citizenship rights, their worship is restricted to a so-called "normal" practice, without this concept being defined. the persecution of uighur muslims, as well as of christians in xinjiang, is part of a strategy of sinisation to place all faiths under the ruthless tutelage of the communist party. one million members of ethnic minorities, mainly muslims, including uighurs, are reportedly being detained. at the same time, christians are subjected to the worst forms of bullying, as exemplified by the scandalous arrest of a 90-year-old cardinal. our recent debate on forced organ harvesting has also highlighted one of the most sordid aspects of this systematic abuse. so we must be clear about the true nature of the chinese regime, beyond its cleverly distilled propaganda to the rest of the world.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to propose: you don't drink alcohol or study religious scriptures, or you turn your phone off regularly. as a uighur in xinjiang, you're quickly labeled unreliable, with all the consequences that come with it. you will be taken to a trusted place - read: concentration camp - sent to be re-educated under the watch of heavily armed police. the leaked police documents show the chilling reality of systematic oppression faced by millions of uighurs. and they also show that this is happening under the watchful and consenting eye of the highest political leadership in beijing. president xi called for not politicizing the issue in his conversation with un commissioner bachelet during her recent disappointing visit to the region. however, the mounting evidence of chinese wrongdoing in xinjiang requires a strong european response, including individual and economic sanctions against all persons and institutions complicit in these grave crimes. thank you, sir.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you again for your remarks and for supporting the regulation. with this new instrument, the union is taking an important step. the ipi regulation will help the eu to ensure reciprocal access in international public procurement markets to the benefit of our businesses and of workers. it will strengthen the eu’s response in cases where trading partners adopt protectionist policies, including national preference in awarding public contracts. as a consequence, the eu will be better equipped to improve their leverage in international negotiations. the ipi will help the commission to conclude ambitious public procurement chapters as part of our wider trade agreements with global partners.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the debate and the debate this evening. it looks as if we will then have a large majority in the vote tomorrow. we have had this debate for ten years, and it has been brought up - i think it was mrs rinzema and other colleagues - that a lot has happened in the last ten years. and we have actually seen -- a country was mentioned by several colleagues, namely china -- because we have seen in the last decade that china has not opened up more. we also saw in the negotiations on the investment agreement that was concluded that china was not ready to open up. and that is why i hope that when this instrument receives a majority in this house tomorrow, mr dombrovskis, that you will also use this instrument, that the commission will not leave this new possibility in the closet, but that you will, please, openly approach our trading partners, that you will, please, openly promote the opening up of the markets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and in that spirit, i hope that we will have some success in the next few years. and in case we need to do some follow-up work, we've already provided for the revision clause, so that in case of doubt, we can also double-check. i would like to thank you very much for the debate and i would be very pleased if we could see some results in this area soon.
i also thank the colleagues who took part in the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 9 june 2022.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the massacre of christians in nigeria (2022/2712 (rsp)).
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, nigeria is africa’s largest economy and most populated country, with a roughly equal—sized christian and muslim population. one in six africans is a nigerian. almost all opportunities and challenges in africa are found in nigeria. nigeria matters, and by the same token, how we speak and debate about nigeria matters too. on sunday, gunmen brutally attacked and killed scores of people during a church service in owo, ondo state in south—west nigeria. not a usual site for such attacks, which until now, have predominantly taken place in the north. we quickly condemned this attack and we condemn violence in all its forms, independently of religious belief and/or ethnicity. not long before, another incident in nigeria saw a woman brutally murdered by her peers after she was accused of blasphemy. the frequency and scale of violence in nigeria is staggering. since 2020, the security situation has rapidly deteriorated. these threats are complex and widespread: long-standing islamist insurgency, banditry and kidnappings in the north, renewed separatist tensions and criminality in the south. however, as violence in nigeria is indiscriminate, it targets christians and muslims alike, with the aim of creating chaos whenever possible with a view to dividing society. the root causes of the insecurity that prevails in nigeria are not predominantly rooted in religion. while some of the violence may indeed be targeted on a religious basis, frequent acts of violence in nigeria are mainly due to the underlying circumstances beyond faith, such as competition for scarce resources, endemic poverty and inequality, poor education and access to basic services, youth unemployment, ethnic grievances and a general feeling of exclusion. this is why the eu has promoted an integrated approach towards peace in nigeria, linking political, security, humanitarian and development issues. the eu has addressed and continues to address these issues by being deeply involved as a political actor, by providing legal assistance to human rights cases through development cooperation, and through an ongoing political and human rights dialogue. we have contributed to building an institutional framework to deal with issues such as impunity, particularly focus on the justice sector and building networks of human rights organisations. further, the eu continues to provide humanitarian assistance towards governance and democracy building, mediation, reintegration, fighting the root causes of conflict and promoting intercultural and religious dialogue.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. we who are sitting here now, are standing. we know what happened in the town of owo, nigeria. first of all, i must say, your honor, that the attack on the pentecost mass was not a coincidence, the timing was against the christian faithful. the mass murder cannot be explained simply by decades of conflict between farmers and nomadic herders. after i released my statement about the attack, my local friends immediately appealed to the public for help. i learned through a volunteer doctor in the area, dr. fodor reka, that the onitsha archdiocese hospital in the neighboring state had offered fifty beds for the injured. the churches have been the first responders, but the relief effort is facing serious obstacles. incidentally, the price of gasoline in nigeria, a country rich in crude oil, has doubled as a result of the war in ukraine. that means that the wounded, the insulin cooling, the cd equipment can't be operated in the hospital. although the nigerian central government is doing its best to curb terrorism, it has failed to guarantee the safety of the country's christian and other religious minorities for decades. the latest attack was carried out in what is now a peaceful southwestern part of nigeria. this is a sign of a deteriorating security situation that undermines the need for our development efforts. we need to take effective action alongside solidarity. we must end the passive discrimination caused by indifference here, in this house. we must do something so that the european parliament, after so many years, can take action against mass persecution. you are the ones who suffer and ask for our support. there was a newspaper article this morning, very simple, where we read the cry for help from the nigerian catholic civil council. we are really tired of the words, we want the leaders to take urgent action against the perpetrators of evil acts. we share responsibility.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, a few weeks ago the stoning and burning of the body of student deborah samuel was not enough to wake this parliament from its slumber. it is sad to say that it took the slaughter of 50 faithful, including many, many children, for this house to accept our request to hold a debate on the daily tragedy of christians in nigeria. victims who are adding to the greatest genocide taking place in the world, the one against christians, which in recent years has seen tens of thousands of innocent people die in nigeria alone because of their faith. now some, even you, madam vice president, would like to blame it on territorial disputes, social inequalities and climate change, but the truth is that christians in nigeria are being slaughtered because they believe in christ, because their presence is a factor of social and cultural development that bothers too many. that's why first the historical islamist groups and now the fulani tribal militias want to annihilate them. the president of the nigerian bishops' conference has called on the impotent government of president buhari to take responsibility for safeguarding the lives and property of its citizens. the european union, which is giving hundreds of millions of euros to nigeria, must also demand in return that its government vigorously defend religious freedom, which is a fundamental human right, as well as many other rights on which the eu institutions devote rivers of ink and rhetoric every day, while we are not even able to devote the necessary energy to religious freedom to appoint a special envoy, which we have been waiting for too long and which the commission has not yet appointed.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. nigeria is one of the countries most affected by christian persecution. in this country, the number of christians killed for their faith rose by 290% between 2020 and 2021, to 3,530 people. this will unfortunately continue in 2022 with the barbaric massacre at the temple in oni. my colleagues! the number of refugees from the region exceeds 2.5 million. we have to act. we must not only be concerned about the protection of christian values and christianity itself within europe, but we must also do all we can to help our christian brothers who are suffering persecution on other continents. hungary immediately proposed a grant of huf 10 million to the affected diocese in nigeria. i am confident that the other member states and the european union itself will act swiftly.
madam president, dear colleagues, i am abhorred by the massacre of more than 50 innocent men, women and children during the pentecost sunday celebrations. however, we cannot simply express our concerns over such horrific acts. from xinjiang, syria to nigeria, the state of religious freedom around the world is rapidly deteriorating, and christians, as well as many other religious groups, are today facing persecution and even genocide. what is happening in nigeria and elsewhere around the world is also our responsibility. for example, our financial centres are used by corrupt leaders, who ignore the security and well-being of their citizens and suppress their rights and dignity. we close our eyes to human rights abuses for the sake of profit. we ignore the plight of the suffering. this must change. it is time the european union finally pay attention to the terrible state of the freedom of religion around the world. that’s why the appointment of a new eu special envoy is essential to stand up for the persecuted and voiceless globally.
madam president, commissioner, in nigeria the wave of violence is not stopping. in 2021, more than 2,600 civilians were killed, an increase of more than 250% compared to 2020. this insecurity is generally perceived as being caused by the threat posed by boko haram. however, such a conception underestimates the complexity and multifaceted nature of the security challenges in the country. in addition to the insecurity generated by boko haram in northeast nigeria, criminal gangs in northwest nigeria, taking advantage of a security vacuum, have been responsible for a wave of kidnappings for ransom, which have become a commercial resource for criminal gangs that also operate in the same way in the gulf of guinea. add to this the fact that the land available for grazing in nigeria's central belt declined by more than 38% between 1975 and 2013, while the land devoted to agriculture almost doubled. these dynamics have been generated by climate change, land exclusion policies and population growth. and all this leads to conflict between two communities: the farmers and the herders. often this is summed up in ethnic or religious conflict. as we can see, the diversity of security threats in nigeria requires a set of innovative, context-specific solutions, and implies understanding the local dynamics of each of the threats and integrating them into a multidimensional security strategy. the shortcuts that lead us to read nigeria with our reading grids lead us to make the wrong statements and give the wrong answers.
mr brudziński, i would avoid insulting people who are members of a religion, because it is not correct to speak generically about muslims. i therefore invite you to speak correctly about the matters we are discussing.
madam president, i would like to thank our colleague, xavier bellamy, who said that we must speak out about all the crimes committed against christians. i will now continue in czech. christians are actually the most widely practiced religious group in the world. why? i've been to church, i've been to church, i've been to church. what we are seeing in nigeria is very dangerous because nigeria is becoming a country where christians are actually the most persecuted in the north, where muslims are often the most persecuted. this latest crime just happened in southwest nigeria. we therefore call on the european commission and the european external action service to act together with the nigerian government, which must protect christians. we also have big business interests, business companies, that should stand up against this violence.
president, the brutal attack on a church in south-western nigeria has shocked the world. unfortunately, this attack is not on its own. christians in nigeria have faced attacks, kidnappings and terrorism by radical islamic groups for decades. and in the meantime, the nigerian government is just letting it happen. there is no prosecution or very little. meanwhile, the international community is patiently watching. and yet, on a night like this, the european commission also comes out with vague, obfuscating statements. the commission has been discussing for two and a half years whether there should be a special envoy for religious freedom. mrs von der leyen promised me in writing at the end of last year that this special envoy would be appointed, but that has still not happened. my question to the commissioner is: will you be keeping quiet again tonight? you've heard the calls from a lot of colleagues. where is the eu's envoy for religious freedom? i want an answer from you tonight. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, today, millions of people globally go to work facing inhumane conditions to produce products we all enjoy. even in this house, many of us are using or wearing goods made by forced labour without us even realising it. and therefore the new instrument to ban products made by forced labour from our markets should be an instrument with which we can truly act. and in its design, we must ensure that this new legislation is wto compatible. also to make sure that countries comply to the international commitments and it must be able to limit products from our market made through forced labour when we as eu have clear evidence that this is the case. we must ensure it complements existing or upcoming eu legislation, for example due diligence, and as a union that respects and promotes universal values globally, we need to ensure that forced labour goods do not enter our market, because this is about human rights. this is about credible trade policies. this is about our credibility, making sure that our partners, our customers trust us. and it is time we put a serious halt to the infringements of basic human rights. and it means that if we have clear evidence, if we have clear signs that these products are not ok, that these products are not ethical, then we need to do something about it. and i call upon the commission to present us a legislative proposal no later than september this year. we have several experiences now that we are waiting for very important and needed legislation. and like i said, this is about human rights. please come with a proposal no later than september.
rapporteur. – mr president, so if the colleagues would wait, you know, i have to refer back something. and we know what happened two weeks ago! so first of all, thanks everyone for the hard work in the last year, and especially also the last two weeks. i think the result is well-balanced and you’ve seen the support in this house. it gives us a very good starting point in the negotiations with the council. but mr president, i need to ask for referral back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations under rule 59(4).
mr president, mr vice-president, the russian aggression has increased the urgency to pull our neighbouring countries closer to us, to protect them against destructive influence and help them in building democratic and free countries. and the candidate status amplifies our cooperation, if combined with active support. we applaud this step towards ukraine and moldova but, at the same time, we need really urgently to give perspective to the citizens of the western balkans. north macedonia and albania are waiting too long, having fulfilled all the criteria and trust in the eu is now really at stake. kosovo deserves visa liberalisation and the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina need a credible promise that they will get candidate status if their political leaders are willing to show commitment and take the necessary steps. we need to offer perspective now. this is needed for geopolitical unity, but also desperately needed to offer the citizens the safeguards of security, economic prospects and european values.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, as i have said multiple times, we must base our relations on an equal partnership and the report we discuss today finally confirms our renewed approach to trade relations with africa. and by engaging with africa on this basis, we can ensure the sustainable development of our continent. this means we must invest in africa, both financially and in human capital; investing in promising new economic initiatives such as digital and green initiatives, investing in young change-makers, in women and in the african diaspora in the eu. the current uncertain situation regarding food security underlines another important element of our relationship. as the war in ukraine demonstrates, food security on the continent is a very urgent question we must answer. and together with our african partners, we must invest in the agricultural sector on the continent to ensure food security. there are a lot of opportunities – a lot of opportunities – to work on an equal partnership, so let’s do so.
how many times have i stood here and said that the right to safe and legal abortion is a fundamental right and a necessary condition for women's self-determination, their right to health and their bodily integrity? if you ask me: far too often. time and time again, we have extremists who have the unhealthy need to meddle with women's bodies, who want to go back in time, who want women to go back to that coat hanger. the extremists in europe have gathered themselves into the so-called agenda europe, where they are laying out their destructive plans and are already carrying them out. - right here. consider the de facto ban on abortion in poland. think of the anti-lgbt legislation in hungary. these are plans against women, against the lgbt+ community and against human rights. this is unacceptable. we must make that impossible and that is why we are going to have to enshrine the right to abortion in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. because these are extremists, from the united states to the european parliament, and they have no place here, no place in our fundamental rights.
madam president, madam commissioner for equality, today is the fourth of july. today marks the 246th anniversary of the united states declaration of independence and that is why it is your national holiday. it is the mythical founding document of a democracy which today is wounded, fractured and exposed to serious setbacks. and yes, it is sad that these setbacks are being imposed by an archaic supreme court, backed by the ultra-conservative right as never before, as a result of the appointments imposed by president bush. and there is nothing this european parliament can do about the damage that this is doing to the united states. but this european parliament can and must stress that free equality, free development of the personality, sexual and reproductive rights and therefore the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy are fundamental rights in the european union, which the european union and all its member states must respect. and, in this field, we cannot take a single step back. the european parliament must therefore focus on calling on those states which do not yet recognise voluntary termination of pregnancy to do so, because it is a violation of a fundamental right protected by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
the abolition of the national right to abortion in the united states has also caused a great deal of stir in europe. pro-life organizations can expect to see an increase in interest. young people are found to be significantly more critical of abortion than their parents. i find all of that very encouraging. the art now is to conduct the necessary debate here in europe in a dignified manner. we are not doing this by excluding organisations from parliament, as some here are advocating. those are tactics they use in dictatorships like china and north korea. we should stay away from that. let's focus on providing the necessary assistance. help for mother and child. because abortion is not a solution and certainly not a human right. how wonderful would it be if in ten years we could say: the supreme court's decision has marked a turning point in european thinking on abortion. we have come to see again that all life is worthy of protection, including unborn life.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, the death and injury of migrants at the borders of melilla doesn’t need easy rhetoric, but honest self-reflection. access to an asylum procedure is the core of the refugee convention. and this is at stake at the fences at the spanish enclaves, where most migrants from sub-sahara cannot approach the border—crossing points to ask for asylum. spain begs morocco to keep them away, not caring if they are beaten up or dumped in the desert. and the eu strongly supports this practice, without any guarantee that migrants are being protected. the commissioner puts the blame on the smugglers, but sealing off the borders, not offering legal pathways, makes refugees dependent on smugglers. so who should we blame here? we must put eu values at the centre of border policies and migration deals, enforce access to asylum, condition funding to human rights compliance inside and outside the eu, monitor the human rights situation, and of course start offering legal pathways to refugees.
mr president, for 20 years, we have allowed big tech companies to grow almost unlimited under the guise of innovation. now these companies are so powerful that they're a threat to our society and our democracy. the algorithms of google and facebook show us what's bringing the most profit to their shareholders. they know everything about us, and they've found that serving up personalized hate and misinformation to us generates the most ad revenue because we stay on the platform longer, resulting in a more divided society. not just on the internet, but in health care and education, these tech companies are gaining more and more influence thanks to their money and data power. you can barely get away with using whatsapp or sending your child to a google school. and also, your fitbit data goes directly to google. this has got to stop. with the digital services act and the digital markets act, we are taking big steps towards a world that is not in the hands of big tech, but in the hands of citizens. we're finally getting a better handle on what's happening online and taking steps to slow down the megalomaniacal expansion of tech companies. as far as i'm concerned, this is just the beginning.
member of the commission. – madam president, this report on eu-india future trade and investment cooperation comes at a pivotal moment in eu-india relations. eu-india trade negotiations were formally relaunched in brussels on 17 june by eu executive vice-president dombrovskis and indian commerce minister goyal. they also launched separate negotiations on an investment agreement, and another on geographical indications. a first round of negotiations covering all three tracks already took place in new delhi last week, with two additional rounds to be held before the end of the year. furthermore, during her visit to india in april, commission president von der leyen agreed with prime minister modi to establish an eu-india trade and technology council. these separate yet complementary developments point at the intensification and deepening of the strategic partnership between the eu and india. in this context, the commission welcomes the solid and comprehensive report prepared by parliament. the commission is also grateful for the report’s support to its approach to eu-india trade and investment relations, particularly regarding the three strands of negotiations. the aim of the bilateral negotiations is to maximise the considerable trade and investment potential between the eu and india, which remains largely untapped. liberalising trade and investment will generate opportunities for growth and job creation, including in areas going beyond trade in goods, notably services, digital trade, intellectual property and public procurement. we also aim to contribute to securing our supply chains, promoting our values, protecting the climate, and to promote high environmental and labour standards. to this end, the commission seeks to negotiate ambitious and comprehensive agreements. the first round of talks took place on the basis of an eu negotiation text for 18 fta chapters, as well as texts for investment protection and geographical indications. all our state of the art, the trade texts, which will shortly be made public, cover the broad scope of issues sought by parliament. the commission also aims to negotiate ambitious and legally binding disciplines on trade and sustainable development. however, we have not yet shared a proposal for trade and sustainable development as we were waiting for the outcome of the trade and sustainable development review. we would expect a trade and sustainable development text to be discussed at the next round. on top of this, the investment protection agreement should significantly increase investor confidence on both sides. we are confident that this will lead to increases in foreign direct investment in both directions. the eu and india also share a similar approach when it comes to protecting geographical indications. once concluded, the geographical indications agreement will support rural communities and help preserve the cultural and culinary heritage of both sides. our recent contacts with india at all levels point at a more positive indian attitude towards trade liberalisation than in the past. this is confirmed by the recent conclusion by india of trade agreements with australia and the united arab emirates. this is also confirmed by india’s willingness to engage on long-standing market access issues in parallel with the trade negotiations, with the aim of solving some of them. therefore, conditions for a successful outcome are more favourable than in 2013, when we had to suspend the negotiations due to a gap of ambition between the two sides. nonetheless, we must be both constructive and realistic. these negotiations are a challenging endeavour which will require strong political leadership on both sides. yet we need to seize the moment. there is increased convergence and joint interest between the eu and india at the economic, strategic and geopolitical levels, and both sides have a clear interest in deepening their strategic partnership. so, in line with the european parliament’s report, the commission will work towards concluding trade, investment protection and geographical indication agreements that are ambitious and comprehensive. so your report will be a point of reference for the commission in its efforts. i thank you again for your support.
in writing. negotiations on future trade and investment cooperation have started and the union still faces problems in accessing the indian market in many sectors. the automotive sector and the medical device sector are still burdened by import restrictions. my country, poland, is a significant producer and exporter of tyres in the eu, including tyres for buses, trucks and vans which are sold to india. unfortunately, the need to obtain a licence on that market, certifying quality and compliance with safety standards, has reduced exports of this product by as much as 50%. only a small group of companies have received such licenses, unfortunately none from poland. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. the system is not transparent, the guidelines for obtaining a licence are still not available. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to fully benefit from the measures in force. my country is also concerned about the unclear legal regulations on the medical device market, as well as the ban on the import of refurbished medical devices. and we're also having difficulties here, like getting licensed, doing clinical trials. the eu countries are very discriminated against in this respect. in order to maintain the momentum needed to continue the negotiating talks, immediate solutions are needed, without putting the content of an agreement before the conclusion of an agreement.
india is an important strategic partner of the european union. not only on the political and economic level, but also on the commercial level, a good relationship with india is crucial to diversify our supply chains and increase our strategic autonomy. china's strong position in the region and the war in ukraine make building strong trade relations all the more important. the european parliament therefore supports the reopening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with india in a report adopted today by the plenary. but that future trade relationship must also be shaped in a sustainable and equitable way. as was the case with the free trade agreement with new zealand, which was struck down by the european commission last week, we expect strong, binding and enforceable agreements to be made with india on climate, sustainability and human and workers' rights. the elimination of child labour is also a priority for us. the green deal and the climate law have set the european union on a new path. that new way must also be translated into the way we trade with the rest of the world in the 21st century.
madam president, i want to address the human rights situation in zimbabwe. according to johns hopkins university, inflation in zimbabwe is over 400% – the highest in the world – and 63% of the population live below the poverty line. unfortunately, president emmerson mnangagwa is indistinguishable from his predecessor, president mugabe. added to economic mismanagement are his now endless assaults on civil society. the proposed public voluntary organisation (pvo) amendment bill is currently before the zimbabwe parliament and would criminalise ngos, designating them as high—risk or vulnerable to terrorist abuse. the un human rights council last week completed its voluntary periodic review, and zimbabwe has rejected criticisms of the pvo amendment bill by ireland and others. it has also not implemented any of the eu election observer mission recommendations. opposition leaders hope for a peaceful, inclusive and modern zimbabwe. the eu must send a clear message in opposition to this highly regressive legislation.
president, we all know that the islamic republic of iran is a safe haven for terrorists. the iranian regime is using its embassies and international terrorist groups to undermine our security in the west. we saw this for example in the planned attack on political opponents near paris, organised by the iranian diplomat assadollah assadi. he is currently being held by belgium, but the belgian government is now the first western state to organise an exchange between this convicted terrorist and the innocent iranian-swedish professor djalali through a law and a bilateral treaty. that is exactly the strategy of iran. they're holding dual nationals, like the professor, hostage to facilitate the return of terrorists to iran. the united states has rightly criticised this. the eu is, however, keeping silent about this belgian decision, which is a precedent for the eu. this is totally unacceptable to us.
president, the way the high representative speaks about israeli settlements is incorrect and careless. he talks about illegal occupation activities all the time. however, from the point of view of international law, this is only the case if the occupied territory belongs to another recognized state. the situation in crimea is clear: that's from ukraine. but to which country did the west bank belong before 1967? not to jordan, not to the ottoman empire, not to the british empire. as long as there is no solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict, there can be no question of a recognised palestinian state that would be occupied. the strange thing is that even for situations where the legal status is crystal clear, such as northern cyprus, the high representative does not use the term 'illegal occupation activities'. my call is: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. no one helped with that.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear rapporteur, dear commissioner, imagine going to work at zara. you enter the shop in the morning, pick up a tablet, put an earpiece in and, for hours on end, you are tracked and have an algorithm tell you exactly what you need to do. and if you don’t do it fast enough, because a customer asks you something, this might lead to not getting your contract renewed. it might sound futuristic, but this is already the reality for a growing group of workers. bosses are treating them like robots and new technologies allow them to constantly surveil them and micro-manage people, under huge time pressure. but constant monitoring also happens to office workers and civil servants. with the help of software, your boss can know exactly how many emails you send, how many keystrokes you make per hour, and even where your gaze is fixed. in a world like this, workers can’t thrive. the stress of being surveyed and the loss of autonomy leads to lower wellbeing of workers and impacts their mental health. we urgently need rules for the entire labour market to ban surveillance and constant monitoring of workers and regulate algorithmic management for all. and i’m happy to report calls for this. i’m now looking at the commission to take action and make our workplaces safer, healthier and happier again.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, prime minister, honourable members, we face a series of alarming challenges that deserve the attention of the solidarity of all of us. the unjust and uncalled for war of aggression raged by russia in ukraine is triggering new crises – an energy crisis, food shortages – and these two combined will lead to an economic and perhaps migration crisis. this continent needs to get ready for all of this, doing so while helping the ukrainians fight their good fight. it’s quite simple: mr putin must fail. therefore, we must stand by the ukrainian people with determination, and sanctions alone are not enough to ensure putin’s failure. ukraine needs our heavy weapons and here all of us have a duty to back our words with actions. there is one man responsible for the food crisis – that’s vladimir putin. food shortages risk many vulnerable adults and children. and they are also a risk of a migration crisis for europe. and i’m quite certain that a new migration crisis would seem very attractive to mr putin, but we cannot let him succeed. we need to finalise a new european migration and asylum pact. we need a strict and fair system for the whole union to work but we need the whole union to take its responsibility, and we need to do it now. we have waited for too long and the next migration crisis might be on our doorstep already. the council needs to move and this house needs to engage in pragmatic negotiating with them to reach a deal before the end of this year. i’m worried when i read some of the reports of violent deportations. yes, we must uphold eu law and yes, we must protect eu borders, and yes, we must ensure turkey abides by its obligations to us. but we say no to illegal pushbacks of any kind – in spain, in greece or anywhere else. mr prime minister, i hope you can agree with us in renew europe that the europe of today needs to be bold so we can address the cost of living crisis facing europeans. like the common solutions we found for the pandemic, innovative thinking is needed to address our energy challenges. we need to boost our economic credentials by signing the free trade deals that are frozen. the deal with new zealand last week shows us the way. protectionism is no antidote to inflation. by investing in the modernisation of our economies, by embracing competition, by improving our entrepreneurial and investment climate, we can continue to sail the ship of prosperity. let us be bold and fight back against global economic headwinds. and then, finally, we see that in many countries, even within the european union, the values and principles that breathe life into our democracies are under attack. and i will be frank, prime minister, as always. we are worried about the decline in press freedom and media pluralism in greece. the warning lights are flashing. greece now has the worst performance in the eu27 as far as media freedom is concerned. mr prime minister, i hope you agree with me that media freedom is central to our european way of life. renew europe has added a distinguished greek mep, mr georgios kyrtsos, to its ranks. he is sitting over there on the first row. our family expects the voice of its representative to be heard, according to european media rules and standards. we do not want to see another eu government leader slandering the free press because, as you know, it was socrates who said, ‘when the debate is over, slander becomes the tool of the loser’ and we are aware that some in your political family have set a bad example, but please, prime minister, don’t follow in their destructive footsteps. stop it, prime minister, and stop silencing mr kyrtsos and stop it now. hold the pride of the greek tradition of public debate alive and you will continue to find renew at your side, facing the crisis ahead together in unity.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i thank you and the commissioners. dear prime minister, welcome in our house and i also welcome the minister of european affairs. during the eurozone crisis, we have painfully witnessed in greece how citizens suffer if the eu fails to act in unity and solidarity, and citizens should never any more pay the price of a functioning monetary and economic union. greece should be able to count on the union to fully reap the benefits of the green transition. but we also count on greece to defend the fundaments of the union: a europe based on democracy, rule of law, media freedom and non-discrimination. a europe that respects fundamental rights, including human dignity and the right to apply for asylum. and i wonder is this europe as well, prime minister, if asylum seekers try to enter this europe through your country, their rights are brutally trampled? they are pushed into the turkish waters and land. migrants are even forced to push back other migrants and the border guards – masked men putting lives at risk – enjoy impunity. but those who save lives are convicted. and therefore, i ask you, mr mitsotakis, is this europe? you’re closing down the most humane camps and have forced asylum seekers to live in remote and closed hotspots. you lose thousands of asylum seekers from syria and afghanistan in a legal limbo, using the fiction that they could return to turkey, which they can’t. and the lucky refugees that do get a status have to survive on the streets. yet, those helping refugees are restricted and criminalised; those who speak up, including media, are silenced. but, prime minister, covering up evidence doesn’t help, because the reality is recorded and reported time and time again by all relevant bodies of the un, council of europe, by ombudsmen, ngos and investigative journalists. and european judges refuse to accept this reality as it violates eu asylum law. that, mr mitsotakis, is europe. and let me be clear: other member states have put greece in an unfair position. they breached the principle of solidarity by refusing a common responsibility for asylum seekers. we could be allies in combating these selfish policies and to have geopolitical answers to geopolitical conflicts. but sealing off the borders, deterring and pushing back refugees is not the european answer. and, instead of trying to demonstrate a shield for europe, i urge you to solve the many problems in your society. people are suffering from it: the 36.8% of young people unemployed; the high level of poverty; the increasing use of fossil fuel riding this global crisis, instead of investments in renewable energy. use the eu funds to create innovative green and social jobs to transform your country into an inclusive, modern and sustainable state. prime minister, we count on greece to honour the fundamental rights on which true european solidarity can be built, both for the greek citizens and for the refugees. because there is no europe left to protect or to defend if its core values are undermined.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. any alternative to nuclear power is a better one. even the highly inefficient wind turbines that beautify our landscapes are a better alternative to nuclear power. and very close to the austrian border, in krško, there is a soviet-era nuclear power plant. and if we have an incident there, then we don't have to worry about co2 pollution in the whole of europe. the commission's approach, as we see it here, is yet another democratic defeat. this is a special class of thing that we are witnessing here, without being able to go into political and economic background. this is a green ribbon, a loop, around nuclear energy, and that means, in fact, the revival of nuclear energy in 2022, a nuclear power with which we have had only negative experiences in the course of our history, and i do not need to give all the examples here. the commission is doing all this on the basis of an internal report from the european commission, which does not even mention how nuclear waste could be handled or that there could be any incidents. we are here to say a very clear no to this taxonomy. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by means of a 'blue card' procedure.)
lift the blue card. mr. mayer, i have a simple question for you. i'm from krk. i was mayor of krško for 13 years. the nuclear power plant in krško is westinghouse technology. this is american technology. and it's not right that you're, as you have so many times, misleading the public about some russian technology in krk. this plant was ranked among the best nuclear power plants in europe in stress tests. and it's also, after all the performance reviews that have been done, among the top 10 percent of nuclear power plants in the world.
reply to a verbal message under the 'blue card' procedure. yes, my dear colleague, i have other information. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear power stations in the former yugoslavia are not destroyed.
the attempt by the leftist colleagues here to remove nuclear energy from the taxonomy is irresponsible and hypocritical. we meet here every month in strasbourg and the notorious opponents of nuclear energy are always present here in france. apparently, everyone feels safe enough to come here. this country has been running safely on nuclear power for 40 years. that applies to the electricity in this parliament, and also to the electricity you use to charge your mobile phones. the eu's own research centre says nuclear energy is no more harmful than renewables. in addition, nuclear power plants produce energy continuously. so it's better than sun and wind. the ipcc and the international energy agency also say we need nuclear power. the left is selective about science. that too is irresponsible and hypocritical. day in, day out, you're here pleading to meet your own climate goals. then the only way you can take yourselves seriously is to vote for nuclear power as part of the solution.
mr president, our common goal is to leave a good world for our children. for that, we have to meet our climate goals. the taxonomy is an invitation to private investors: invest in our clean energy system of the future. the taxonomy thus identifies the conditions under which investments can have a positive impact on the climate. this is quite clear for nuclear energy, because nuclear energy plays an important role as a stable and clean base alongside solar and wind. gas is not called green in the taxonomy at all. the taxonomy does say that in some places in europe, under strict conditions and where there are no alternatives, we could close many dirtier coal plants if we temporarily invest in the cleanest gas technologies there, so that people can continue to heat their homes and at the same time we take steps towards our climate goals. it's a matter of realism. it's a matter of taking responsibility. if we want to meet our climate goals, we don't have the luxury of shutting out technologies. it is not our own interests that should be the priority, but the common goal.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, the rapporteur is not here, unfortunately. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr rangel, for his work and genuine efforts to find compromises, and it has resulted in a strong, unified position of the parliament. with this report, the parliament makes very clear that the future of bosnia is in the eu and it urges for a serious revival of the eu enlargement agenda. the russian aggression has made this integration process even more urgent, as destabilisation of the region is a real threat. but we are also frank: for bosnia to advance on its path to the eu, commitment is needed from both sides. mr dodik cannot maintain to be in favour of eu accession and at the same time support putin and try to dismantle the state of bosnia. hdz cannot insist on cementing ethnic division through a discriminatory electoral law which undermines the principle of one person, one vote. leaders need to overcome the past and implement the highly needed reforms transforming bosnia into the functional, multi-ethnic state that the citizens so much want and deserve.
i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his speech, which was a very good start to the czech presidency and i hope it will continue to be so. i very much appreciate your call for creating and maintaining unity and for finding compromise, because that is what we know the european union stands for. i very much appreciate the references to vaclav havel by both you and the president of the european commission, and the motto 'europe as a task' is very well chosen in my opinion. so let me remind you of three tasks that i consider to be the most important. the first one you talked about is to maintain a clear, comprehensive and tough stance against russia's unjustified aggression in ukraine and be prepared to cut off gas supplies, which is a huge task. the second task for our presidency is to complete as many trilogues as possible, especially the most important ones. our companies, our citizens need to be sure what our goals are and what our policies are. in particular, i believe that the task for our presidency is to complete the key files on 'fit for 55', and i hope that you will succeed in doing so. third, to succeed in everything, we must be able, as you mentioned, to listen to each other and to find the right compromises. i can assure you that this is how parliament works. at the same time, we should not forget that we have to explain these compromises to our citizens, explain why these solutions are good not only for czech citizens, but also for estonians, finns, germans and austrians and all europeans. this is the only way to maintain the necessary support from the european union and at the same time to achieve our objectives at the lowest cost. i wish you the best of luck.
madam president, i have three points for the prime minister. first of all, on migration, the council for years now has aimed for a minimal and incomplete package that is best summarised as ‘fortress europe’, whereas the european parliament wants a coherent package that will allow us to actually manage migration. we have asked the council to commit, together with the european parliament, to take the entire package across the finish line before the european elections. but the council is hesitating. will you here commit, together with the european parliament, to finalising this package before the election? secondly, i agree with guy verhofstadt. you said on treaty change ‘oh, we need to go slowly, slowly’. but the world is changing at a dizzying speed and europe is lagging behind. intergovernmental europe is spectacularly ill—equipped to deal with crises or to have a coherent vision for the future. this european governance system is dangerously weak and outdated, and the european council is becoming a threat to the future of the european union if you keep blocking reforms. you have a responsibility to the citizens and not to national governments. i expect you to act in the interests of the future of europe.
madam president, mr prime minister, i appreciate, i tell you from the outset, the priorities of the czech presidency and i wish you success. i'm from romania, i know your country well. i was a child when, in 1968, your country was invaded by russia and i rejoiced when my parents suffered alongside the czechs and when my country opposed the russian entry. but, mr. prime minister, you've talked here about solutions, reasonable solutions that address your priorities. one of them is the internal market, which you mentioned. the internal market is fragmented, mr prime minister. i am vice-president of the internal market commission, i have raised this issue with the 16 chairmen. you're the 17th, i hope you can solve it. we cannot have to have two europe, schengen and non-schengen. we cannot have second-class citizens and please, mr prime minister, do not disappoint me as the french presidency, which i asked for this, because, yes, my country meets the technical conditions of 2011 and this parliament has voted several times for romania and bulgaria to join schengen. i therefore ask you, mr prime minister, to complete your priorities with the internal market union, without having two internal markets, schengen and non-schengen.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, dear prime minister, honourable members of the european parliament, allow me to address you in my mother tongue, because czechs and slovaks will forever be brothers. vážený pán premiér, veľmi dobre ste popísali obrovskú nádej, ktorú naši rodičia spájali s pražskou jarou a beznádej, ktorú priniesli ruské tanky. veľmi dobre vieme, že nádej sa do našich miest, do našich ulíc vrátila až o 20 rokov neskôr počas zamatovej revolúcie, ktorá vrátila demokraciu do strednej európy a strednú európu späť do srdca európy. v tomto príbehu je veľmi veľa paralel a podobností s dnešnou vojnou na ukrajine, preto ukrajine tak dobre rozumiete, preto sa viete vcítiť do ich situácie, do ich postavenia, a preto ste im preukazovali takú principiálnu podporu. z dnešnej debaty ste určite nadobudli dojem a urobili záver, že vašich päť priorít je správne zvolených. vyplýva to z precíznej prípravy vášho predsedníctva a pružnosti, s akou ste pristúpili k ich modifikácii vzhľadom na situáciu vo svete a hlavne na rozpútanú ruskú agresiu voči ukrajine. chcel by som vás menom európske komisie ubezpečiť, že budeme spoločne pracovať na mnohých úlohách, ale určite hlavne na tých, ktoré boli spájané a budú spájané s rozpracovaním záverov z lugana a spojené s plánom obnovy ukrajiny. české predsedníctvo, ale takisto aj nové členské krajiny, môže odovzdať veľmi veľa svojich skúseností z transformácií, z prípravy na členstvo, tak ako ukrajine, tak aj moldavsku, gruzínsku, ako aj krajinám na západnom balkáne. energetická bezpečnosť bude určite ďalšou veľkou skúškou, ktorý musí európska únia, ktorú musí európska únia zvládnuť. uvedomujeme si potrebu jasných pravidiel, ktoré budú garantovať solidaritu medzi členskými krajinami v tejto zložitej situácii. určite sa poučíme z krízy spojenej z prvých mesiacov počas covidu a v tomto zmysle pripravujeme na dvadsiateho júla konkrétny návrh, ktorý potom budeme samozrejme naďalej rozpracovávať s európskym parlamentom, s českým predsedníctvom v rámci rady. here i would like to underline the importance – and thank you, prime minister, for the priority you have given to fit for 55, because here time is of the essence. the urgency is clear: just this week, we have seen the terrible melting of glaciers in marmolada, heat waves and fires in spain, i would say across europe, and if you look at the calendar, 2030 is indeed around the corner. therefore, i would like to assure you that you will have all the support we can provide you with for the trilogues with the european parliament, because now the positions and general approaches are approved, the votes in the european parliament have taken place, so now we have to work on the compromise to make fit for 55 happen. i also would like to agree with you, mr prime minister, that what we need is to strengthen the strategic resilience of the european economy and to work on europe’s technological and industrial leadership. and part of a strong economy is strong economic governance. therefore, our plan is that, already in the second half of this year, we will work on a new strong economic governance framework; we will provide orientation on possible changes to the economic governance of today, after the summer break, so it would be well in time prepared for 2023. we plan, together with the czech presidency, to foster consensus where we can, find the best possible solutions, how to deal with debt sustainability, how to make sure that we will work on sustainable growth through investments and reforms. speaking about the conference on the future of europe, i would like to reassure the honourable members that the concrete follow-up by the commission will be presented to you in the first speech of the president of the european commission in september, in her address on the state of the union. immediately, the follow-up would be worked into the next commission work programme. and when it comes to the convention, once the decision is taken, the commission will play its role to make europe stronger and better in the future. pán premiér, za motto českého predsedníctva ste zvolili havlove slová „európa ako úloha“, európa ako úkol, „europe as a task“. som presvedčený, že česká republika tento „úkol“ úspešne zvládne a v európskej komisii sa tešíme na úzku spoluprácu so skvele pripraveným a vysoko motivovaným českým predsedníctvom. na záver by som vám zaželal len veľa úspechov a veľa šťastia a tešíme sa na spoluprácu.
the president-in-office of the council. madam president, i thank you again for a really lively discussion and a lot of suggestions and questions. i think that all of this shows, and for me it is a clear signal, that the priorities of the czech presidency have been well chosen. you have brought up some other aspects which i could not mention in my speech because of the time limit, but we will certainly address them and take your suggestions seriously. i shall try to answer some of the specific questions very quickly and concisely, but perhaps i will begin with the more general one concerning the conference on the future of europe, concerning a certain impatience which was most clearly expressed here with a certain emotion in the speech by mr verhofstadt. i have to say that speed and emotion are not always the best counselors to get a good result. i care about the future of europe, i care about good cooperation between european countries. i care about the european union project. as someone who has been involved with the european union for 30 years, i can remember things that didn't work out. if you think about the european constitutional treaty, for example, or some of the reform projects of the european union, which were not well prepared or came too quickly, they led to problems and weakened support for the european union among the people rather than to better results. i don't believe that we're going to get better results by going faster. we have to have a thorough debate, we have to listen to each other. we cannot imagine that a person who wants to go faster is a better european than one who advises us to discuss and find the right solution and then move on. if we listen to each other and we respect each other and we keep this common goal in mind, then i think we can achieve good results. the czech presidency will not stand in the way of anything, the czech presidency will continue to lead the debate. but we're gonna conduct this debate in a way that can lead to a successful outcome. i want to respond to some of the questions that have been raised regarding article 7. the czech presidency will act as the presidency should, i.e. as an impartial mediator and moderator, and will make efforts towards a peaceful solution. that is our task and that is how the presidency should proceed. as for the issues that were related to gender equality, i'm deliberately referring to what has been said in several speeches. in line with the council's 18-month programme and the presidency's declaration on gender equality, gender equality will also be our priority. the czech presidency will seek to advance the trialogue with the european parliament on the proposal for a directive on gender pay transparency and will start the process of discussing the proposal to strengthen the role and independence of equality bodies, which play a key role in this regard. the czech presidency will organise a conference in prague on 3 and 4 october on equal opportunities for young men and women in the labour market in the post-covid recovery. as regards the specific issue of rare diseases, an expert conference will be held in prague on 25 and 26 october to increase access to treatment for patients with rare diseases and to discuss the european plan for rare diseases. the main objective of the czech presidency on the question of free trade agreements will be to improve the eu's ability to conclude and conclude trade agreements. as the data show, the european union is lagging behind some third countries in this area, and we want to move forward on this. key to this are the regions of latin america, the indo-pacific and africa, where the european union, by its possible inaction, is clearing the way for systemic rivals. and we don't want that. and what is mentioned in the written material is of course also true for the czech presidency. as regards the 'fit for 55' package, we are preparing intensively for the next phase of negotiations in the design of this package. we know the positions of both legislators, the council and the european parliament, and our task is to start negotiations, and as you know, one of the priorities of the czech presidency is energy security. the question of the schengen area, bulgaria and romania was also raised repeatedly. i have to say that we are already in contact with the governments of croatia, bulgaria and romania regarding the extension of schengen. we take the free movement of people very seriously and i hope that we can make some progress here. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you once again for the opportunity to speak and to present the priorities of the czech presidency. thank you for your contributions, for your discussion, for your words of support, which i greatly appreciate. i am glad, and i think i can summarise it this way, that the european parliament shares the same view, and i am glad also because i see the cooperation between parliament and the council as being key to being able to deliver what the citizens of the european countries want from us. and the citizens of the european countries want us to be able to deal with, deal with and deal with the consequences and causes of war. many of them have mentioned it. the consequences are rising prices for energy, food, other goods, a destroyed ukraine, all of which puts us in front of new challenges. the cause, of course, is russia and its aggressive policy. we can play a big role in this area too by continuing to provide assistance to ukraine and putting pressure on russia to stop its aggressive goals. our job is to connect all of these activities together. the czech presidency has much to build on the successes of the french presidency, which i mentioned in my speech. but of course the challenges, the threats, what the european union is facing are enormous. our task is to bring all these activities together in such a way as to improve the lives of our citizens and to improve the competitiveness of european economies, to ensure the security of our countries and to ensure the security of the european union as a whole. i thank you again and look forward to working with the european parliament.
thank you very, very much prime minister, and thank you dear colleagues, for this debate. we look forward to your presidency, as you’ve seen from all the comments by the colleagues. thank you and good luck. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. europe is at war in its immediate neighbourhood. the conflict and spiraling energy prices have plunged the european economy into a war-inflation spiral and a global food crisis is looming. i therefore declare that the czech presidency will begin its work in an emergency situation, and i wish it every success. it is important to have a sober, thoughtful response to challenges. the czech presidency is therefore encouraged to finally focus on energy security in its energy policy. energy supply is not an ideological issue, but a physical one: either you have a source of energy or you don't. i expect the czech presidency to take steps in this direction. on the other hand, it is positive that, unlike the left, the czech presidency recognises the key role of nuclear energy in energy security and climate protection. nuclear energy is an essential part of the european energy mix and any initiative to promote its use is therefore welcome. finally, it is gratifying that the czech presidency is paying particular attention to mitigating the social and economic impact of the explosion in energy prices caused by the failure of brussels' energy policy. we need to protect citizens and small businesses from the energy crisis. people, faced with increasingly crazy ideas from brussels, want to wash, heat and travel, so i expect sober, reasonable proposals from the czech presidency on this issue.
in writing. i welcome the czech republic to the presidency of the council of the european union. the six months ahead hold many challenges for europe, but also many opportunities. the priorities identified by the presidency, namely (1) addressing the refugee crisis and post-war reconstruction in ukraine, (2) addressing the challenges of energy security, (3) strengthening europe's defence capabilities and cybersecurity, (4) ensuring the strategic resilience of the european economy and (5) the resilience of democratic institutions, are all points that require urgent joint action, a deliberate eu policy and concerted action by both the eu institutions and the member states. the economic and security risks posed by the current war in our neighbourhood have put europe's most vulnerable communities in a particularly difficult situation, including our deprived and disadvantaged fellow citizens, women and children forced to flee war, the transcarpathian hungarian minority and europe's roma communities. the assistance to those in difficulty and their integration and reintegration into the labour market, as referred to in points 1 and 4, shall be given high priority. so i ask the czech republic to actually do something along the lines of its objectives to improve the well-being of our roma communities and the well-being of citizens who have been put in a difficult situation by the challenges of war. coordinate action plans of the eu institutions, help facilitate communication with member states and act to restore trust in the european union.
in writing. the european union's priority for the next six months must be to protect european citizens from the multiple crises we are facing and from the challenges posed by rising energy and food prices, inflation or the war in ukraine. to deal with these unprecedented situations, we need to preserve the unity of the european bloc, respecting each member state, while ensuring that we advance the european agenda on important issues. a topic that requires the attention of the czech presidency of the council of the european union is romania's accession to schengen. our country meets all the criteria for joining the schengen area. it has demonstrated in recent months that it can ensure the protection of the external borders of the european union and has shown that it has the infrastructure and skills to support this area of free movement. moreover, in the current context, it is becoming increasingly important that products from this area of europe reach the rest of the european union faster. in this regard, i ask the czech presidency of the council of the european union to put romania's accession to the schengen area to a vote in the next six months in the justice and home affairs council.
my fellow citizens! let's keep sitting here. notice: the group 'renew europe' has informed the chair of the decision on changes to the appointment to the committee. this decision will be entered in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the date of this communication.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the european council and the commission conclusions of the european council meeting of 23 and 24 june 2022 (2022/2707 ((rsp)). i would remind you that you are free to choose your seat in the chamber, except for the first two rows reserved for group leaders. i don't think we can work with blue cards this time. the microphone procedure will remain open, because we should not have to obstruct the vote in plenary too much.
eurcouncil. – mr president, the kremlin’s barbaric war against ukraine has marked a tectonic shift on our continent and created a new geopolitical reality. last week, with the 27 eu leaders, we took a number of major geopolitical decisions. first, we decided to recognise the european perspective of ukraine, moldova and georgia. the future of these countries and their people lies within the eu. we also decided to grant candidate status to ukraine and moldova. this sends a strong message to their people and to our european union citizens. we are also ready to grant candidate status to georgia once the priorities, in the commission’s opinion, have been addressed. since the russian attack, we have responded with unity to support ukraine, and we will stay right by their side for as long as it takes. we will continue to provide military support; we have already done a lot, but ukraine needs more, so we talked about increasing military support for ukraine. we will also continue to support ukraine financially, and we count on the commission to present soon a proposal to grant ukraine new macro—financial assistance of up to eur 9 billion in 2022. we are also committed to supporting ukraine’s reconstruction, together with international partners. and work will continue on sanctions to make sure all our sanctions are effectively implemented, and to prevent as much as possible circumvention. in close coordination with our g7 partners – we were together in germany a few days ago, we will consider sanctions on gold and we will also explore measures such as price caps to secure energy supply and to try to reduce price surges. ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, the european union needs the western balkans as much as the western balkans need us, and this is why we met with the western balkan leaders just before our european council meeting. it was a frank, open, but also a hard debate with the western balkan leaders, but it was also much needed. we decided how to re-energise our engagement with this region, and we reaffirmed our strong commitment to reviving the enlargement process and to see how to clear the obstacles along the way. opening accession talks with north macedonia and albania is a top priority. on the second day of the european council, the bulgarian parliament voted to overturn its veto on north macedonia beginning eu membership talks. just yesterday and this morning, i was in north macedonia for the second time in recent months to try to explain the council’s proposal to pave the way to the opening of eu accession talks with north macedonia. i would like to thank the french presidency for their tireless efforts to help bridge the gap between north macedonia and bulgaria and for opening the possibility to move this process forward swiftly, both for north macedonia and for albania. ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, progress on bilateral and regional disputes is also urgent. normalising relations between kosovo and serbia through the belgrade—pristina dialogue is of key importance. we have also had the occasion to reaffirm that we are ready to grant candidate status to bosnia and herzegovina. the commission will report on the implementation of 14 key priorities set out in its opinion, with special attention to a substantial set of reforms. mesdames et messieurs, ce conseil européen a aussi été l’occasion d’aborder cette idée de mettre en place une communauté politique européenne. nous avons eu un débat substantiel avec les 27 chefs d’état et de gouvernement sur ce sujet pour tenter de dessiner les contours d’une telle initiative. nous avons tenté de répondre aux trois questions centrales qui se sont posées au départ de cette idée émise dans cette assemblée, le 9 mai, par le président macron. qui a vocation à participer à une telle communauté politique? nous pensons que toutes celles et ceux qui, sur le continent européen, partagent les mêmes intérêts et qui souhaitent se coordonner et coopérer dans toutes sortes de domaines ont vocation à être invités. cela ne veut pas dire que ce sont nécessairement des pays qui ont vocation à rejoindre l’union européenne. certains d’entre eux n’ont pas ce souhait. d’autres, même s’ils avaient ce souhait, n’auraient pas vocation à nous rejoindre. par contre, certains de ces pays ont vocation à le faire, et sont même déjà engagés dans des processus en lien avec l’adhésion à l’union européenne. la deuxième question est: avec quel but? il s’agit de mettre en place une plateforme politique plutôt souple et flexible sur des thèmes comme l’énergie, la sécurité, les infrastructures, la santé, une pandémie. si une telle plateforme avait existé au moment de la covid-19, je suis totalement convaincu qu’un certain nombre de choses eussent été faites en associant plus directement des partenaires autour de nous, sur le continent européen. et puis la troisième question, c’est comment nous pensons. et la tendance qui se dégage de nos débats, c’est qu’il n’y a pas la nécessité d’une structure institutionnelle lourde, en tout cas certainement pas dans un premier temps. il y a plutôt la nécessité, à un rythme régulier, de mettre en place des réunions au niveau des leaders. le mandat m’a été confié, ainsi qu’au premier ministre tchèque dans le cadre de la présidence rotative, de préparer une telle initiative, qui pourrait déjà avoir lieu sous la présidence tchèque et en tout cas avant la fin de l’année. nous allons donc très certainement avoir l’occasion de revenir sur ce sujet dans les débats au parlement, de vous en rendre compte lors des prochaines rencontres qui interviendront au sein du conseil européen en lien avec ce sujet. un mot en lien avec la conférence sur l’avenir de l’europe et le courrier qui m’a été formellement adressé, ainsi qu’à la présidence rotative tchèque, pour vous indiquer que ce point n’a pas fait l’objet de débats directs, mais que des conclusions ont été validées dans le cadre du conseil européen qui s’est tenu. je souhaite exprimer mon engagement d’être attentif à ce qu’un suivi approprié puisse intervenir sur ce sujet en lien avec nos principes institutionnels. je suis certain que, là aussi, il y aura nécessité de revenir sur ce sujet. le conseil européen, dans ses conclusions, a pris en considération cet effort inédit de consultation citoyenne, qui a débouché sur un certain nombre de recommandations. enfin, je voudrais terminer ce compte rendu par un point central qui a fait l’objet de nos échanges le deuxième jour du conseil européen, le vendredi. il s’agit de la situation économique et des conséquences sociales de cette situation économique en lien avec la guerre qui a été déclenchée par la russie. nous mesurons bien, partout en europe et partout dans le monde, que l’inflation, la hausse des prix, l’impact sur les produits alimentaires et sur la sécurité alimentaire mettent sous pression nos familles, nos citoyens et nos entreprises partout en europe. cela nécessite une mobilisation, une ambition de coordonner autant que possible nos politiques. cela nécessite une ambition de pratiquer l’intelligence collective et de veiller à ce que les mesures de soutien qui sont prises sur le plan national soient le plus ciblées possible afin d’avoir un impact réel et d’éviter de provoquer un effet inverse à celui qui est souhaité. nous voyons bien qu’il y a la nécessité de dialoguer, de coordonner, d’agir de concert, d’agir ensemble. et puis enfin, nous avons fait le point sur l’état d’avancement de deux projets que je crois extrêmement importants: l’union bancaire et l’union des marchés des capitaux, qui sont, je pense, des leviers potentiellement puissants, si on arrive dans les prochains mois à progresser davantage encore sur ces sujets afin de consolider cette capacité d’unité européenne et de renforcement de notre modèle économique. enfin, je conclus ce rapport en vous indiquant que l’union européenne n’agit pas seule. les dernières semaines ont été aussi le théâtre d’un agenda international, notamment avec la réunion du g7, qui s’est tenue en allemagne, à laquelle nous avons participé de manière active pour nous coordonner avec nos partenaires, avec nos amis. dans le même esprit, nous préparons les réunions du g20, qui auront lieu avant la fin de l’année en indonésie, pour veiller à ce que les intérêts, les valeurs, les principes auxquels nous croyons puissent être portés et défendus. je conclus en vous disant que nous mesurons bien – et vous le mesurez bien – que les temps que nous vivons sont des temps troublés. des plaques tectoniques sont en mouvement parce que cette guerre absurde, injustifiée, brutale et non provoquée a été décidée par le kremlin. plus que jamais, l’ambition de l’union européenne, au travers de notre unité et de notre puissance, doit être l’ambition de la stabilité, de la sécurité, de la paix et de ces valeurs que nous souhaitons incarner. cela va supposer que nous faisions preuve à la fois de lucidité, de sang-froid, mais aussi de capacité d’agir pour nous projeter dans l’avenir et pour défendre ce en quoi nous croyons, ces valeurs démocratiques auxquelles nous sommes tellement attachés et cette croyance fondamentale que le droit international est la meilleure garantie pour les libertés et pour les sociétés libres.
i'd like to welcome the new zealand parliament delegation to the diplomatic gallery. our colleagues are in strasbourg this week for the 26th eu-new zealand interparliamentary meeting. new zealand is a friend and an ally. we must continue to strengthen cooperation and strengthen our political and economic links, in particular in the areas of security, development aid, energy and climate change. i look forward to a productive interparliamentary meeting this afternoon.
the european council will continue to discuss the european council and commission statements conclusions of the european council of 23 and 24 june 2022 (2022/2707 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, dear president of the european council, honourable members of the european parliament, honourable members of the parliament of new zealand, it’s indeed a pleasure to participate in this debate, to report on a number of issues discussed by the leaders at the european council in june, most notably on the next steps of prospective future members of the european union. to start with ukraine, moldova and georgia, all three countries are an undeniable part of our european family and i am delighted that this was recognised by the leaders, who unanimously welcomed the commission’s opinion and made the historic decision to grant candidate status to ukraine and moldova and a european perspective to georgia. these opinions were based on three sets of criteria: political, economic and the ability to assume the obligations of eu membership. the decision taken by the european council underlines to the world our unity and strength, especially in view of russia’s aggression against ukraine. one of the underlying reasons for the kremlin launching its unjustified invasion was ukraine’s desire to join the european union. by answering this desire directly, our response has been loud and clear. the european council’s endorsement of candidate status acknowledges the immense progress that kyiv has achieved since the maidan protests of 2014. but now the hard work really begins, with the need for ukraine to consolidate the reforms it has achieved and move forward with determination. in the meantime, the eu again reiterated its full support for ukraine in all dimensions as it courageously defends itself against russian imperialism. over the coming weeks, we will work on further military support for ukraine as well as the new micro—financial assistance package. we will also soon table a full reconstruction package to rebuild ukraine once it has won the war. to return to enlargement, moldova is on a genuine pro—reform, anti—corruption and european path for the first time since independence. it too still has a long way to go, with major improvements needed to its economy and public administration. but provided it stays the course, there is no doubt that moldova has the potential to meet the requirements of eu membership. this is why it has been granted candidate status, on the understanding it continues along this path. georgia shares the same aspiration and potential as ukraine and moldova. its application has strengths, particularly with regard to the market orientation of its economy. but to succeed in its application, georgia needs to come together politically to set a clear path towards the necessary reforms, working with civil society. this is why georgia has been granted a european perspective with a view to giving it candidate status once these reforms are achieved. it is also important that the eu gives new impetus to the enlargement process in the western balkans. the unblocking of this process for north macedonia and albania is particularly welcome in this regard, and i would like to thank the president of the european council and the french presidency for all their efforts in this regard. there has been a great deal of thought given to how we can best support bosnia and herzegovina on its european path. as requested by the european council, the commission will now report on the country’s implementation of the 14 priorities. again, we will look to grant bosnia and herzegovina candidate status once the most substantial reforms have been implemented. on the conference on the future of europe – an issue that i know is important to this parliament, just as it is important to the commission and to me personally – it remains crucial that the ideas and the initiatives that emerged from the process and which we received from our citizens are properly acted upon. to that end, the leaders tasked the institutions with ensuring the proposals set out in the report on the outcome of the conference are followed up effectively, and i look forward to working with you on this important venture. it is critical not only that the recommendations of the citizens are taken on board, but that the europeans everywhere are kept properly informed of the progress made. finally, with the war in ukraine continuing to have an impact on europe’s economy, not least on food and energy prices, we need to continue doing everything we can to shield the most vulnerable from the worst effects. and we need to be prepared for conditions to deteriorate, including possible further disruption of russian gas deliveries. this means doubling down on our efforts to diversify supplies, including through ensuring that member states’ national emergency plans are adequate for any challenges ahead. it was agreed at the european council to work on an eu emergency reduction plan with industry, to coordinate these national plans. the commission will continue its efforts to ensure a united and cooperative approach to energy in europe to make sure that the solidarity principle is fully implemented. on the financial side, even as deficits and debts have soared after covid, there is still a need for massive investment to build a greener and more digital future. so we will design rules reconciling these higher investment requirements with the need to safeguard sound fiscal finances. last but not least, croatia has worked hard to meet all the requirements for taking the momentous step of adopting the euro, and we look forward to welcoming it into the eurozone on 1 january 2023. so, mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, there are a lot of very important, crucial topics which i’m sure we’ll have a chance to discuss now together in the plenary debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, president michel, vice—president šefčovič, welcome back to the european parliament. the decision of the european council to grant candidate status to ukraine and the republic of moldova and to offer this perspective to georgia, once it fulfils the conditions, was correct. this is a decision supported by the european parliament and it corresponds to the expectations of the people in these countries. the people of ukraine are defending european values with their lives in ukraine and the people of moldova have opened their houses to ukrainian refugees. more ukrainian refugees have entered the republic of moldova in relation to its population than any eu member state. we, as the european parliament, have understood early that we can only live in safety and security within the borders of the european union if the countries in our immediate neighbourhood borders are safe and stable. this is why we called already in march for ukraine, and in may for the republic of moldova, to work towards granting this candidate status. because in these times we have to act quickly, clearly without hesitation. dear colleagues, members of the parliament, thank you very much for the fact that parliament stood united since the beginning of this war in supporting countries in our eastern neighbourhood. ukraine and the republic of moldova still have a long way to go before they are ready for eu membership but, vice-president šefčovič, we have to make sure that we start this process at a technical level and we have to make sure that even before these countries are ready to join, we support them and we make sure that the people in these countries can start feeling the benefits of getting closer to the european union. the council made the right decisions on ukraine, the republic of moldova, but the outcome on western balkans was disappointing. i was encouraged, president michel, by your remarks today, and i believe we all have to work together so that we make sure that the czech presidency succeeds where the french presidency has not managed to succeed, in offering a clear perspective to the western balkan countries. good news came from the european council when it comes to the euro area. thank you, president michel, for endorsing croatia’s readiness to become a member of the euro area on 1 january. we have yesterday voted with a large majority here to approve croatia’s entry into the euro area on 1 january. every single member of the four largest groups in the european parliament, and many colleagues in the other groups, have voted in favour. so thank you very much dear colleagues, this shows us that croatia’s path on strengthening its economy, on managing its budget with care, on getting closer to the euro area under the leadership of prime minister andrej plenković, was correct. it pays off. it is good news for croatia. it is good news for the euro area. it will make the euro area stronger and it shows the trust in our common currency. last point, it is our duty, dear colleagues, to further strengthen the european union. we have to equip the european union with the tools it needs to overcome the problems that people are facing. we held the conference on the future of europe but, president michel, the outcome of the european council saying that ‘we take note of this and we are happy that there was an exchange with citizens’ is too little. we have to take the ideas of the citizens on board. we have to solve their problems and we have to do this together. council, commission and members of the european parliament, we have to make the eu fit for the future. we have to make sure that it can make decisions, it can react fast, and it offers solutions to the problems that people are facing.
the european council has already made a number of important decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in strasbourg. the progress on the accession requests is certainly positive. the european union is the home of democracy. we are the institution that more and more countries look to for stability, security and peace. the shadows are those we still see on energy and economic issues, in particular on the issues of security of gas supplies and the fight against inflation, issues which cannot but have a european response. the council conclusions, while calling on the commission to pursue its efforts to ensure affordable energy supplies as a matter of urgency, de facto postpone the decision to set a european ceiling on gas prices, which could immediately curb inflation, which is also affecting basic goods. in the face of some fears that russia will react to a price cap with retaliation, it should be remembered that putin is already cutting supplies, precisely to prevent europe from filling up its reserves, and thus increase blackmail against us in the winter months, when we will need more gas. and so we need to act now by diversifying our supply, by investing heavily in renewable energy, by setting a european cap on gas prices now, and by helping households and businesses caught in the crosshairs of high gas bills, high gas prices and inflation in a context where we are not yet out of the pandemic. time is running out, we do not need european councils postponing decisions, but a united and united union that can give concrete and effective answers.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, president michel, commissioner, we welcome that the council has taken the historic decision and accepted the status of accession candidate for both ukraine and moldova, as called for by the european parliament. the war russia is waging against ukraine is one against european integration, and we must stand together. we do regret, however, the lack of progress towards the western balkans. while the countries joining, we know, have to undertake tough democratic reforms, the job is not theirs alone. but where the european council is disappointing a growing number of european citizens, president michel, is when it comes to the debate on the future of the eu. while parliament has already called for the establishment of a new convention, the council conclusions invite the institutions to follow up on the debates of the citizens only within their competences and within the current treaties, which basically means the euco seems to have ruled out treaty change and a new convention. it’s a big disappointment. a big disappointment that the french presidency did not move forward the process of amending the treaties, as requested by this house. furthermore, in the programme we just discussed with the czech presidency, we only see a vague reference to continuing the debate. president michel, europe may be ready to send a political signal for new members, and this is very much welcome, but the council does not seem ready to address the issue of internal reform to make such commitment a real success. history is knocking at our doors. a real political union is more needed than ever. please take up the challenge!
mr. president, i have to ask you... mr president, officer, i have to go. the enlargement issue gained new impetus this year with the granting of candidate status to ukraine and moldova, a symbolic step. now we must do everything to achieve peace in the region. however, the decisions have disappointed the countries of the western balkans. the candidate should be considered on the same basis and under the same conditions. bosnia and herzegovina and georgia should have been granted candidate status. no progress was made in the accession negotiations with serbia and montenegro. and albania and north macedonia have not yet started. the visa liberalisation process in kosovo has not progressed either. in the current geopolitical situation, the stability and security of the western balkans is a primary interest of the union. especially now, when the pressure of illegal migrants is increasing on the western balkans migration route. concrete positive decisions on the western balkans must be taken as soon as possible if we do not want to allow the region to fall into the hands of third countries.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, the president-in-office of the council has already left parliament, which is very interesting. the granting of candidate status to ukraine and moldova was the right thing to do, a great, important milestone. we in parliament were the first to call for this, and it is right to continue to support ukraine and moldova, as is intended. it is unacceptable that the western balkan countries have been waiting for so long for eu accession talks and that we have not made any progress. we have just lost, i think, a lot of trust in this region at the last summit. how is it that after 15 years, the eu is still waiting for north macedonia? how is it that the accession talks with albania have been repeatedly postponed, even though albania has been a candidate country since 2010? the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we must start from that point, and that is why it was right that we called for the establishment of a convention to finally also bring about changes in the treaties, to finally get away from unanimity for the big, important decisions, especially on foreign policy issues. we can't do that without a change of contract.
for those colleagues who complained that the president of the european council, charles michel, has left, he announced that he has another appointment but he will follow our debate. so please take those apologies from his side into account.
president. - the decision taken by the council to grant the status of candidate country to ukraine and moldova was the only correct decision. there were also very big promises made towards the balkans. but what surprises me is that there was not a single word about how the union should function with 30 or 35 members. the leaders have taken note of the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe, while we all know that some things must change in europe. we remember how orbán used that unanimity at the last summit. we know that unanimity is a godsend for the autocrats in the union and outside the union. we have been debating here in parliament for years about a number of shortcomings in the union. that is why we - and we as liberals - pushed for it at that conference, pushed for the conclusions, pushed for that convention. so i would like to ask our charles michel: i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a vote on a resolution. you have my support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. given what has happened in the last council meeting, the parallel developments in the commission and the majority in this house, it seems that you are navigating this european union more or less like the titanic towards the iceberg. just as the rules of navigation were obviously ignored then, so all the rules of the european union are ignored somewhere today. they have long since buried maastricht, the important question of budgetary discipline. they have long since buried schengen and dublin, where anyone can travel around this european union and can enter without any corresponding control mechanisms. and now the copenhagen criteria, with the fact that ukraine and moldova are here in the candidate status. the same is true of sanctions policy: six packages have been imposed here, and the fact that the person who is sanctioned is then far less affected than those who impose the sanctions. because the sanctioned one sells oil and gas to india and china and sells it back to us at a high price. i can only appeal to you: respect the rules of this european union and stop imposing sanctions which only affect us and are a blow to the knee.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe is in crisis in many ways. the cost of living has risen to the point where it is unaffordable for millions of citizens in the european union. from energy to food, from housing to care. and what did the european council decide last week? not that the expensive green deal is being put on hold and that affordability and security of energy supply are being given priority. not that our citizens' purchasing power needs to be repaired. not that we're betting on extra border patrol to stop the immigrant influx. i wish that were true! no, instead the european council decided to make ukraine and moldova candidates for membership of the european union. they are two very poor countries, with a very big problem of corruption. the european union is getting bigger, but not better. quantity is more important than quality. my conclusion is that this eu is not working in the interests of its own people. at least not for the people of the netherlands, who will be presented with the bill for brussels' lofty ambitions.
for the verts/ale group isn't it a paradox that many countries can trace the origin of wood, meat, but can't do it with grain stolen from ukraine? russia unloads them at various ports. i would like to ask the commission what is being done to stop these shipments? it is clear that even with enormous efforts, it will not be possible to transport all the grain from ukraine to the territory of the european union. there are also questions about the grain that has already been moved across the border. we are talking about the impending famine in africa. but how will the grain reach the continent? will ukrainian grain remain on the european union market and be sold below cost? what will be the consequences for our farmers? we must help ukraine, but we must not destroy the european union's agriculture.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is unacceptable for the european institutions that when there is a problem it is always someone else's fault. the blockade of ukrainian food exports has obviously created effects, but also blame. we cannot help but take as a starting point the fact that for 70 years europe has been managing european agricultural policies, perhaps with too much idealism and too little realism, that is the theme. like farm to fork, traffic lights and other things that unfortunately today present the bill, and present it to our citizens. the blockade of ukrainian food exports will of course have to take account of certain direct and indirect effects, unfortunately. the rising cost of food, and this is a theme that even predicts an increase in the poor by 49 million. i think that european policy should reduce the poor and not increase the poor, and in this regard, i think it is also necessary to understand who has done wrong and what can be done to protect them. it is clear that we cannot always shift these responsibilities of the european institution onto the citizens, ukrainian farms, italian farms or european farms. the food shortage will, of course, affect the finances of our families. however, we must understand that in these years we have determined that a country capable of producing as much as italy has only produced 50 per cent of its wheat requirements, and then on all the packages, on all the packaging we find "italian wheat", any large multinational company writes "italian wheat", even though italian wheat is not there. i think that the ban on wheat exports is also a problem on the immigration issue. this will be another tragedy, the fact that unfortunately food shortages will lead to an even more acute issue of migration flows between africa and europe. and so here the european institution cannot contract with turkey or erdogan, erdogan is able to transit the ships from ukraine to turkey and the european institution cannot get this. this european inability of our diplomacy is taking a heavy toll on our citizens and our businesses.
the european parliament has been very active in the fight against the war in the former yugoslavia, and it has been very active in the fight against the war in the former yugoslavia. despite the solidarity corridors, there are still major obstacles to the transport of grain from ukraine. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what are we gonna do? first of all, all hands on deck to get the grain out of ukraine anyway. if it is not through the ports, then it must also be through the road, where the capacity for transit really needs to be increased even further. secondly, we must conserve our agricultural land. in my country alone, 25 000 hectares of agricultural land have been lost to industry, housing and nature in recent years. and thirdly, let us also reduce our dependence on imported raw materials, including through the reuse of nutrients. our farmers are indispensable to our food security, our countryside and the management of our landscape. food production deserves the highest priority.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, council, commissioner, the cotonou agreement has been successful in promoting sustainable development goals, and we therefore strongly support its successor. it also aims to promote human rights, eu values and to operate in a spirit of equality. so these goals all serve the interests of the citizens of acp countries, except one element that the eu insisted upon, which is the readmission clauses. if an acp country does not comply with return and readmission of their citizens, eu member states can suspend the benefits of the agreement. but if the eu does not deliver in making remittances cheaper or in promoting legal migration, the acp countries are left with empty hands because that is limited to good intentions. this does not reflect the principle of equal partnership. we need mutual and equally strong commitments. so i urge the member states to keep their promise to strengthen legal mobility of persons, solidarity in hosting refugees, facilitate remittances: these are all key to cooperation and development.
madam president, given that i only have one minute on the broad topic of fraud in the eu, i will move straight to the item highest on our agenda. that is, of course, the topic of access of hungary and poland to european funds. let’s be clear, money, of course, is extremely important to authoritarian regimes because without it there is less to give away to friends, to supporters and to influence elections. when, in a country, institutions are no longer independent and basic rule of law principles are violated in broad daylight, what we can expect is that this will affect all eu—funded programmes in one way or another. that leads me to the following points. one: we must under no condition approve hungary’s recovery plan. two: the full power of the conditionality mechanism must be applied, meaning that, as per the report now on your desk, only a freeze of 100% of eu funding will sufficiently protect the eu’s financial interests. third, on poland: the commission must honour the rule of law itself – i.e. the ruling of our court of justice on the immediate reinstatement of the suspended judges. lastly, the approval of poland’s recovery plan was a mistake. i urge you, commissioner, to join the resistance within the commission. at the next round, when poland asks for the first tranche, say ‘no’!
the arrest of the 90-year-old cardinal is a new low. what is left of hong kong's freedom of religion and democracy? hardly anything. worse, the appointment of new leader john lee promises little improvement. you'll be a citizen of this town. the inhabitants are, as it were, on a sinking ship. the european union and its member states must provide a lifeline. that means that we too can be expected to contribute to the reception of political refugees from hong kong. and let us certainly also work on imposing sanctions against john lee and other officials in china and hong kong. this is the fifth resolution in two years on the deteriorating situation in hong kong. i hope that there will be no need for a sixth, but i am afraid that we will have to talk about it a lot.
president, commissioner, flight disgrace is something that most of us suffer from. in 2018, it was even nominated for word of the year. people want to travel in an affordable and sustainable way, without damaging our planet. this refueleu aviation act is therefore of great importance and will help us to do this by obliging fuel suppliers and airlines to use and make sav. sustainable aviation fuels are 80% more sustainable than kerosene. in this way, the eu makes a difference for all of us: flying without shame into the future. but where the eu also needs to make a difference is for people with low-paid jobs and difficult working conditions in the transport sector, and particularly at airports. the old system of cheap and polluting travel, which benefits shareholders at the expense of people and the environment, must be stopped.
report drawn up on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism. mr president, energy efficiency has been a baby in the belly of energy policy for far too long. and even now - as we see households and businesses running out of money to pay their bills - government leaders are still playing catch-up without coming to any firm agreements on energy conservation. and this is where energy efficiency really comes into play: for the energy bills of households and businesses, because every kwh we do not use is cheap, for reducing our dependence on russia, because every euro we save does not go into putin's war chest, and for the climate, because the cleanest energy - as many of my colleagues in this debate will say - is the energy we do not have to generate. i therefore think that the european parliament's wish to increase the energy efficiency target is a good one. i hope the council will join us soon.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources. after all, every kwh that we don't need to use, we don't need to generate. the energy efficiency directive is good, but implementation is lagging behind. i talk a lot with people who want to make their homes more sustainable, but often they are stuck because of a lack of money or knowledge and because of complicated subsidy schemes. the commission has already made a number of proposals. take down barriers and make it easy. sometimes it's easier than you think. take this little light. it looks like a light bulb, but it's a led. if we replaced all the light bulbs in europe with leds, we would save 65 billion euros on our energy bill. that's as much energy as we're saving by using 500 coal-fired power plants. 500 coal-fired power plants! and yet this doesn't get the attention it deserves. there is still much to be gained, especially now that the energy bill is putting a huge strain on the expenditure of european citizens.
mr president, madam commissioner, the deepening energy crisis requires the european union and all member states to redouble their energy efficiency ambitions. we are facing the challenge of european energy independence and a key tool to achieve this independence is precisely energy efficiency. i would like to highlight one particular aspect of the revised directive. this is the integration of the construction industry into energy efficiency policy, which allows the promotion and increase of the use of energy from renewable sources in the building stock, the renovation of europe's building stock, the widespread introduction and use of highly energy-efficient building materials and technologies in the construction industry. the european union faces ambitious targets requiring action and investment to increase energy efficiency in the industrial sector, the energy grid and transport. the public sector, and in particular local and regional authorities, have a leading role in this process.
the commission has already done so. good legislation is not just ambition, and i think it was important for the epp to establish a really ambitious but also realistic and achievable overall energy efficiency target in the negotiations. i believe that the directive now gives member states the possibility of minimising the administrative burden. i think it's important that we were able to integrate other principles, such as cost efficiency, system efficiency and security of supply. it was pointless to include the storage in the energy efficiency directive. it requires the upgrading of electrification, and i think we have simply put a lot of things back on track in this directive. it is important that we have ensured that member states have taken into account the whole life cycle and foreseeable developments, systems and cost-efficiency and security of supply when applying the principle of energy efficiency. we are not entirely happy with the compromise on a mandatory 3% rate of renovation for public buildings, as this is a step forward from the building directive. we must not lose sight of the current cost pressures on the local authorities. but we support this ambitious step.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think there is anyone who does not want to improve energy efficiency. the problem is that we have to think about the context in which we do this. when we started the energy efficiency debate, the conditions were very different. i come from a communist country, commissioner. i've lived in the cold, i've lived without light, i've done my homework in the dark. i don't want my children and grandchildren to go through the same thing. you should know that the citizens of romania, my country, are very worried, because the information is confusing. consume energy and limit yourself to what you can afford. we can't have the procrustean path, commissioner. countries are developed differently, we can't have the same indicators, the same demands, at different wages. i think that you have to be very flexible here, to support member states that are economically less developed, to be able to support vulnerable consumers, but also industry and small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises. i was the rapporteur for the tran committee, i tried to table some amendments. i'm an engineer by profession, and i think we need to think about impact. that is why i ask you, commissioner, and i ask my colleagues, to reach an agreement so that this energy saving does not lead to a life unworthy of our citizens. (the rapporteur has agreed to respond to a 'blue card' intervention)
response to the 'blue card' intervention. mr. president, that wasn't a question, that was an explanation. i hope that the implementation, of course, is also the responsibility of the member states, but i hope that the implementation is absolutely pragmatic and with the calculation of the impact, because we cannot afford to have a generation now in the states that cannot meet these targets. in my country it will not be possible, that is very clear.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when our citizens are starting to pay huge energy bills, when the european economy is suffering from these high prices, when many european countries are still filling the russian coffers by buying their gas or would like to, at this time, reducing greenhouse gases is not and should not be the first goal, but the security of europe's energy supply. these two goals are somewhat similar, but they are also very different. we really can't put a 30-year environmental goal at the forefront while citizens and business owners are trying to survive the 30-day period and pay the monthly bills. electricity shouldn't be this expensive. the price of electricity should no longer be tied to the price of gas because many who generate electricity from other sources are now making huge profits. today we need a real access to energy and so forget, at least for a while, your green pr and listen to the citizens and their needs!
president. - ladies and gentlemen, any sensible person who looks at his energy bill understands the importance of insulation, for example. we don't need a desk-driven agenda to do that. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. because with our western lifestyle, we've become huge energy scavengers. the hunger for an even bigger house, a bigger car and a more luxurious vacation is almost insatiable. in the words of thomas a kempis, a great medieval theologian, a proud and greedy person will never find peace, but the simple and humble will have abundant inner peace. so, mr president, we must look at things more broadly, not just at technical measures but also at our way of life. not just to save energy, but to have inner peace and peace with god. you understand: this is a call to the wealthy, and certainly not to those who are standing in line at the food bank.
mr president, commissioner, the climate crisis was not put on hold because putin invaded ukraine. nor has climate change stopped because putin is weaponizing energy and actually creating artificial shortages in the european market, putting pressure on our households and our businesses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy efficiency of buildings is not compromised. and it is very important that we have binding targets, especially for public buildings. public buildings are a wasted energy sector and member states are now called upon to move faster; and they must move. greece is already allocating eur 640 million to this; 6% of the recovery and resilience fund to upgrading buildings. circular materials, more energy towards embedded energy from buildings and, above all, what matters: spaces, such as data centres, that can return this energy to citizens.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened carefully to all the views and the concerns you shared. the commission shares your views on the decisive role of energy efficiency in accelerating our transition to climate neutrality and in phasing out russian fossil fuels so that our security of supply is guaranteed and prices are kept under control. indeed, many challenges lie ahead, and this winter will not be the end of them. we need a european solution that will last, based on solidarity and joint effort. the vote for the ambitious report on the energy efficiency directive recast proposal will be part of this solution. indeed, the recast energy efficiency directive will set the framework for actions which are urgently needed. the proposed amendments on energy efficiency targets, as well as the concrete measures to achieve them, appear to me as a good start for the next steps in the negotiations. let me finish by thanking you again for your work on such an important proposal. i do hope that we can see the adoption of the recast eed as a strong eu contribution to support our economy and society as swiftly as possible. having seen the constructive discussions in parliament, and also in the council, i am very much looking forward to finalising the process.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 september 2022.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report by isabel carvalhais, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2019/833 laying down conservation and control measures applicable to the regulatory area of the northwest atlantic fisheries organisation (com (2022) 0051 c9-0046/2022 2022/0035 (cod)) (a90198/2022) and the report by isabel carvalhais, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing conservation and management measures applicable to the area covered by the agreement on fisheries in the western and central pacific and amending council regulation (ec) no 520/2007 (com (2021) 0198 c915/03 2021/2021 2021/103 (cod) 009000 (a920/92).
rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would first like to recall that on 16 february this year the commission presented a proposal to amend regulation (eu) 2019/833 in order to transpose into european union law the conservation and enforcement measures adopted by the northwest atlantic fisheries organisation, to which the european union has been a contracting party since 1979. the main objective of this proposal is to transpose into union law the amendments to the conservation and enforcement measures adopted by nafo at its annual meeting in september 2021. these include, for example, improvements to the wording of nafo and adapting its wording to the legal context of the european union, as well as transposing the revised provisions on additional procedures and serious infringements related to the use of certain fishing gear. in this context, i consider that the european commission's proposals fully comply with the principles for a rapid transposition process into union law and therefore no amendments have been tabled. in another file, the european commission submitted on 23 march 2021 a proposal to incorporate into union law the conservation and management measures adopted by the western and central pacific fisheries commission, which is responsible for the management of fishery resources in the western and central pacific, and which is responsible for adopting measures for the conservation and management of marine biological resources under its responsibility, which are binding on all contracting parties. the european union fleet authorised and licensed to operate in the convention area is quite small, but the quantities caught are considerable and have a significant impact on the management of these resources. the importance of technical measures and monitoring of the use of fish aggregating devices and of measures to protect certain sensitive species should therefore be stressed. i also believe that the european fisheries control agency (efca) should be involved in the data transmission scheme between the convention secretariat, the member states, the masters of european union vessels and the european commission. the european fisheries control agency is the union agency that coordinates national operational activities in the fisheries area and assists member states in their implementation of the common fisheries policy, so we really need to start including efca more in all these processes. i would also like to stress, in conclusion, the importance of including the annexes to the regulation to be published in the official journal of the european union, which arises from the need to ensure legality within the limits of the treaties. i would remind you that the court of justice of the european union has already pointed out to us the need to include this in the list. in short, when adopting conservation and management measures taken by regional fisheries management organisations, the european union must ensure that the measures adopted are in line with the ambitious objectives set by the common fisheries policy, which means that, in order to ensure minimal impacts on habitats, resources and species, the common fisheries policy must be applied to all union fleets, regardless of their geographical area of operation.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, dear ms carvalhais, i would like to start by thanking you for bringing the negotiations on this important transpositions to a successful end. let me briefly say a few words on both of them. the main purpose of the commission proposal regarding the northwest atlantic fisheries organization is to implement into eu law the most recent conservation and enforcement measures adopted by this organisation at its annual meeting in september 2021. as you know, such transposition of updated measures by the northwest atlantic fisheries organization is a regular legislative exercise. however, in addition, this commission proposal includes delegated powers to the commission concerning landing and inspection for greenland halibut, as well as the control measures for cod in division 3m. such delegated powers are important in order to ensure a fast transposition into eu law of these technical rules that change every year. the adoption of this amending regulation will allow union vessels to fish on the same footing as vessels from other contracting parties of the northwest atlantic fisheries organisation for future fishing seasons. this has been a recurrent request from many stakeholders across the eu, and i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their full support for the commission proposal. as regards the commission proposal for a regulation for the union fleet operating in the western and central pacific fisheries commission convention area, i believe that overall the amendments by the co-legislators improved the text. at the same time, those amendments are indeed in line with the organisation’s conservation and management measures. however, i regret that the co-legislators missed the opportunity to simplify the overall process of transposition, since some of the avenues proposed by the commission to streamline the process were not supported by the co—legislators, despite parliament’s and council’s earlier calls on the commission to further improve the process. i obviously fully respect your positions, but i think we missed a good opportunity here to simplify the procedures, which are currently too complex and long. the transposition process lasts on average 18 months – from the drafting of the proposal by the commission to its adoption by the co-legislators. considering the nature of this exercise, this is far too long and complicated. i would therefore like to ask for the inclusion of a statement on behalf of the commission in the minutes of this debate reflecting our disappointment. the commission will, in any case, continue to work together with the european parliament and the council on further improvements to the implementation of the process. in this particular context, i would like to point to the two commission proposals for the transposition of international fisheries conservation measures which are currently stalled in the interinstitutional negotiations. one proposal concerns the conservation of the atlantic bluefin tuna management plan, and the other the atlantic bluefin tuna catch documentation scheme. i am concerned that such delays affect the credibility of the european union in the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. it is indeed difficult to explain to our international partners why it takes so long for the eu to implement its international obligations. i am also concerned that the lack of transposition has negative consequences for the eu fishing fleet. we should really avoid this. we trust that work will pick up in light of the most recent additional amendment proposed by the commission in april this year and, of course, i look forward to seeing these two files advanced quickly. statement by the commission(in writing)“the european parliament and the council underlined on several occasions the need to further improve the process of implementation of conservation measures adopted by regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos), notably in a timely manner. the commission regrets that its attempt to streamline the implementation process has not been fully retained by the european parliament and the council. the commission will continue to work together with the european parliament and the council on further improvements to the implementation process.”
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, the resolutions of the regional fisheries management organisations which we are discussing today were agreed after lengthy negotiations, although the commission's proposal to transpose these agreements tends to go a little further. no one is against taking ambitious measures to manage fisheries. however, ambitious measures must be agreed and implemented by all. the fishermen of the european union should not always be the ones to pay the bill for these overly ambitious and unilateral measures of the union. the objective of having an exemplary european fleet is laudable, but our fleet is becoming less and less competitive. the more stringent the measures adopted by the european union, the more we depend on imported products. the agreements in the rfmos should be strictly transposed, ensuring a level playing field while promoting the high sustainability standards of the union for all foreign fleets.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, if we are to solve the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis, we need healthy and resilient oceans and we need global solutions – and the union memberships in international regional fisheries—management organisations are key tools. today, we are debating two such organisations and the memberships that we have there, and we, together with the colleagues and the rapporteur, are now implementing better measures for both eu vessels and other vessels in the western and central pacific area. for me and renew, it was very important to the final outcome, besides ensuring correct implementation of the international obligations, that we also included everything being done in a timely manner, that we work to strive for strengthened ocean governance and promoting sustainable fishing management. we managed to secure just those three and also more. we also managed to strengthen control measures in relation to ocean governance and marine litter. i am very proud of the outcome and want to express full support from the renew team. thank you so much for the cooperation on this important file.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, measures to conserve fisheries resources are necessary because the sustainability of stocks has been tested: in saint-pierre and miquelon, after over-exploitation by foreign trawlers in the 1970s, the collapse of cod stocks has been almost irreversible. our small-scale fisheries are the best able to adapt and react quickly to changes in the local resource. it is the first victim of the intensive fishing economic model that the european union has encouraged but has been unable to stop. this is a model of virtuous and sustainable fishing that ideologues have chosen to sacrifice for the benefit of multinational companies. if our leaders really cared about protecting our food sovereignty and a sustainable model of resource exploitation, they would stop undermining our fisheries and making regrettable decisions for which they then blame the people of the sea.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, this discussion is relevant to the integration of the rules on fishing zones managed through intergovernmental organisations or by international conventions into the legal rules on fisheries, which we are not opposed to as a rule. more relevant, however, are the conditions for each state to be able to access these fishing areas, some of which are of historical relevance, as is the case in the north-west atlantic, where some portuguese vessels still operate, with cod as one of the reference species. since the implementation of the common fisheries policy in portugal in 1986, the sector has not only suffered a drastic erosion but has also lost access to traditional fishermen abroad. this has restricted or prevented the portuguese fleet from accessing new fishing opportunities. a fisheries policy is needed which is based on the development of the sector in accordance with the needs of each state, making fishing opportunities available abroad, countering concentration phenomena and providing adequate support, in particular for the renewal of the fleet, and which gives value to fishermen and their incomes.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank my colleague, mrs isabel carvalhais, and all those involved in this report for their good cooperation. this proposal for a regulation on the western and central pacific fisheries convention is of great importance both economically and environmentally and for the competitiveness of european fisheries. as a shadow rapporteur, i have set myself three essential objectives. firstly, to promote a balance between the different fleets operating in this part of the ocean. european actors must be defended. secondly, to ensure that such a regulation is implemented in time. and finally, to promote a science-based, innovation-based approach to all fisheries-related activities, improving practices, enabling new opportunities and promoting sustainability.
mr president, commissioner, dear rapporteur isabel carvalhais, the transposition into union law of the conservation and enforcement measures adopted by the northwest atlantic fisheries organisation is crucial to ensuring compliance with sustainable fishing practices in these waters. it is a pity that it has taken so long to transpose this. the union must speed up these processes by ensuring that fisheries conservation and recovery practices are implemented, in particular by minimising infringements, including illegal and unreported fishing, which harm both the environment and the union's fishermen who comply and whose activity is threatened by those who do not. at the same time, and it is not too much to reinforce, while ensuring these transpositions, it is crucial to equip the european fisheries control agency with the human and material resources to enable it to fight effectively against any illegal practice. in this, as in all organisations, the union must have a strong and active voice in environmental conservation.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i appreciate the discussion that we had today on the two proposals and i would like to thank again the rapporteur and all of those involved in the negotiations on both files. a couple of you – mr mato, mr gonzález and other honourable members –also made some more general observations on the role of our fishing fleet and on the need to develop management measures in close dialogue with them. i absolutely agree with you, and this is what we, member states, the european commission, with your support, are doing and the transposition of files we are discussing today are key for our fleet. that’s why for these reasons we need to join forces in the future to transpose all measures much faster into eu law, simplifying the process. so i hope that i can truly count on your support. honourable members, the adoption of both proposals will update the relevant regulations with the most recent conservation and management measures. of course, i hope that we can also make swift progress on the other outstanding rfmo implementation proposals and that we will keep working together towards improving the implementation process.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for your comments, which i have listened to with great attention. i would like to emphasize the following: what this parliament is asking for, and what we do in our work, is that the measures should always be of the utmost technical and legal rigour and that they should be precisely implemented in time, because we have fishermen practising their profession in the areas covered by these conventions and who need to know, to have guarantees, in this case legal guarantees, that what they are doing is right and therefore there must be transparency and simplicity in the measures so that they can be easily understood by everyone. and look, that's exactly what happened in the nafo file, it was a very quick transposition. in almost three months the transplant was done without any problems. now, what happened in the case of the western and central pacific convention was quite different, because there it was the commission itself, to our astonishment, that delayed the negotiation process by not showing any kind of openness - and there is a record which obviously shows that i am not being untrue here - and that it did not, in fact, allow the negotiation to proceed at the best possible pace, and therefore things are as they are. we thought our proposals were valid and i would therefore like to suggest, in a spirit of absolute openness and a constructive spirit, that there could also be a little more openness and flexibility on the part of the commission in these situations where we put forward our proposals, because i believe that together - parliament, the commission and the council - we can do much more to simplify these implementation processes without compromising their rigour and also by trying to improve what can be improved here, without therefore starting from the principle that this house is just a filler and that there is no room for improvement. we therefore seek to ensure the full applicability of the common fisheries policy and it is in this spirit that we will continue to work with the commission and the council on future dossiers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 september 2022.
the next item is the briefing by mr hannes heide on the impact of covid-19 closures on children and young people in the eu (2022/2004 (ini)) (a9-0216/2022).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me start by stressing that the commission very much welcomes this very timely and important report. schools across the eu are now trying to address negative trends in students’ competence and mental health due to loss of in-person teaching and social distancing during the covid-19 crisis. this report will be instrumental in helping us direct efforts to support learning institutions across europe. i would like to assure you that the commission has been closely monitoring the situation and working with the member states in this regard. we have already taken several steps towards alleviating the negative impact that covid-19 closures of educational, cultural, youth and sports activities had on children and young people in the eu. as a result, three recently—published reference documents help member states to address those challenges. first, in november last year, the commission proposal for a council recommendation on blended learning for high quality and inclusive primary and secondary education was adopted by the council. the recommendation recognises that the physical, mental and emotional well—being of students was compromised during school closures. secondly, a detailed framework for the social and personal key competences – lifecomp – outlines the knowledge, skills and attitudes needed by young people to take care of their physical, social and mental well—being. third, on 30 june this year, the commission adopted a proposal for a council recommendation on pathways to school success. the goal of all these initiatives is to address our major concerns – the post—covid recovery, sustainability and under—achievement. this effort is part of our work on achieving the european education area by 2025. in fact, the new working group on schools under the european education area strategic framework for cooperation started its work already last year. in particular, pathways will be complemented by an expert group on school well—being to be set up in the coming months. when it comes to the budget, about 13% of the total rrf envelope, amounting to more than eur 63 billion, will be devoted to measures supporting education and skills. investment in digital education and skills will be around eur 28 billion. i would also like to stress that our erasmus+ programme has provided invaluable during the crisis. for instance, in 2020, the erasmus+ programme published two calls for proposals in the area of partnerships for digital education readiness and partnerships for creativity. each provided eur 100 million to respond to the educational challenges resulting from the covid—19 pandemic. with an overall indicative financial envelope of about eur 28 billion for 2021—2027, the programme is with nearly doubled funding compared to its predecessor, which opens additional opportunities. the programme also supports european online platforms for virtual cooperation and digital education, e-twinning and the school education gateway, which played a key role during the pandemic. in the field of sport and youth we also launched a number of initiatives like ‘be active at home’, the european week of sport, healthylifestyle4all and the european year of youth 2022. as for culture, a sector that also suffered so much, the commission published the communication ‘coronavirus: a common path to europe’s safe re—opening’. particularly useful in this context was the setting—up of creatives unite, a platform for and by the cultural and creative sectors. we made additional financial resources available through the coronavirus response investment initiative, support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency, the recovery and resilience facility, which can also be used for the cultural and creative sectors, react—eu and the future cohesion policy. the creative europe programme has an unprecedented budget of eur 2.4 billion up to 2027, and this is an increase of 60% compared with the previous programme. finally, we have worked a lot to encourage member states to consider culture as a strategic investment. as a result, at eu level, more than 2% of the total budget of the recovery and resilience plan will be dedicated to the cultural and creative sectors. mr president, honourable members, again i would like to applaud the efforts of the cult committee of the european parliament and particularly the work of the rapporteur, mr heide. our joint work is fundamental to help our young overcome the negative consequences of those two years. with your excellent collaboration i am sure we can continue doing more.
that concludes this item. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 september 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the closure of educational, cultural, youth and sporting activities due to the measures taken to deal with the covid-19 pandemic has had a devastating impact on children and young people in the eu and the rest of the world. as acknowledged by neuropsychiatrists, childcare institutions and associations, these measures have had serious effects on mental health. it's gone from 10-20% of young people with mental health problems before the pandemic, to 25% in the last two years. a kind of "trigger" that has exacerbated existing fragility and that led, in the spring of 2021, to register 64% of young people between 18 and 34 years at risk of depression and unicef to note that suicide is now the second leading cause of death among young people. as the european parliament's intergroup on the rights of the child has long warned, the european union and the member states must take urgent and decisive measures to address and prevent these tragic phenomena, such as providing free and regular psychological support for teachers, educators and childcare professionals, as well as strengthening cultural and sporting activities that can positively impact this deep and widespread generational malaise.
in writing. there is no doubt that the closure of educational, cultural, youth and sports activities due to the pandemic has effectively deprived the younger generation of any form of socialization that was available to them. this has had horrifying consequences for the psycho-physical health of millions of children. we have an obligation to deal with these problems now, so as not to allow the course and development of these children to be affected. the report is a very important tool in shaping the policy interventions that need to be implemented at european level to give young people a real start in life. we must ensure that our young people receive the necessary psychological support in this process through appropriate support structures set up by the member states themselves. ensuring access to health, education, youth, culture and sport facilities during potential future crises should be a primary objective for the state.
the next item is the brief presentation of the interim report by mr olbrycht and mrs marques on the 2021 proposal for a revision of the multiannual financial framework (2021/0429r ((apf)) (a90227/2022).
the rapporteur. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the fundamental question we are asking ourselves at this moment is whether the budget of the european union is prepared, whether it is properly structured, whether it is sufficient to meet the new challenges that lie ahead. the answer we give in the committee on budgets is that it is not prepared. we therefore have to review the multiannual financial framework and convince the council, that is to say the governments, but also the european commission, to make this kind of effort, to decide to show the public that we need changes in the budget. the first of these changes, which the european commission is now happily proposing with the support of the european parliament, is to make the legislative system more coherent. so on the one hand, we have to create new own income, including the appropriate use of emissions trading and the change of the model of this emissions trading. parliament has already taken a decision on this. at the same time, there is a second thread on energy issues, which is to say everything we voted on in our parliament under the slogan fit for 55. the idea was to have consistency between own income and new expenditure. and the third very important issue here is the question of the consequences of introducing certain legislative solutions, the consequences not for politicians, the consequences not for the european institutions, but the consequences for the people, for the europeans, for the people of our countries. so the idea was that in order to balance and reduce the negative consequences, we need to create an additional fund that would tie up the own income elements, but also the issues related to the achievement of climate goals. such a mechanism to protect citizens is crucial. what we're talking about today is not just a technical discussion. this conversation today is about the fact that we need to translate, translate the language of legislative decisions on energy and climate change into concrete action items for the european budget. that is why we are talking today about the social climate fund, about where the money for this fund is to come from, how to ensure that it is budgeted and controlled by the european parliament. we therefore have an important decision to make which will make our action more coherent. own income, fit for 55 and caring for the people together, this is going to lead to a meaningful and wisely shared social climate fund.
mr. chairman, there is no doubt that we are facing the unprecedented impact of many crises. this is a climate crisis, we're responding with the climate fund, of course, russia's aggression in ukraine. we support ukraine. it would be excellent news if ukraine could win as soon as possible with our help and that of other allies. the energy crisis, many states are still feeling the aftermath of the covid crisis. it is important to convince member states to be more responsive to the requirements that have been put forward here today. budgetary changes, i was a bit skeptical about the generation of own resources in the eu budget policy, but i think it really has obvious results. we're achieving the goals we set out to achieve. it is a very powerful instrument, the european budget. let's use it to truly protect the vulnerable, promote sustainable growth and push these new programs to the benefit of our citizens.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, dear rapporteurs, the commission welcomes this interim report. it is based on the commission’s proposal of december 2021 and it provides important and timely input for a targeted amendment of the multiannual financial framework regulation. let me briefly recall two very specific objectives of the commission proposal. first, to allow the financing of the social climate fund, as proposed in july 2021, by increasing the relevant mff ceilings by the exact amounts of expenditure proposed for the social climate fund. secondly, in conjunction with the proposal of december 2021 for introducing new own resources to the eu budget in line with the interinstitutional agreement of december 2020, to enable the use of new own resources, once introduced, for the repayment of next generation eu borrowing, without harming the integrity of the multiannual financial framework and its programme. i want to thank the european parliament and, in particular, the rapporteurs for their support for the commission proposal, which fully reflects the principles of unity and universality of the budget. we take good note of the focused modifications suggested by parliament. we acknowledge that the amendment to the multiannual financial framework regulation is intrinsically linked to not only the new own resources proposal of december 2021, but also to sectoral legislative proposals, namely the social climate fund, the carbon border adjustment mechanism and the emissions trading system directive. on the latter, the trilogue negotiations between the european parliament and the council are still ongoing. the outcome of this legislative process will, of course, be decisive for the further consideration of this targeted amendment of the multiannual financial framework proposal. to close, let me once again thank parliament for this constructive interim report.
that concludes this item. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 september 2022.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 172 of the rules of procedure).
mr president, turkey has recently intensified its aggression against greece and cyprus, using migrants as tools, making daily serious threats and spreading propaganda through fake news. president erdoğan and other senior officials are directly threatening military intervention against greece, they are reminding us of the catastrophe in asia minor with reference to izmir, they are questioning the sovereignty of our islands, and just today mr cavusoglu suggested that we should gather our heads because we will suffer the consequences. the prime minister, mr mitsotakis, and the government, through letters and contacts, are internationalizing the neighbour's behaviour and are steadily seeking dialogue within the framework of international law and the law of the sea. the council of ministers has already adopted a resolution on the situation in turkey, and the council of ministers has also adopted a resolution on the situation in turkey. the time has finally come for the immediate imposition of severe and harsh sanctions against turkey. if not now, when?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to a report which is in apocryphal form, but which is funded by the european commission. the report was prepared by the international press institute. the report contains extremely disturbing circumstances regarding the media environment in my country, the republic of bulgaria. dangerous precedents are being set by using distorted information. it's a lot of conditional work that has no probative value. but the most dangerous precedent is that it is the big media owners, hidden behind the facade of ngos, who are allowed to legitimize reports that are used in the international community. this same report very rudely and tendentiously serves the interests of the bulgarian media group iconomedia and its owner ivo prokopyev, whose reputation in bulgaria is more than controversial. this is the real and extremely dangerous takeover of the media and therefore of the democratic environment. i believe that the european commission cannot allow the financing of such highly controversial reports by the member states.
mr president, for those who like to travel, it is of course most pleasant to be in strasbourg for another week. strasbourg, the city that symbolizes the peace between france and germany. strasbourg, the city that remembers important church reformers like bucer and calvin. isn't that great? the opposite is true! our monthly move is a complete and utter idiocy. no other parliament in the world does this. it's a waste of money. and we've also just been talking about energy conservation. here's a wonderful opportunity to set a good example. i suggest, mr president, that we inform the council that we are going to close one of our offices, that we ask the council to adapt the treaty to this if necessary, and that we also ask one of the heads of state to come to our next meeting to explain. or we can of course also address the commissioner, because closing one of our branches will also go a long way towards reducing our co2 emissions.
mr president, when we talk about the energy crisis, the most important thing for my group is to answer one question: how can we ensure that the energy bill remains affordable for households and small and mediumsized businesses? the fight against energy poverty has always been a priority for the social democrats. today, the number of people at risk of energy poverty is enormous. almost no one has to spend €1,000 on energy alone. we need to take measures that have a positive impact on people's energy bills now or even retroactively. people are hungry for clarity. they want to know if they can still pay an energy bill. we need to get rid of that uncertainty and stress. the crazy thing is, right now, the crypto market is more stable than the european gas market. the gas market is no longer functioning. action is needed to counter panic pricing. we must put an end to the speculation which leads to these excessive and unreasonable prices. as socialists, we have been calling for a price ceiling on energy and a tax on the ridiculous windfall profits for months. we cannot ask people to live more economically, to lower the thermostat, to shower less, without making the companies that are profiting from this crisis pay. we are glad, mr president, that some of the measures we have been asking for over the last 12 months are finally on the table. however, i am a little surprised that no strong market interventions are planned in the gas market to reduce uncertainty and address speculation. the idea of a price ceiling for imports is also missing, which says a lot about the difficult discussions in the council. we also need to be prepared for a recession and keep people working with a permanent sure instrument to reduce the risk of unemployment in emergency situations. more procedural, mr president, i regret that we as the ep are not involved in the decision-making process. we're discussing tough measures that require full democratic support and accountability. the ep has shown that it can work quickly under the urgency procedures. take the gas storage, for example.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, tomorrow we will listen to the state of the union. we will hear an emphasis on the european values and the rule of law. solidarity with war refugees will be praised. but let me do a reality check. thousands of refugees are pushed back at our borders. greece, for instance, violates human rights on a daily basis and silences those who speak up. but the commission and the council stay silent as well, which almost invites other countries to push back refugees as well: croatia, hungary, poland, bulgaria, lithuania, and more. we have entered the stage where our european values have been rendered meaningless at our borders. and the netherlands and belgium keep their doors closed for hundreds of asylum seekers; they sleep on the streets, wait endlessly to make their asylum claim. these are two rich countries, which simply failed to organise themselves. it affects the refugees, but also the common asylum policy and mutual trust. the dutch government will now resolve these violations by another unlawful measure by keeping family members separated for several years. if our treatment of refugees measures the shape our rule of law is in, it is in a deplorable state. so governments and commission, stop this race to the bottom. respect the right to asylum. share responsibility. make europe credible again.
madam president, dear president von der leyen, dear commissioners and dear colleagues, i want to start by praising the people of ukraine for their enduring bravery and commitment to freedom. the progress they have made shows our aid and assistance to ukraine is working. the eu must supply the weapons ukraine needs to keep that momentum. let us communicate directly to the people of europe about who is responsible for the cost of living crisis. madam president, the origin of high inflation points to one man. we have a ‘cost of putin’ crisis. his reckless actions have driven up everyday energy and food costs for households and businesses. in the short term, we must do what is necessary to limit the economic shock we are facing. europe’s small businesses cannot be left to pay unsustainable bills for the maniac in the kremlin. they are the backbone of our economy, madam president. so please make sure your proposals focus on them too. that is why renew europe has set out a plan for an energy shield and a food security strategy and act we must. however, let us be mindful of unintended consequences. remember that, ultimately, the market knows best how to allocate resources. reform the market? yes. disfigure the market? no, thank you. madam president, the extreme weather we have seen also this summer shows the importance of the green transition. we have the chance to transform our economy and deliver millions of new jobs by harnessing new technologies. a temporary end to this crisis is no justification to undermine the green deal. and, finally, on migration, we need to act, ms von der leyen, not only with arguments about the incentives of migration, but our citizens expect that we are in control of migration. and if a package approach doesn’t work, then we need to decouple and start with some important files like screening at external borders, strengthen also more our efforts on the external dimension. if we do not act, ms von der leyen, we will see more melonis on the european stage. and that is our common responsibility to prevent.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i have to start by saying that this is the best state of the union speech i've heard in this room in many years. but only in the part where there are quick and specific things to do, which you presented today, because in that part you said what needs to be done in this difficult situation, and try, i think, in that part not to take away from the many political views here. and thank you for that! this is the year of the eye, in which parts of europe were asleep in a cold sleep with their eyes wide shut. we have to open our eyes! you have to realize that things are different and you have to strengthen your pain threshold! for example, we set up the european energy union years ago. instead, we get a new pipeline to russia. and now a lot of people are hurting. and here i would like to say that your programme on energy markets seems acceptable, and i think that you should move quickly with these steps to the difficult negotiations with the member states and make sure that this does not interfere with the energy sector, of course, the single market, which is extremely important. we started building a strategic compass in ukraine before the war. but the war in ukraine - with the ukrainians based mainly on our transatlantic partners and its european neighbours - is, i think, forcing us to re-examine the direction of this compass. and nato's expansion in europe also proves where the safety needle is for this compass. so i would urge you and our own colleagues to focus on what is important and crucial. and let's not waste our energy on the unnecessary! (the president agreed to reply to the request for a blue card)
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. mr president, you said that your state of the union address was the best since you have been in this parliament, and yes, if i remember that the president-in-office has said 'should' and 'jews' many times, that is true. but as we speak, 25 million european citizens are on minimum wage and we cannot talk about the future and the 2030 and 2050 targets without knowing what we are doing now, because the pace at which decisions are taken from 'want' and 'need' to concrete action is very slow. we'll vote in october, a cold month already, a cold season. what do you think we should... (the president interrupts the speaker)... do to help citizens and smes?
blue-card reply. – i think i caught the point in english. so well, of course, there are difficulties and it was a very painful time. but while my group and also in my political view is always that everybody, all ruling bodies like governments and eu level should do their own work on this crisis situation. for example, i think most should be done to decrease this pain level by national governments and at the same time the european union level should take responsibilities to keep it in a balance in joint actions in the single market and energy problems and so on. that’s my ideal combination on how we can solve this crisis.
madam president of parliament, madam president von der leyen, i would first of all express our solidarity with ukraine and welcome this initiative to bring the first lady here as a symbol of our commitment to the ukrainian people, and i thank her very much for the work she is doing on the convention. the epp believes it is essential that we start designing the future of europe now so that we have a europe prepared for the challenges of the post-war period. and now i want to leave you with a very clear question: the european union has made a number of mistakes in its speech, and has repeatedly referred to the mistakes we have made in becoming energy dependent on russia, as there have been member states and the union itself which have not listened to the governments and the people of other states. because at the moment, with regard to the interconnections between the iberian peninsula and france, president macron refuses these interconnections. will the european commission be complicit? prime minister antónio costa, who follows president macron in everything, was unable to convince him of this. i ask: will the european union let france make the mistake that germany made when it made nord stream ii? are we gonna make the same mistake again now? we help ourselves to energy dependency when we have a great solution here. we have it in greece, we have it in italy, but we also have it in the iberian peninsula, to supply the european markets. the question i leave is: what will the european commission say to mr macron?
president, i say to president von der leyen: in your speech you mentioned that through trade policy we can not only strengthen our economy, but also promote shared values with like-minded countries . and one year ago you made the important announcement: the eu will put in place a ban on imports of goods made with forced labour. and i understand that the commission is now expected to publish its proposal for such a law in a couple of hours. could you confirm this? there are 50 million modern slaves in the world today and a majority of them work in the global value chains with often a european consumer at the end of the chain. we must do everything to make this legislation work, to ensure the eu or its companies are not complicit in supporting state-sponsored or other forced labour. and it’s very important that, when violations do happen, effective remedy to victims needs to take place. dear president finally, the report finally released by the un high commissioner for human rights, michelle bachelet, is yet another proof of horrendous abuses, including massive forced labour amounting to, at the very least, crimes against humanity in xinjiang. will you make sure that the eu enforces an effective regime alongside the us and our other global partners before even the conclusion of further trade agreements?
president. - i have heard in the last few days that more and more people are expecting a solution from the european union. i don't know if the translation will be able to convey this, but in english we have an expression for it: they go to confess to the devil. in our language, this is the expression of the victims throwing themselves into the arms of the person who caused their problems. a european union which has itself caused the inflationary explosion by almost doubling the money supply since the financial crisis. a european union that, with years of green deal hysteria, with the closure of nuclear power plants and the disruption of our energy supply, helped set off the energy price explosion itself, long before the russian invasion of ukraine was a fact. a european union which, with its reset concepts, its sustainable development and its 'building back better' nonsense, has started the de-industrialisation of our continent and the implosion of small business and of our agriculture. a european union which, with its forced mass immigration, has disrupted both our european culture and our social system. please, people, wake up. the european union is not the solution to our problems. she's one of our biggest problems.
president, mrs von der leyen, minister, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, we are talking today about the state of the european union, and the state of the european union is crisis, an energy crisis. for years this commission and this parliament have sabotaged nuclear energy and made our own fossil fuel production impossible. we had to and would have to rely on unreliable sun and wind. now, a cold winter is coming and russia is to blame. but any self-reflection is lacking. we are also in a crisis of purchasing power. the ecb's policy is driving double-digit inflation and the hard-earned money of ordinary savers into the wind. the european union has no solution. and in my view, all of this stems from a much larger crisis: a crisis of national sovereignty. because almost all the problems facing the european union today are caused by the euro-federalist ideology of this commission. european unification has become an end in itself. everything has to be green and woke. for this commission, the citizen is only a hindrance. in a union that would be all about trade, each country would be able to find its own solutions. what works for the netherlands does not necessarily work for portugal and vice versa, but in the eu that is no longer possible. the commission is increasingly taking power and governing by dictation. euro-federalism is taking us from one crisis to another. i can't do this anymore. it is high time for a return to a europe of sovereign states.
madam president, our european values are heavily under attack in hungary, the rapporteur made that crystal clear, and women, minorities and vulnerable people are the main targets. we get the media freedom act, a defend democracy act, but let’s use the tools that we already have in our toolbox to combat this autocratic regime. article 7, of course, but also no disbursement of rrf money until all requirements are fulfilled. use the conditionality mechanism for the total eu budget, including agricultural funds, where abuse and fraud as identified, and also include the migration and border management fund, as hungary refuses to implement european court judgments on asylum. it even proudly registered the numerous pushbacks conducted every year, and it silences the ngos who speak up against that. so civil society needs stronger support. so, commissioner, hungary may promise changes, but i urge you and the council to stay strong until the independence of the judiciary, freedom of media, academic freedom, anti—corruption legislation and compliance with judgments is fully restored. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – the whole problem, dear colleague, is actually that the institutions in hungary are not independent, so their assessment of the situation cannot be taken for granted. i think the rapporteur has reported everything and this is not an own personal judgement alone, this is founded by many independent institutions making clear that hungary has turned into an autocratic regime with a lack of independence of the judiciary, a lack of independence of media, a lack of academic freedom, and a civil society that does not, cannot, is not able to speak up. there’s a lack of checks and balances and therefore we need to make the maximum use of the tools that we have because autocratic regimes do not fit in the eu.
my fellow citizens! i would ask that certain members not be suspended, and i remind you that our rules of procedure contain paragraph 173 on so-called personal statements.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting a report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. the years 2020-2021. and i'm sure that for anyone who lived in europe during those two years, it should be very clear what topics should definitely be in it. and i'm going to name four. first, with a dash on one, the introduction of a qr code. in this way, the european public authorities have made institutional discrimination possible. millions of citizens were denied access to essential parts of society thanks to that qr code. maybe something about the months-long lockdowns for everyone, with austria making vaccines mandatory and wanting to lock up and fine those who refuse? or maybe something about italy, where employees were going to lose their jobs if people didn't get vaccinated? and i can go on like this for a while. but it is quite incredible, because in this whole 46-page document these things are not mentioned. i counted some words. qr code is mentioned zero times, lockdown is mentioned three times, vaccine is mentioned once and then in the context of anti-vaccine propaganda. and what does the report say? where are the centers of gravity? well, my predecessors have mentioned that here, too. roma is mentioned 38 times, lhbti 39 times, and today the winner is gender. there is no report going out the door - so to speak - in the european parliament, where the word 'gender' does not appear a few times on every page. is this a report or is it a money-laundering operation to cover up the gross violations of the past two years? i think it's the fantasy account that george orwell could laugh at. i think that everyone who votes for this report is complicit in falsifying history.
president, ladies and gentlemen, human rights are based on core issues such as 'human dignity' and 'equal opportunities'. but the conversation about it is becoming more and more defined and narrowed down to "me, me and me". for example, people say: i decide whether to terminate a pregnancy, and no one, but no one, should restrict me in that freedom. meanwhile, we risk forgetting that we are human beings with a mission. created to care for each other. because i ask you: what is there worth in ending unborn life? and where do you see the equal opportunities when in one hospital a premature baby is fighting for its life and in the clinic a few blocks away a baby is aborted? we are on the fast track to elevating the right to self-determination above all else at the expense of the most vulnerable, and that is a slippery, slippery path.
- i'm the reporter. president, ladies and gentlemen, as a politician, but above all as a father, i consider it my duty and responsibility to do everything possible to give our children a better world. and that mission seems bigger today than ever. our way of life on this piece of earth is under pressure. but i believe we can do it as the european union, if we start thinking more strategically, if we start focusing more on the long term and if we start working together much better. and that is the heart of this report. today the european parliament is backing a strategic and green industrial policy. we need to think much more strategically in the european union. the dependence of other parts of the world on medicines and medical devices during the coronavirus crisis is not in our interest. the dependence on russian gas, the dependence that putin is using today as a weapon against us, is not in our interest. and the great dependence we have on other parts of the world for chips, batteries and solar panels, essential components of our economy of the future, is not in our interest. our share of the global chip market has gone from 25 percent to 10 percent. sixty percent of the lithium we need for our batteries comes from china. and of the top ten solar panel manufacturers, seven are chinese and none are european. we'll also have to be less naive. leaving chinese scanning equipment in our border security, chinese equipment in 5g networks and critical technology to flow through joint ventures in china, that's not in our interest. and let's not make the same mistake with china that we made with russia. our dependence is too great and it can be used against us. we need to strengthen our strategic sectors. and strategic thinking also means that research and innovation are crucial. as long as we are inventing and developing things that make the rest of the world dependent on us, we are stronger or we are stronger at the geopolitical negotiating table so that we too can get what we need. mr president, i mentioned green as well as strategic. today the european parliament is sending the message that we want to keep our companies in europe and that we want to help them grow into the most sustainable and competitive companies in the world, so that we produce in europe in a clean way the products we need in our economy of tomorrow and that we also keep jobs in europe. that means a reliable government providing energy infrastructure, renewable energy, and protecting european companies where necessary. strategic and green industrial policy, together we can do it. this report appeals to everyone: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. everyone has a responsibility in our common interest. in europe we will never see the private investment we see in the united states. we will also never see the amount of state aid that china is investing in their strategic sectors. no, the weapon of the european union is cooperation. we already see examples of the power of european collaboration in, for example, cern, airbus, and also in european regions. in brabant, where i come from, brainport eindhoven is developing into a world-class high-tech manufacturing player through close cooperation between companies, knowledge institutes and governments, of strategic importance for the netherlands and europe. we're going to think more strategically, we're going to be more long-term, and we're going to be more collaborative. only in this way can we preserve the prosperity and security of our continent and pass it on to future generations.
rapporteur. – madam president, my thanks to colleagues for the debate and i also want to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups for the intense discussions we had. but in the end, we found each other. we have a broad majority for the call for a clean, competitive and resilient european industry, and that we need to be more strategic. and there are some clear messages in our reports to the commission. there cannot be a green deal without industry policy. if we want to deliver on the growth strategy that the green deal promised, we need industry policy, and the clear message we have for the commission is, come forward with the transition pathways of the industrial ecosystems. give us the pathways that show what is needed in the sectors for the energy transition, for remaining competitive, for what kind of breakthrough technologies are needed, how the regulatory burden on the ecosystems is. and we really call on the commission to come to parliament with these pathways and then have also an annual debate on where we are on these pathways so that we can monitor where we are with the sectors, because industry policy, in the end, is also about adapting measures that seem to work or seem not to work and making sure that we act swiftly, that our european industry will become more resilient, it will become more competitive on the pathway we have. so for us, as parliament, this report is not necessarily an end of the process after reacting to your various industry strategies. we need to stop updating the industry strategy all the time. we need to have an annual debate on the pathways of our ecosystems. for us, this is not the end of the process, it’s the start of cooperation between us and you to make sure that our industry will thrive, that we achieve the goals we set in the green deal but that we do that with a competitive and clean and resilient industry. so thank you very much, i’m looking forward to the cooperation.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – madam president, dear colleagues. i would like to comment in particular on procurement, which is within the imco remit. i welcome the provisions where our imco opinion was improved in a practical way. for example, the eu-exclusive procurement, meaning that countries would not be able to negotiate with different manufacturers in parallel. for this issue, a great compromise was found, which is that only after assessment it is decided if it is an eu-exclusive procurement. and this makes sense, since the eu exclusive procurement would be beneficial regarding counter-measures involving plenty of options on the market, for example with tests, but would not be beneficial for other measures where there might be a shortage, for example with vaccines. looking at the final text, although we certainly did not get everything we wanted from the greens efa and imco side, i still welcome this regulation which will surely contribute to strengthening the union's coordinated response to public health emergencies.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be a matter of the member states. keep your promise. i 've got it in black and white here: i have a letter from mrs von der leyen. a year ago she wrote to me i'll leave a copy with you : honourable member ruissen, the reappointment of the eu envoy for religious freedom has my full attention. but there followed a third year, without an eu envoy in fact. the fact that this reappointment has not taken place is the reason for this debate, as you will understand. you are not only disappointing me and many colleagues in this house with your insolence, but you are also leaving millions of oppressed believers in the cold! religious persecution is alive and well and even increasing: blasphemy laws in pakistan, anti-conversion laws in india, re-education camps in china, massacres in nigeria. today, 360 million christians in fifty countries are experiencing very severe to extreme forms of persecution. you can't let all that go unnoticed. i ask you: is the eu a community of values or just words? so my appeal is: name that envoy who's going to speak to governments around the world about religious freedom. provide enough manpower and budget. do what you promise!
mr president, i am worried about the world cup in qatar. i'm not talking about whether or not we should boycott the world cup. i would then like to talk about how we can compensate the exploited migrant workers in qatar. i get very angry when i hear people talking about that question, because right now i see mostly people pointing at each other. national associations point to fifa, fifa then points to qatar, and then qatar says, oh, but so much has been improved!, and in the end, nothing happens for the victims and their families. i have a feeling we're almost more busy with the blame issue right now than with the victims themselves. it is not that complicated, because european companies that have turned a blind eye to qatar are the ones who have to pay the price. what about the european governments? they must put pressure on qatar, including the dutch government. they shouldn't be doing that from the skybox at a football game. european football associations, they should put pressure on fifa. and not even close. what about national unions? they should not be doing this out of guilt, but out of respect for the victims themselves. i am very much afraid that the caravan will have passed by so soon and that the people who literally built a party for us will still be standing empty-handed!
executive vice-president of the commission. – honourable members, it is a pleasure to be here to take part and to witness the conclusion of the legislative procedure when it comes to the common charger for portable electronic devices. the common charger will simplify the lives of europeans. no more obsolete chargers piling up in drawers, reducing costs for european citizens; no need to buy a charger for each device. and this will represent savings of at least eur 250 million annually. last but not least, it will contribute to the reduction of more than a thousand tonnes of e-waste every year. please allow me to thank the entire european parliament and in particular, of course, the rapporteur agius saliba of the committee for the support, the tremendous work done which allowed us to finalise the process within just nine months in total. the enlargement of the scope of this initiative, as proposed by the european parliament, i think was well done. it has increased the cover to the broadest possible range of what we call ‘radio equipment’ and even increase the expected benefits for eu citizens and, of course, the environment. and for this reason, i really welcome what was edited: adding e-readers, keyboards, computer mice, portable navigation systems, earbuds, laptops to the scope of devices concerned. and the scope already included quite a range: handheld mobile phones, tablets, digital cameras, headphones, headsets, handheld video game consoles and portable speakers. so it is a lot. but the parliament has also agreed to a transition period of 24 months after the entry into force for all devices and 14 months for laptops. because these transition periods also allows for manufacturers to adjust their supply chains, to adapt to the legislation. and these important texts that have been developed together are not, however, the end of the story. no, we will need to monitor the evolution of charging technologies. we will look at whether or not there is a need to improve consumer convenience, save costs, improve environmental performance. that will allow us to consider extending the scope of devices covered if justified, addressing wireless charging technologies, but also assessing possible further unbundling of charging cables. to conclude, i want to thank the parliament for its commitment to achieve this common charger. i think it is a very good demonstration of the parliament’s attachment to make things simpler. also the relationship between products, consumers and the environment, and that is indeed needed. i hope this is a token of more to come because we are looking forward to future steps and, together with parliament, continuing to improve our everyday life and, of course, our environment, while still allowing new technologies to develop.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, alex, colleagues, the main motivation for the adoption of this legislation is to make life easier for millions of european users of electronic devices, not just mobile phones. we've waited long enough for the market to regulate itself. now is the time to act. i'm happy that after the abolition of roaming charges in the european union we will vote on the single charger. with this act, the european parliament has once again demonstrated its ability to respond to citizens' needs and to make their daily lives easier. i thank the rapporteur, mr alex aliva, all the colleagues with whom we have worked on this dossier, and the commission. thank you for the fact that, by working together, we have been able to extend the scope of this act. i'm not going to repeat what my colleagues said about what devices we're talking about. this is a huge achievement for the european union. it creates convenience and saves money for citizens, while benefiting the environment by reducing the generation of e-waste. at the same time, we're not stopping scientific and technological progress, and we're going to be regularly taking stock and adapting the technology, including the one wireless charger that alex mentioned earlier. we will also look at the possibilities of introducing the single charger for many other areas of the home and household, wherever there are no technical restrictions on the use of the single charger. let's also not forget that by this act we are also setting a standard for the world. i'm pretty sure that many other parts of the world will follow our act, so again the european union is leading the way. with this legislation, we give consumers freedom. they will have the opportunity to choose whether to buy a product with or without a charger. finally, and not least, labels on packaging for devices will be simple and clear enough for citizens to be informed of exactly what they are getting. thank you all again. i think it's a very good day for european consumers.
on behalf of the s&d club. honourable chair, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank our rapporteur alex, who fought to make this proposal more relevant to citizens than to producers. the fact is that after more than ten years we are introducing a single charger and that is mainly thanks to the meps who pushed this idea in the interest of the citizens even when no one wanted to hear it. my first debate on this topic was in 2013 when croatia just entered the european parliament. according to my survey, as many as 92.9% of croatian citizens support the introduction of a single charger for small devices. it's nice to keep a promise, even if it takes a long time. in the fall of 2024, phones, headphones, keyboards, tablets, navigation systems, mice, digital cameras, speakers, e-readers and portable game consoles will all have the same charger. and then it's going to be laptop and other devices. since each of us has a drawer full of chargers at home, and there are over 30 types of chargers for mobile phones alone on the market, the eu market, this proposal will bring big savings. it's estimated that we spend over two billion euros a year on new chargers. this way we'll have a choice and a chance to save. we need to ensure that both producers and retailers maintain the different options available to consumers. each year, more than 400 million small chargers are sold in the european union, and more than 11 tonnes of electronic waste is thrown away. we can't spend and throw away like we have three planets at our disposal. this proposal is a major contribution to more sustainable consumption and will help the health of our planet. i call on all of you to vote in favor of this bill for the benefit of consumers and the environment.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, one could say, ‘one charger? big deal!’, but this one will positively mark our everyday life. because big projects like the common market consist of small bricks, sometimes very important bricks. and this one common charger is one such important element of our common market. as we all know, it was not easy. it took some time. i also campaigned for this common charger for many years. now finally we have it. we achieved a solution which will facilitate consumers’ lives, and it will help the environment. so it is time for thanks. first, commissioner thierry breton, who demonstrated political courage and came up with a legislative proposal after many years of the commission being too patient with it equipment manufacturers. the commission followed calls coming from us, from the european parliament and from the european citizens: thank you. thank you to alex saliba and the other colleagues – other shadows, especially – who cooperated on this big project, which is one of the bricks of the common market. big thanks for working together so well and helping make the proposal of the commission even more ambitious. we managed to expand its scope and cover more almost twice as many product categories as were initially proposed. and now the common charger will really have an impact on the comfort of our lives, and what is probably most important to me and millions of other citizens is that we will decrease the use of raw materials. there will be less e-waste, i think, by thousands, if not millions of tonnes, and we will give our fellow citizens a chance – which you also underlined – to choose whether you want to buy a new device with a charger or without a charger. and this we always enjoy – choice. so enjoy, and thank you!
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! europeans have more and more portable electronic devices in their homes, pockets or backpacks. it's not just smartphones anymore, but it's tablets, e-book readers, and laptops. the standardisation of charging standards will make them easier to use, cheaper and will reduce the generation of e-waste and the use of rare metals. the ecr group has supported this project from the outset and has supported the expansion of the list of devices that will be equipped with a usb-c socket. we also pointed out that consumers need to be properly informed that a common charging port does not mean that the same charger will be perfect for every device. the graphic design system we are proposing, which the commission is to design, will help to purchase the charger that best suits our needs. we also wanted to give customers the option of buying a new device with or without a charger for as long as possible. we also understand that research into more efficient charging technologies, including wireless charging, must continue and we expect the commission to monitor and support innovation in this area. and congressman alex salib deserves a very special thank you.
for the group the left. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that we now finally have the opportunity to bring the fight for uniform chargers for mobile phones and many other electronic devices to an end. and it certainly wasn't a short fight. for more than a decade, we have been trying to push the commission to take action and come up with a proposal for the introduction of single chargers from the european parliament. eight years ago, in 2014, we adopted the radio equipment directive, in which we called on the commission to introduce single chargers by means of a delegated act, but until recently the commission has been inactive in this regard. but the problem of different chargers for different electronic devices is one we all face. our homes then accumulate chargers, most of which are designed for their specific device. and that's not only opaque, but it's also unnecessarily expensive for consumers and really very unfriendly to the environment. if the commission really cares about the environment, the steps to introduce a single charger should have been taken long ago. why, then, has she only recently come to grips with the problem? was she afraid to stand up to the interests of companies like apple or amazon? was she afraid of facing possible opposition to the government of former president of the united states of america, donald trump? i would like to remind you that the commission is supposed to defend the interests of the union, not the us government or multinational corporations. and i very much hope that from now on the commission will have a backbone and will no longer be afraid to really start defending the interests of the people who live in the union. yes, i think the ambition contained in the draft directive could have been higher. it could have been applied to many more devices. yet the adoption and standardization of the usb-c standard in two years is a really important step in reducing electronic waste and will undoubtedly lead to an easier life for all of us. as a shadow rapporteur, i therefore hope that the directive will be adopted, and i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for his work.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a common charging cable for small electrical appliances in the european union is certainly good news. it is good news because the uniformity or standardization of technical standards can concentrate competition on the places where the citizens, the users, benefit the most and where we can simultaneously generate all the positive side effects already described. i am very pleased that our colleague, mr toine manders, who had the idea back in 2009 when mrs weiler was presenting her report, is here today. it is important that we are prepared to enforce technical standards even if they are initially criticised in industry and in business. we did this with the gsm standard in europe 20 years ago, 30 years ago, when we actually organized competition in the telecommunications market through the devices and not through the standards, as was the case in the united states at that time. unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the telecommunications market in europe has lost a great deal since then. it is therefore important that we think about how we can get there more competition and also more attractive markets. the report we are debating today is certainly an important element in this. so, thank you very much to all those who support him.
madam chairman! i'm not going to tell you. we've been talking about it for a long time, as we just heard. in fact, almost as long as i've been a member of this house. but now it's finally happening: we're getting this common charger for our electronic devices, and i think we can be proud of that. i think we've all been in that very frustrating situation; the cell phone ran out of power, and the charger jack we borrowed didn't fit. or when we're traveling, and we're struggling to find space for our cell phone chargers, our headphones, our camera, our laptops, our tablets, and so on. an endless jungle of charging plugs and cables. we're gonna put an end to this. lightning or usb b, or whatever the different charging connectors are called, is being replaced by a single charger type in the form of usb c. and consumers will be able to choose for themselves whether they want to buy a new product with or without a charger. so life is getting easier, and it's good for the environment, and it's good for our wallets. a common charger will not only reduce our ecological footprint, it will also save consumers money. more specifically - we heard this earlier today - we will reduce our electronic waste by about 11 000 tonnes a year, while consumers will save in the region of eur 250 million a year. money that could be used to fill other holes in the household budget. so the legislation we have here is a win-win. the only people who are losing out on this are the greedy companies that have been allowed to capitalize on the many different chargers for too long. i would also like to thank our rapporteur, mr alex saliba, for this. it is a fantastic job you have done and i am convinced that the legislation will serve both the environment and the consumers very well.
madam president, we made it after many years of memorandums of understanding, after years of asking the commission to act, we made it. the common charger is an example of the european union making people’s lives easier: no more searching for the right cable, while also protecting the planet from unnecessary electronic waste. consumers will have a choice: the choice to buy a new device with or without a charger. more consumer choice should always be our goal. at the same time, our decision today should not prevent future innovation. usb-c is the most efficient form of charger today, but usb-d may come tomorrow, or a new wireless standard. european legislation needs to dynamically adapt and not stifle innovation, so the commission must ensure that we amend this legislation as soon as technological developments merit it. this is good progress today, but let’s make sure it doesn’t hold us back in the future.
madam president, dear colleagues, commissioner, finally, after more than 10 years of waiting for codes of conduct and goodwill of businesses, we are now setting a standard for a common charger in the eu. today, finally, we are putting the interests of the environment and consumers above the interests of big tech companies through solid legislation. this achievement shows that we as the eu can set standards for a sustainable digital future. so why not make sure that the whole digital transition is sustainable from the start? to my colleagues here and to the commission: we do not have another 10 years to wait for voluntary agreements until we realise that we need clear environmental standards for electronic devices or, for example, data centres. we are in a climate crisis. we need to steer the digital transition to truly twin the green transition and make sure it doesn’t harm people, but benefits them and the environment from the start.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, please bring the battery chargers into line. the commission is proposing to simplify and standardize the lives of our citizens. but the fact remains: 13 years is unacceptable for the simple connector. we must deal with the plug, but we must deal above all with the emergency that our country, our europe, has, which is the expensive bills. that's the real issue, otherwise people today would be asking: but is europe's priority to deal with the connector? europe's priority must be to deal with the connector, but without forgetting that we cannot start from the chimney and forget the foundations. it is therefore essential that europe gives concrete and immediate answers to the plight of the 57% of italians who are having difficulty paying an electricity bill. you think a florist turned in an electric bill this morning: from eur 383 to eur 1 200! you understand that any family, any business is at risk of closure in this situation. we have 3 000 firms in italy at risk of closure and 3 million jobs at risk of being lost. we have a northern italy, which is the locomotive of our country, which is really in danger of bringing important business activities and important business offices, such as this one at a florist, to a halt, which we must avoid at all costs. so welcome to the activity that has made itself unacceptable in 13 years. we cannot expect to provide answers to the costly energy bills and energy bills in 13 years for our europe and our country.
madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, today is a historic day for consumers in the european union. we will no longer need to experience hassle whether we forget our charger or upgrade our phone. the introduction of a common charger will not only lower costs, but also improve the safety and interoperability of chargers and reduce electronic waste. i welcome the outcome of the negotiations, which focuses on a particular list of consumer devices such as mobile phones and portable gaming devices, whilst avoiding hampering innovation and the development of new solutions for consumers. while today we are celebrating the common wired charger, let us not forget about the future. i believe the commission should only use its powers where market solutions cannot be delivered. it is key that we leave enough space for entrepreneurs to deliver new consumer technologies that will improve our digital experience beyond what is known today.
madam president, the importance of digitalisation is growing, and with it the importance of the devices we use every day. whether it's cell phones, laptops, or speakers. we all know them, and we all know the charging devices that are out of order. these devices must serve and make people's lives easier. that is why this proposal is so important and why i am glad that i was at the origin of this initiative. it is important that digital devices serve people, to make people's lives easier when they use them. it is important that we reduce costs, it is important that we improve environmental protection, and all of this is provided by this proposal. as we know, we can save over 11,000 tons of electronic waste a year. it is good news that the scope of this regulation extends to laptops, which was a proposal of the european parliament from the outset. the good news is that in two years, we'll have a unified usb-c charger, and the good news is that every five years, the technology will be reviewed. the single terminal does not imply a limitation of wireless charging. clearly, wireless charging is a worldwide trend and it's going to continue, but at the same time, of course, we all know that the need for wired connectivity is going to be here for a while. this proposal is therefore necessary and crucial, in particular to make it easier to work with computer technology, to save money and, of course, to improve environmental protection. ladies and gentlemen, i'm sure that this is the measure that is setting the global trend. thank you all for supporting this initiative.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the single charger will soon become a reality not only for mobile phones but also for laptops, e-book readers, earphones, cameras and other devices, which we will no longer have to buy with the cable, and we will then have several unused chargers in the house. a seemingly small improvement in the daily lives of individual consumers, but one that will lead to annual savings of eur 250 million at european level. it's a big step forward from a sustainability standpoint. we think that the reduction in e-waste is estimated to be around 1,000 tons a year. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr alex saliba, on the excellent results achieved in a very short time, which show that when clear and concrete proposals are put forward, even in limited areas, europe is able to stand up to the big companies and large companies in pursuit of a common goal, namely to improve people's lives step by step.
madam president, madam vice-president margrethe vestager, dear rapporteur agius saliba, thank you for your excellent work. finally, common sense, finally, consistency, finally, a practical solution! this is proof that when the union wants to, it can. first of all, the common charger is clearly a common sense choice: 84% of consumers have problems with phone chargers, and the cost of this mess and confusion is enormous - not to mention the electronic waste, 11,000 to 13,000 tons of electronic waste produced per year. secondly, our choice is a coherent one: consistent with our desire to create a sustainable single market for consumers and producers, consistent with our circular economy strategy, consistent also with our desire and effort to affirm a real freedom of choice for consumers. we are making our products more sustainable, encouraging reuse, saving resources and co2 while enabling technological innovation, ensuring greater transparency and better information, and thus making life easier for consumers. finally, the europe we want is the europe we want, a europe of concrete solutions, which multiplies opportunities for all european citizens. these rules on common carriers represent a clear victory for all of us.
madam chair, like probably all of us, i too warmly welcome this agreement. it is important that consumer rights and environmental considerations trump commercial interests at least some of the time. there could be no justification for one company to insist on a different charger for its devices. that situation simply costs consumers money and led to unnecessary electronic waste. this standardisation is expected to save consumers in the region of a quarter of billion euros, which would be welcome news to many feeling the impacts of the current cost of living crisis. it is not revolutionary, just plain common sense. anything that protects consumers, the environment and saves money is always welcome. more of this, please, brussels. i commend the work of the european parliament in widening the scope so that eventually laptops, e-readers, earphones, keyboards and a multitude of other electronic devices will work off a single common charger. we may have to come back here to tackle the issue of unbundling and wireless charging, but this is still a good day for consumers and the environment.
madam president, a common charger for portable electronic products is a good news story. why? because it is a practical intervention by the european union that empowers consumers while also doing something positive for the environment by reducing electronic waste and indeed the pressure on scarce sustainable resources. having so many different types of chargers for our various devices is, as we know, very frustrating for consumers and it isn’t good for the environment. consumers are always at the end of the line. they have felt frustration. now today is a positive moment for them, where they can know they can have one single charger for frequently used small and medium portable electronic devices. charging speeds will be harmonised for devices that support fast charging, and buyers can choose whether to purchase new devices with or without a charging device. so it’s an important development. it’s been 10 years in the making and i thank all those who have brought us to this point. it’s also an important element for our single market. the objectives of this directive would not be achieved if member states were acting alone. that would lead to different requirements in each member state, again making it frustrating for our consumers, but now the barriers in the single market are being reduced – administrative barriers for manufacturers, which of course will help the competitiveness of european industries. but most importantly, today is a very good day for the consumers, for european consumers, who know that they need one charger for all those small portable electronic devices.
madam president, commissioner, we all know the cable spaghetti creeping through our bags. while they are very often consisting of a lot of different chargers, this is not just a waste of money, it’s also a waste of raw materials and it’s creating piles of electronic waste. we tried to actually regulate that much earlier already in 2009. but whenever we try to regulate something, we see industry coming up with, ‘okay, we understand, let’s have some voluntary measurements’. well, most of the time voluntary measurements just don’t work because it’s the business of businesses to earn money and not to have good, let’s say, environmental friendly and consumer friendly product designs. so, let’s not be naive, by regulating now common chargers across the european union, we’re serving the climate, we’re serving consumers, and we are ending the differences of chargers. so we’re putting in place common chargers until the end of 2024, for laptops – and thank you for that compromise – until 2026. here's industry. this is the european parliament. we stand on the side of consumers.
mr. president, the bullet has finally passed through the church! there will be clear legislation for a universal charger. we have indeed waited a long time for that. the commission has taken a long time to implement the wishes of the european parliament. i am thinking, for example, very specifically of the amendment tabled by mr manders in 2009. certainly some of the business community were not initially in favour of this, for reasons of self-interest. we must, however, note that the voluntary initiatives have not produced the desired result. with the standardisation of the charger, we are making it easier for consumers to use, reducing e-waste and tackling market fragmentation in the european union. that is why it is so important that we in the european parliament today say yes to the outcome of the trialogue. equal standards are essential for the proper functioning of the internal market. this is an important added value for european cooperation, and the directive on a universal charger for electronic devices is a very good example of this!
madam president, council, commissioner, the conditionality regulation is now put to the test. is it fit for purpose, are the institutions willing to use it? i urge the commission to pass this test in assuring that hungary reverses its deep and systemic rule-of-law flaws and that it ends the corruption and the captured judiciary. as the commission rightly stated itself, you can’t protect the eu budget without an independent judiciary. the 17 measures cannot solve this rule-of-law crisis, because how can a new integrity body be effective in a dysfunctional system? and how can the improved rules and prosecution be adjudicated fairly by captured courts? commissioner, we urge you: be strict and steadfast, progress on paper and on limited issues are not enough. we need a systematic change and the commission to enforce it. giving in too quickly will render our most precious tool toothless. the rule of law and, therefore, our european values are non-negotiable. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – i didn’t speak about eppo. i agree with the previous speaker, so it’s good that he brought this up. there are indeed a few other member states, and especially while there are so many corruption cases in hungary, and if hungary really wants to show it’s working on an independent system and fighting corruption, it would be better to seek cooperation with the eppo because that would give much more trust than we can have at the moment.
mr president, since the murder of kurdish mahsa (jina) amini, 92 people have died in iran. only because a brave woman stood for her individual choice. and the individual choice of women in iran is at stake. and all these women have fathers, just like mahsa (jina) amini had a father – a man. and i’ve been thinking of what’s been going on in his mind. did i protect my daughter enough? did i give enough resistance as a man in iran to the morality police? is this because of a piece of fabric and her identity that i lost my daughter? what if all fathers stood up against oppressors of our daughters? questions like these will continuously go through their minds in iran. and only when these fathers, together with the strong women in iran, stand up, they can change the regime of iran. commissioner, we are always clear about what we are against, but let’s also be clear on what we stand for. these strong women currently in danger need a safe haven. and therefore, i’m asking the commission to investigate whether europe can offer this to them.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, so i think by now a lot of us already had access to a glass of water. we have bottles with water. and for us, it’s very easy to access water. for us it’s very common to just drink water whenever we want, whenever we feel like it. but for so many people in the world this is not a guarantee. they do not have access to even this glass of water. and this is why i find it very important, also as an sdg ambassador myself for clean water, for sdg 6, to have this debate and to have this discussion because in the first place we need to have a mentality change on how we treat water and how we are going to work together in the world when it comes to access to water. even here in europe water scarcity is a problem, is an issue – name for example, italy, spain, portugal. it’s not something that only happens outside the eu, outside europe. so we need to be very much aware of how this is going to affect the whole world when it comes to water scarcity. access to water is a human right, and that’s the new discussion we need to have. and that’s something that we don’t realise a lot still. and i think that the private and the public sector should work together, should work together on how they can generate and create more innovation technology to make sure that access to water stays a human right. when it comes to the gender dimension, so many girls and women don’t have access to water. and it is very important that we also have this emphasis in a debate making sure that human rights, when it comes to gender, when it comes to women and girls, when it comes to indigenous people, are being discussed and emphasised in this discussion. thank you very much, and it’s very important that we are going to cooperate in the world, together with our partners, to make sure that access to water is a human right.
mr. speaker, anti-democratic parties are deliberately spreading disinformation online: the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism, and it has been a major player in the fight against terrorism in ukraine, to sow confusion and break morale, but also in the rest of europe to divide our society and undermine democracies. big tech's algorithms and revenue models are good at extreme content like hate and disinformation. pro-russian forces are using this against us. just last week, eu disinfolab uncovered a massive pro-russian disinformation operation using bots and paid ads that earned facebook over a ton of money. so we're being pulled deeper and deeper into a bubble of extremism, endangering our security, while big tech is getting rich off the back of it. the solution is simple: we need to tackle big tech and get rid of personal, polarizing algorithms. but any decisive action to stop them is going too far for the european commission and the right-wing parties. we can no longer stand by and watch this system facilitate putin and the erosion of our democracy. it's time to intervene.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, it is in the common interest of the eu to have all member states be the schengen area. and, therefore, we welcome today’s discussion to overcome the current two-tier system and bring in member states that are still in the waiting room and, thus, lift the unequal treatment of citizens of the eu. yet, accession to the schengen area is not a right, it’s a responsibility as well. it means carrying out the schengen acquis in full compliance with fundamental rights. and this is where we still have some serious concerns. in the past years there has been mounting evidence of systematic pushbacks and border violence in bulgaria as well as romania. human rights watch reports that bulgarian authorities were beating, robbing, stripping and using police dogs on asylum seekers and migrants as they pushed them back to turkey. in romania, uniformed border guards were seen pushing back people to serbia. allowing schengen accession in the face of such reports de facto also means condoning these grave violations of the rights of migrants and refugees. but my group, let me be clear, my group urges for a merit-based, objective decision on a schengen accession for both countries. so i call upon all member states to do the same: assess the merits, take the schengen standards seriously, but don’t mix it up with other more political considerations just only because you can, because you have a veto. and if bulgaria agrees with this position, it has to act consistently and stop using its veto during the accession process of north macedonia to the eu. so, president, schengen can only remain the jewel in the crown if we all live up to the standards of schengen before, but also after the accession.
mr president, (off-mic) ... ethiopia, and it was terrible, terrible to see how women are being used as a weapon of war. you often hear about it, but now we could really hear about it, see it, and we could really speak to these women. and the situation is so bad. and often we see in war and in conflict that women and girls are being used as a weapon of war. and this is why this situation needs to stop right away. and it’s very important that the european union assist and help also the women that are in danger. their lives are at stake and we need to make sure how we can offer them essential services, how we can make sure that they have access to contraception and sohr because their lives are at risk and this is about the perspective of many women living in ethiopia. so please make sure that we have services available, that we have assistance available, so that we have shelters for these vulnerable women and so that we have access to health care for these women. this is where we can now right away help women and girls in danger in ethiopia. and this is what it really needs to be about right now, because this is about a future generation that will grow up with so many traumas, with so many problems. and i just hope that the european union can assist in it right away.
- a writer. mr president, look! says my friend, and she shows me this certificate. it says: "you are not a fraudster" and an apology is offered. she had to adjust her dreams because she was in conflict with a system that stripped her of her human dignity. and now a certificate, but the repair process is stalled. i'm relieved we're finally discussing the impact of the allowance issue here. i know that the questions i am about to put to you will make you uncomfortable, commissioner, but i ask you to give a worthy answer in the interest of your european duty of care. what has the commission done about this clear violation of the fundamental rights of eu citizens which justifies the initiation of the infringement procedure? how has the commission dealt with this issue in the light of the eu action plan against racism and its recognition of structural racism? how will the commission monitor the process of compensation and legal assistance for victims? now i know that the commission may say that this is the competence of the member state, but this way of violating fundamental rights also affects international law, especially given the fact that the dutch tax authorities did not comply with laws. how does this fit into a rule of law and how can it be without consequences, commissioner? the dutch tax authorities used algorithms as part of risk profiling to detect fraud. but this system was a bust. tens of thousands of parents lost their jobs, their possessions, their future prospects, and their debts. and those parents were denied the opportunity to give full and devoted care to their children. thousands of children. we must make europe aware of this. when systems take over, the human dimension is lost. the algorithm selected mostly parents with non-western backgrounds. this is institutional racism and has been fully recognized by the dutch government. i therefore call for a moratorium on the use of this method of profiling. commissioner, please ensure that this practice is stopped immediately, otherwise i can guarantee you that the dutch surcharge affair is not a stand-alone affair in europe. so take your responsibility in this, for a new generation in europe.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97). i mean , imagine this . a tax authority is given the mandate by the government to crack down on fraud, and this must be done as efficiently as possible through automation. the irs says that the most efficient way to deal with people with low income or immigrant backgrounds is to target them. on this basis, the service decides to build such an algorithm. and this algorithm does exactly what it's supposed to do. it finds so-called fraudsters, especially those with an immigrant background or low income. the dutch government destroyed the lives of 70,000 children and their parents. no one could explain to their parents what was going on or why certain decisions were made. officials blindly followed the computers, because algorithms will be right. a key lesson from the subsidy scandal is that digitisation without standards and rules can have life-threatening consequences. fortunately, we in europe see this. with the world's first ai law, i want to make sure that there can never be another surcharge affair, but then we have to dare to go through. as a negotiator for the ai regulation, i am committed to strengthening human rights in the use of algorithms. we need to ban the use of algorithms to label people as criminals or fraudsters based on their personal data. we need to make sure that systems don't discriminate. we need to put in place a human rights test, so that there's a mandatory look at how we use algorithms. people deserve transparency, and systems need to be designed so that we can see what's wrong. and people should never, ever again be allowed to stand empty-handed in front of a computer, with a strong right to explanation and mandatory human oversight. let us learn from this terrible scandal and intervene now with ambitious rules.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again the government of a member state of the european union is at the centre of a scandal. illegal interest-taking seems to have become a common practice among a large caste of political leaders who believe themselves to be above the law and are invested with an almost religious ideology. at the same time, the contempt of the people grew. men are reduced to being interchangeable variables of production and consumption. while the eu is so quick to criticize, even condemn those who are stubbornly resistant to its immigrationist ideology or its 'woke' imperialism. strangely enough, when it comes to one of his own, there is deafening silence in the corridors and press rooms of these pompous institutions. when fundamental rights are interpreted in terms of the quality of the individual, when the function of elected institutions and the legitimate representatives of the people is limited to commenting on decisions taken in offices with doors sealed and soundproofed, democracy is threatened. the people are not fooled by this façade democracy. hungary, sweden and italy are all recent examples of peoples around us who have launched a democratic uprising against the imperialist caste in brussels and their accomplices in national parliaments. the europe of tomorrow will be the europe of free peoples and sovereign nations. we are living in the change of this time, so exciting that no totalitarian temptation can stop it.
the european parliament is regularly discussing the rule of law, the functioning of the rule of law. according to self-proclaimed eu convert and vvd prime minister mark rutte, the eu is not only a market but also a community of values. the prime minister is often at the forefront of criticism of poland and hungary. but today we are talking about the rule of law, about the netherlands, about the allowance issue. we in ja21 congratulate d66 as the ruling party and the labour party as the responsible former ruling party for having the courage in the european parliament to call their own leaders and party members to account. the allowance affair is a stain on the history of the dutch rule of law. in a kafkaesque way, dutch families have been financially ruined by their own tax authorities. and the worst part is: this was already noted in 2017 within the tax service. and after a long period of denial, it became clear that top officials at the ministry had long known about these abuses. instead of opting for openness, the dutch government chose to make this case disappear into the mists of time. prime minister rutte likes to take other eu member states on the functioning of their rule of law. instead of seeing the splinter in the eye of other countries, he should look at the beam in his own eye.
mr president, a core task of the government is to protect the individual against the power of the majority. the dutch government has failed to do so. this is heartbreaking for all those thousands of parents and children who have faced severe financial and emotional damage. it also results in citizens losing trust in the government. this trust can only be restored when the government acknowledges its own mistakes and generously and promptly remedies the consequences of these mistakes. but that's about more than reparations. the government must also apply the principles of restorative justice. that means: acknowledge the crime and feel what you've done. only then can the recovery be worked on in partnership and on an equal footing with the victims. this whole scandal is the result of a corporate neoliberal government that has cut its own hair. the result was a bureaucracy that had to cut back and at the same time focus heavily on tackling fraud. it is also the result of the 'meta-transformation' of this government. the ubiquitous application of algorithms and artificial intelligence carries with it major risks. computers do not apply human rights. they simply take institutional racism, which unfortunately is still very much present in europe, and they take it into their algorithms. i want to know: what will the commission do with these important lessons? how does she prevent a surcharge affair in her own home? because i don't see any guarantee of that.
mr president, in may this year the dutch government publicly admitted for the first time that institutional racism was the main cause of the child benefit scandal. and as a result of the scandal, the dutch government resigned. the dutch tax and customs administration has compiled risk profiles of child benefit claimants using pseudonymised and dual-nationality algorithms. and this practice has resulted in thousands of low- and middle-income families being audited, falsely accused of fraud, and asked to return entirely legally earned benefits. i understand the fight against fraud, the fight against misappropriation and the abuse of the welfare system, but to use algorithms that lead to racial profiling in the 21st century, that is an absolutely unacceptable practice. i am glad that the commissioner has spoken on this matter. the clear call for compensation for the victims is unmistakable. i think it would be good if the commissioner could say more precisely how the commission intends to monitor the process of compensation and redress for citizens who have suffered specific damage in the allowance scandal. and it's also important to note that in the last six years, 1,675 children have been removed from their homes by social workers. that's an increase of 520 children, and so far, 555 children have not returned at the end of last year, and they're still in alternative institutional care. such a scandal is truly unacceptable in the 21st century.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. thousands of families in the netherlands were wrongly accused of fraud between 2013 and 2019. families were plunged into debt, and children were taken from their parents. the reason for this is deep-seated racism and prejudice that you have deliberately fed to the algorithms. i can sympathize very much with those affected, as people with a roma background are among the most marginalized groups in europe and anti-gypsyism is on the rise again. it is important that we have answers that are relevant to the times when we investigate such stigmatization. that is why i have also stressed in the report on racism, which we are working on in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, that the dangers of artificial intelligence and algorithms must be taken into account. racism cannot be fought with recommendations. we need the force of law to protect people from racism.
mr president, let me be clear and unambiguous: this is a major issue in the netherlands, something that is regrettable, deeply disturbing, and for which the government has also taken responsibility by taking action. the dutch government tried to learn from this, and indeed compensation must be paid as soon as possible to those who have suffered as a result. but the question put to the commissioner is: we can wait for an ai law and sort things out in it, but what is this commissioner doing now to prevent - something the netherlands has already learned from - that other member states are now also using systems in which risk profiling takes place on the basis of ethnicity, on the basis of origin? what is the commission doing at the moment to prevent this?
it is good that we in the european parliament are also paying attention to the issue of subsidies, because what has happened is of course scandalous. the government should be a shield for the weak, but the government - the dutch government - did just the opposite. citizens were put in great financial trouble, discriminated against. children were being evicted. and the misery is still going on. the function of this debate is, in my view, primarily to show other countries how not to do it, and also to contribute to a certain awareness. awareness of how things can go very easily, very wrong, fundamentally wrong in government agencies. government needs to be trustworthy, and that requires a sustained investment from all of us.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to say at the outset, perhaps, since we are getting a bit of an analysis: and it is moving, the commission. the commission has been very active in the field of fertilisers for a long time. but i very much welcome, commissioner, the announcement by you that at the end of october the commission will be taking up the issue of fertilisers. it is of course related to the energy price situation, but it is also necessary to recognize the systemic relevance not only of the agricultural sector but also of the upstream and downstream sectors. if i look at what my colleague herbert dorfmann has already said, that there are of course many ways of looking at how we can maintain or even increase yields in the european union, then of course, in addition to fertilizers, ammonia, urea and nitrogen play a role. we need some concrete measures, which i hope will be included in the commission's communication, such as suspending all anti-dumping measures, including concrete measures to help the european fertiliser industry, but also to recognise in the medium term that we have a little too many animals in some regions of europe, but that we have too few animals in many regions of europe, that it is precisely organic fertilisers that make us more independent, also in agricultural production, and that the policy of reducing the number of animals in europe must come to an end and that we must recognise that organic is not always the solution. in my region, we have 15 percent organic, which provides 5 percent of the people's food supply. this means that there is still a long way to go towards greater productivity. and ... (the president shall withdraw the floor from the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the escalation in the prices of raw materials and energy costs which we have been witnessing for months is having irreversible consequences, the first victims of which are our farmers, once again. in the face of this emergency, the union must urgently put in place an ambitious and concrete response to halt the run on fertiliser prices and ensure adequate availability for our farms. in fact, 50 percent of our food is based on the use of high-quality fertilisers, which over the past few decades have played a key role in the green revolution of our agricultural system, increasing yields and increasing global food security. now, commissioner, we cannot afford to back down. the situation of the fertiliser industry, which is often forced to shut down its production lines because of unsustainable price increases, requires us to take decisions that can no longer be postponed. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. at the same time, to ensure the competitiveness and production capacity of the union's agri-food sector, we must invest in all available alternatives and eliminate those constraints, such as the 170 kg nitrogen per hectare per year threshold, which still limit the use of organic fertilisers and the development of true circular economy systems based on the exploitation of digestate. in the face of this emergency, which affects european countries, businesses and households in unequal ways, a european response is therefore needed that can support our production system and guide it towards ever greater sustainability and independence of the most critical productions, from gas to ammonia, necessary for the production of fertilisers, to agricultural raw materials that guarantee our food security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i'm surprised at this debate. for years we have accepted that the fertilisers come from russia, from belarus, for years we have done nothing against the dependence on fossil fuels in agriculture, especially from russia. and now there are people in parliament who are calling for a subsidy for the fertiliser industry. mr. lins, i'll tell you this: yara, the largest nitrogen producer, has jumped from 775 million to 1.5 billion in profits. why should we support this company? kali + salt has made a profit jump. so this is the wrong way to go. we have to get away from these fossil structures and not subsidize them afterwards. the commission itself has put forward a 20% reduction in fertiliser in its 'from the farm to the table' strategy. why would you do that? because in many regions we have a problem of over-fertilization and not of too little fertilizer, too much fertilizer in many waters and too much nitrogen in agriculture. that's why the 20% less fertilizer strategy is so right. we also have to recognize that the nitrogen industry alone contributes to 2.4 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, and nitrous oxide emissions are rising. so we have to switch to agroecological systems. any farmer can grow legumes, anyone! i do not understand why the commission is suspending the crop rotation, why it is not taking advantage of the possibility that every farmer also grows legumes. we must have sensible crop rotations, but we must also deal better with organic fertilisers. we have a problem in many regions with too much fertilizer. the answer to this question is not to subsidize chemicals more, but to turn to agro-ecological systems. they're future-proof, and they make us independent of both russian gas and big chemical companies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the commission that there is an urgent need for a european strategy on fertilisers. it is urgent to help our farmers to obtain them at an affordable price. it is important for them, but also for ensuring our food security and that of third countries. i regret, however, the mistakes made by the commission on this matter. on 10 august, it published guidelines in which it decided to block the export of russian agricultural fertilisers. the embargo was in contradiction with an international agreement signed on 22 july under the auspices of the un. this situation led the un secretary-general to protest to mrs von der leyen. however, it was not until 19 september and pressure from several eu member states that the commission lifted the fertiliser embargo. moral: we have lost five weeks, during which we have made the fertilizer crisis worse instead of trying to solve it. the strategy presented to us today is therefore welcome, but it is a long overdue one. this fact reinforces my conviction that the commission is unable to deal with crises of any kind. in any case, let us move forward: i take note of what the commissioner for agriculture has just said, i share his lucid assessment of the seriousness of the fertiliser crisis, but i do not think that the financial aid to farmers he has presented is sufficient to deal with it. i am waiting for a real strategy, which will make it possible, among other things, to bring home the manufacture of the fertilisers we need.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fertilisers are crucial to our food supply. without nutrients, there is no growth and therefore no harvest. so now that fertilizer prices are escalating, action is needed. not only is the future of many businesses at stake, but global food production is also at stake. however, an important solution is available. i'm talking about recycling nutrients through animal manure and processed manure. renure products based on processed manure meet strict criteria and should therefore be recognised as manure substitutes without delay. the european parliament made a very clear call in its resolution of march. does the commission realise how strategic our food production is, as are the raw materials needed for it? we are now seeing the problems of being dependent on third countries for our energy supply. we must ensure that we do not become dependent on imports from third countries for our fertilisers and food supplies. i therefore urge the commission to approve the replacements for fertilisers mentioned immediately. and that also fits very well with the drive towards a circular economy. in addition, everything must be done to keep fertiliser production in europe affordable.
madam president, colleagues, commissioner, the projections show us that during the coming winter, people in this union will die from hunger and cold, and more and more people will lose their home and fall into extreme poverty. also, homelessness has life—threatening consequences. but, so far in this house, we have seen more support for companies struggling with the rising energy costs than support for citizens. and this abstract number of almost 100 people in the eu at risk of poverty in reality means freezing rooms, empty lunchboxes, and losing your home. that’s why i ask our european leaders, when discussing how to respond to the energy crisis, to look beyond mere numbers and to take action for people. make sure we won’t lose sight of ending homelessness by 2030, and make sure no one will die from the cold this winter. decide on a european moratorium on evictions and a moratorium on being cut off from energy.
mr president, dear commissioner, today we can finally speak freely about the way frontex was covering up pushbacks. despite all attempts to keep it secret, reported violations were disregarded, fundamental rights watchdogs were side-lined, the parliament lied to. the report not only reveals the misbehaviour of a manager, but also the complete failure of the governance of frontex. why did the member states and commission allow this misconduct to go on for years? why didn’t they prevent this deeply rotten culture? this report is not about an incident or a few people, but about the structural human rights crisis at our borders and within frontex, an agency that must guarantee our values and rights. lives, protection, human dignity are at stake, we must see that the lessons learned at all levels. it would be a big mistake to pretend that almost all problems are already solved. no, we must work hard on the structure and culture of the agency on transparency and accountability, and to stop any acceptance of pushbacks.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. say, almost everything you buy online or offline in the store, it ends up with you via the ocean. and 99 percent of the fuels that power these container ships are fossil fuels, and so bad for climate warming and bad for the air quality in ports. and here it comes! nowhere in the world have we reached an agreement on how to stop this pollution. until now, in the eu. the clean shipping act will ensure that all container ships and all cruise ships sailing in or coming into the eu must be sustainable in the future. with this law, we are making fair agreements on how container ships and cruise ships can emit less and less co2 from 2025 and from 2030 be obliged to use electricity when they are at anchor in the ports, so that there is no more air pollution in seaports such as rotterdam and amsterdam. because every year 400 000 people die prematurely in the eu because of air pollution. what i am particularly proud of is that this law makes the commission's original proposal even more ambitious. that was my mission as a negotiator: an even faster reduction in co2 emissions and a mandatory zero-emission fuel rate, so that fuel producers can start producing these most sustainable fuels now. this ambitious clean shipping act will help us meet climate objectives while giving fuel producers a clear picture of the huge investments needed to make this maritime sector sustainable. and with this law, you won't have to worry about whether your sneakers have made it across the ocean sustainably in the future. all you have to do is think about what color you'd like.
mr president, as i stand before you, a dark scenario threatens millions of households this winter. not only is the energy bill rising, but so are the expenses for daily groceries and transportation. and this energy crisis is widening existing social inequalities. during the covid crisis, a new billionaire was added every 30 hours on average. how would that be? who benefits most from this crisis? the rich get richer and the poor get poorer, but we're moving on to the order of the day. the belief in the free market is so strong that few politicians dare to intervene. but now it is also affecting people who until now have barely managed to keep their heads above water, who are not directly dependent on the government for their survival. and what are we gonna do about this? how do we make sure the energy bill is affordable? the price ceiling in combination with capital gains tax is the key, but it is not the only step. hopefully, the heads of government will reach an agreement next friday to tame the unruly energy market. what are you waiting for? now we are buying together and now we are working on market reform! then we can face the winters ahead with a clearer heart.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, young lgbtiq+ people are often struggling with their mental health. numbers show that they are four times more likely to be bullied in schools and are five times more likely to commit suicide because they do not feel accepted and have to deal with hate speech and violence. what definitely doesn’t help is that we increasingly see hate and disinformation being spread about our community on social media. this hate is fuelled by far—right groups and amplified by social media algorithms. worse, these lies about our community are then repeated in the political arena, also in this house, legitimising hate. online violence leads to offline violence. we see that with the increase in bomb threats against gender clinics and with the devastating recent shooting outside a queer bar in bratislava, where two people lost their lives. we have to do better for our lgbtiq+ community. we need to do everything that we can to stop the amplification of hate and disinformation online by banning these polarising algorithms. but we also have to collectively stand up against this hate being legitimized offline, especially in the political arena. let me be clear: if we tolerate hate against minorities, we tolerate the erosion of our values and our democracies, and we accept that young generations will grow up feeling unwanted and unloved. we have to do better.
we can talk a lot about the measures needed to overcome the crisis, madam president, commissioner, member of the council, ladies and gentlemen, but if the funds are not provided, we are unlikely to achieve anything. when the multiannual financial programme was being prepared, no one thought that a pandemic would strike, that russia would go to war, that inflation would hit, that energy prices would rise drastically. it is therefore clear that the 2023 budget must reflect all of this. agriculture has played a strategic role in ensuring food security in all these crises, and its viability is a priority. we must urgently put an end to discriminatory direct payment schemes, support young farmers by all means, give everyone access to technology and adequate energy, and invest in the protection of biodiversity. without food there will be no europe, and any proposals to reduce funding for this area are incomprehensible and unjustified.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to denounce from this platform a practice which i believe is a form of budgetary fraud. i can see how harsh that term is, but i can't think of anything else. the budget is at the service of the inhabitants, the economic sectors, the local authorities and, yes, at the service of the future. you are hijacking this act by turning the european budget into a means of political pressure on the states. you're not fighting a budgetary policy, but you're fighting an ideological war against those who oppose your political vision. the financial blackmail against hungary is based on this questionable method. and what about the threats mrs von der leyen made to the italians on the eve of their election when she warned: 'if you vote wrong, we could suspend the disbursement of european funds to you'. your desperate authoritarian and imperialist maneuvers will not stop the march that has begun all over europe. on the contrary, it is accelerating. nothing will stop the peoples of the free nations of europe from taking their destiny into their own hands.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is beyond words that the european union is once again willing to pay many millions next year for problematic palestinian schoolbooks - books which glorify terrorism, incite hatred and violence and promote anti-semitism. the commission is making it all happen. it has recently simply reopened the money-grab to the palestinian authority, without any conditions being attached to the textbooks. i don't understand why you're doing this. the fight against anti-semitism should be a top priority, including in our foreign policy. now that the commission is letting it go, we as a parliament must take responsibility. the ecr group therefore proposes that eur 30 million be put into the reserve and that the money be released only when the problems with schoolbooks have been solved. i therefore call on you to reject amendment no 823 from the committee on budgets and to support our amendment no 415. let us promote peace and stop the sowing of hatred.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, we are living through extraordinary times. a still lingering global pandemic, war in europe and all its profound consequences, uncertainty and economic headwinds. 2023 will be the last year before vital european elections, and we need to be in sixth gear and not in neutral. now is the time to double down on delivering for the citizens of europe. what does this mean in practice? it means turning challenges into possibilities. let us be honest, putin does not just want to destroy ukraine; he wants an international alliance to reinvent the world order. china has a similar ambition. we must make sure europe shapes the world of tomorrow, not dictator putin and autocrat xi. this is a turning point moment. our way of life must prevail, and that’s why we need a more sovereign, strong and independent europe, on food security, on industrial competitiveness, on energy and raw materials, and on security and defence. we need increased possibilities for defence cooperation on the mff; a hydrogen alliance that will power europe and make us more independent; a euro that is as powerful as the dollar, with a willingness to use the power of our single currency to enforce secondary sections globally. we must use our economic power to become the geopolitical force we should be. we need a complete asylum and migration package adopted to ensure a thriving economy and shape a changing world with our values. we say yes to new trade agreements, yes to more support for citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises, and yes to increased cooperation with our allies and friends colleagues. we are a threat to the autocrats of the world, because we harness the forces of our citizens instead of suppressing them. that is why we must act upon the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe, and we await the commission’s proposals. friends, this has been a parliamentary mandate unlike any other in the history of this house. thank you, commissioner šefčovič, for your continued dedication and hard work. in 2023, let’s keep our foot on the accelerator and seize the chance to mould the changing world around us. let’s deliver. let’s renew europe together.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it’s about time. today parliament is discussing, at my request, this groundbreaking ruling on schengen. it has been six months since the european court of justice ruled that austrian and italian border controls have been illegal under eu law since november 2017. but despite this ruling, nothing has changed. austria and five other schengen states again blocked the controls for another six months, breaking eu law yet again. i strongly condemn these controls. we need to act now, dear colleagues, because the commission has said nothing so far about this ruling, because the commission also never issued an opinion on these controls as law demands. while the commission itself said in court that these controls were not in line with european law, i want to know: what will the commission do now? it’s time to step up and protect the rule of law and schengen. start infringement procedures, issue opinions on the controls? can you really accept this complete disregard for rule of law just because france and germany are breaking it? are we going to let schengen slip away in front of our eyes? ladies and gentlemen, the law needs to be respected. the court decision needs to be respected. dear colleagues, we have to cherish and protect our schengen, because if we lose schengen, we lose the european union.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you are always quick to praise the advantages of free movement, of the schengen area, but much more discreet when it comes to admitting the link with the offences, or even with the tragedies, linked to the absence of border controls. all kinds of criminal networks, terrorists and mafias, as well as traffickers of all kinds, take advantage of the free movement between countries and therefore between jurisdictions. and perhaps the most dramatic consequence is the arrival, settlement and movement of increasing numbers of illegal migrants on the european continent. in reality, the schengen area, which should be a protected area of free movement, is an area of free movement open to all winds. your proposals to extend the schengen area today to romania and bulgaria, tomorrow to the balkans, to increase the number of member states from 27 to 30, or even 36 with a push towards the east, as german chancellor olaf scholz said last saturday, are proof of your determination to advance your ideological project. after your cover-up in 2005, your refusal to hold a referendum on the future of europe since then confirms your imperialist ambitions and your disregard for the will of the people, which you have decided to ignore.
the european parliament, the council and the commission have been working together to develop a common approach to the problem of migration. this is what former us president trump said, and he was right. schengen - and this has just been said - can only survive if the eu's external borders are strictly guarded, if the walls of fort europe are not cracked. but right now, illegal immigration is hitting record after record. the human trafficking ngos bring tens of thousands of illegal immigrants to europe. the eu is allowing it all to happen in the name of humanity. it is therefore only logical that countries should reintroduce border controls. it is also good that the court has now recognised that these border checks are also legal, even if they last for more than six months. but let's not forget the underlying problems. first, even today, the sabotage of the protection of the eu's external border by a left-liberal majority here. secondly, the continuing toleration of human smuggling. and thirdly, the failure to comply with the dublin agreement. it is time we put an end to industrial human smuggling, finally comply with dublin, and protect our borders much more strongly. let fort europe become a reality.
mr president, in glasgow we completed the paris rulebook. in egypt we have to deliver on the paris agreement on our climate goals. when it comes to decarbonising the world, we have a momentum to engage with developing countries to share the benefits and advantages of the global energy transition. let this african cop be more than just a symbolic gathering, let’s pave the way for a real european-african partnership with a strong pillar for sustainable energy. a lot of sustainable energy potential in africa is still untapped. this represents a unique opportunity to provide affordable, reliable and sustainable energy for africa and europe. solar panels have a very high yield in africa. if we cooperate more, both africa and the rest of the world can benefit tremendously from their capacity for renewable energy. as the green deal is on its way to deliver on climate neutrality in europe while leaving no one behind, the paris agreement reminds us that we have to do the same for the rest of the world.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, (start of speech off mic) numerous victims. refugees from ukraine deserve our unconditional support, no matter how long, no matter how many. so we warmly welcome the extended application of the temporary protection directive. but the russian aggression also affects citizens of russia and belarus, who don’t choose the side of putin. human rights defenders, journalists who speak out are persecuted. deserters and draft evaders who do not want to fight this cruel war are under a risk as well, as putin perceives them as traitors. the eu must keep its channels open to protect those who are under threat. the right to asylum is neutral and universal and cannot be ignored just for political reasons. so people who arrive at our borders must be able to apply for asylum and i call upon the commission to monitor compliance by the member states. unlike the authoritarian kremlin regime, we respect the rule of law, and only by upholding our values, we can win this war.
mr president, life is becoming unaffordable for many people in europe. the eu blames it all on putin. his war is outrageous, but the inflation crisis is the direct result of the ill-conceived energy transition. we haven't invested in clean nuclear energy, we've invested in unreliable solar and wind. that makes us dependent on putin. the rest is history. now the commission is proposing a price ceiling. lower charges are necessary, but a price ceiling is not a long-term solution. the real problem is a lack of energy supply. we'll have to increase that. here's an example of how not to do it: germany naively decides to close all nuclear power stations in april. let me give you an example of how it should be done. the new realistic swedish coalition is fully committed to the construction of new nuclear power stations; the ban on restarting closed nuclear power plants is lifted. as chairman of the ja21 group, i would also like to congratulate our friends from fratelli d'italia. i hope that italy will also embrace nuclear energy. it shows that conservative cooperation pays off. i will continue to work for that on behalf of my party.
madam president, let me start on ukraine. i fully share the statements of the commission president: acts of russia are acts of terror. our reaction must be to show more commitment to all fronts to the fight of ukrainians. at the same time, i believe it’s time to formalise more our plans on how to support ukraine reconstruction. we can go farther. we can appoint people, set up the structure and start work and do it now. on energy, i believe we need more cooperation among the member states. energy plans that are based on subsidising the cost of energy to a mere fraction of the market price can undermine energy security, can create big political tensions, and at the same time can undermine the functionality of the market. these plans are not the way forward. we need more cooperation on this and sustainable economic support for our households and businesses.
madam president, the honorable house. the world is at a crossroads and in crisis, and politics has been holding in its hands for the last few months a compass whose magnetic needle points in the direction of social democratic, people-oriented policies. if politicians are sincere in their intention to overcome the energy crisis and the oil price, they will follow this infallible compass. we, the socialists and democrats of europe, are pursuing this course with determination and sincerity, with a clear plan to meet the challenges facing people and the economy. we have a plan to lower and more equitable energy prices. we're calling for a cap on natural gas and for electricity prices to be set independently of gas prices. i expected the commission proposal to take a step in this direction, but unfortunately it did not. i also make a clear call on european leaders to grant bosnia and herzegovina candidate status for membership of the european union as soon as possible, before the end of the year. we have a lot of work to do, and with a strong policy for the good of the people, we have successes to look forward to.
madam president, due to the russian invasion and therefore emergency situation on the energy market, we are in an extraordinary situation and therefore we need extraordinary measures to deal with it. new measures can be a useful step for market stability leading to the necessary price drop. we can overcome the current situation only by common european solutions. common purchases, combined with solidarity mechanism, can be really crucial steps for having enough gas for reasonable prices. new market rules are welcome, but we need also to split gas price from the electricity price. it is particularly great news for my country slovakia – as it was our proposal – that we can use unused funds from the period until 2020. i appreciate the opportunity to use this european money for those who are the most affected. i do believe that these proposals, together with supporting supply and reducing demand on the energy market, will be leading to the stability and much—needed price reduction on the market.
the war in ukraine and its economic and social consequences for europe and our people remain, madam president, and will remain for a long time, the most important issues on the political agenda of the european union. we must support ukraine and provide it with all the assistance it needs to defend itself against russian aggression. equally, we must act in solidarity and with urgency to stop the rise of social inequalities in europe. we can't let our people have to choose between heat and food. ladies and gentlemen, this extraordinary situation requires extraordinary and urgent solutions. an agreement must be found on gas price caps, taxation and redistribution of unjustified profits of large energy companies, and common gas purchases in the eu to help and protect the most vulnerable people and businesses. we must finally protect our food production facilities and ensure our food security. our duty is to help people and small and medium-sized businesses survive this difficult period, and i very much hope that a common agreement on an eu solidarity package will be found.
madam president, we are facing a test that will determine our future. the rise in energy prices is a major concern for 47% of slovaks. in slovakia, approximately one in six households is at risk of energy poverty. as i have stressed on many occasions, the council agreement does not sufficiently address the problems of all member states. we therefore need to take concrete steps towards solidarity so that households and businesses across the eu feel the support they need to overcome this crisis. it is also crucial to negotiate lng and other gas prices with the us and other reliable partners as a matter of urgency. i welcome the commission's support for the use of the unexpended funds to combat the energy crisis. but i hope that in the ep we can increase the allocation from the current proposed 10%. amidst the great challenges, the european union and the member states must set policies to help households, businesses and the public sector navigate this difficult period. it is crucial to act quickly in unity and solidarity.
madam president, at this point the debate has reached some clear conclusions. the first is that decoupling gas from the final price of electricity means, let us admit it, that what was once called the iberian exception is now the general rule in the european union. the second is that to stop gas in order to protect european consumers from inflation means intervening in a market which is not working. thirdly, when we talk about increasing the energy and strategic autonomy of the european union, this implies joint purchasing, a joint strategy for the purchase of gas and supplies of european scope. but there is a fourth, and that is that when we speak of putin as a threat - which he is to the whole of the european union - we have to make a retrospective self-criticism, because some member states have indeed been feeding this threat for too long, which is now acting in the field of disinformation, in the attack on critical infrastructures, but above all is an ally of the extreme right, of nationalism ... (the president withdraws the speaker).
madam president, we pay a high price in economic and energy terms for putin’s aggression against ukraine. but make no mistake: energy prices and inflation had risen even before russia’s invasion of ukraine. there are also structural deficiencies in the european union that are bringing about the present crisis. extreme conditions hinder the functioning of the supposedly free market. it is obvious that we have to change the rules in order to deal with exceptional circumstances that will probably last. changing the rules means that we have to liberate ourselves from the pressure exerted by big interests and powerful lobbies and implement solutions like the iberian model at the european level. we have to move fast because we are losing our political credibility.
madam president, i welcome the commission's complementary initiatives, both on the supplementary indicative index for liquefied natural gas and on the temporary price ceiling in the single market. but, you know, you're late. you are late because these proposals have been on the table since last march, at the initiative of the prime minister of greece, kyriakos mitsotakis. you're late because wasted time costs money. you are late because even the common platform which the leaders decided on last june has not been put into operation and we are at the end of october. time lost is costly; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the member states, and has also taken steps to ensure that the information it receives from the member states is not used to the detriment of the citizens of the union. we need leadership and the european council must take the lead in the coming days. we need to do for europe what is necessary to support its citizens, to support its households, to support its businesses to survive.
the commission's new package of measures, madam president, presupposes that the people will freeze in the name of reducing non-essential consumption, in order to ensure the sufficiency of the big industrialists. the mechanisms of green transition and liberalisation, which are the causes of the soaring energy and fuel prices, are further undermined. new incentives are given to the groups to gamble on the energy market and joint gas orders at competitive prices with china and india, in the interests of european monopolies and not the people. that is why the price of electricity will remain unaffordable for the people and they will have to pay the state subsidies out of their own pockets so as not to disrupt the revenue of the energy companies. solidarity with compensation and with the uncompensated could only be proclaimed by the european union, governments and the rapacious energy monopolies. the working people must intensify their struggle to break free from the imperialist war, against the eu's precision strategy, for wage increases and cheap energy, so that no popular family is frozen.
madam president, from the beginning of the russian invasion and with the corresponding sanctions packages, we have insisted that there is a great need for a parallel european response to the coming effects, with solidarity at its core. the european commission was then 'unfortunately' looking the other way. unfortunately, we didn't have the same understanding that we had with the pandemic. but i now come to the european council, where i see that the agenda includes russia's invasion of ukraine. i'll be right there. it also includes a discussion of our relationship with china. i am addressing the council and asking: when will we discuss erdogan's trojan horse in europe? and of course i am referring to turkey and to erdogan, especially after the commission's report, which objectively documents erdogan's illegality and how ruthless he is. i wonder if the time has not yet come for sanctions to be imposed ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, we are again debating today something we have been asking for months. what the commission president has presented to us, the citizens have heard before. and we've heard it many times before: proposals, proposals, proposals. the council doesn't make any decisions. right now, as we speak, citizens in my country and other states are being settled their bills, getting prices 4 to 10 times higher and there's no decision. what are we talking about here ? do we put people in the middle or not ? and the chairwoman told us that she's going to create a joint procurement platform. will it be as opaque as the vaccines? we won't know what the prices are, we won't know how they're divided? everything was totally opaque in the pandemic, and we don't want that to be the case anymore, that the profits of some companies are covered up, just like the profits of healthcare companies were. so, commissioner, i'm being asked by the citizens. i speak, but what answers do i get? and i tell them that i don't get it. perhaps today, however, you can give an answer: when are concrete measures being taken to end this energy crisis?
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, mr president of the council of the general affairs, honourable members, first and foremost, i really would like to thank you for this truly political debate this morning, because we have been indeed discussing the most pressing issues europe and the europeans are facing today: aggression of russia against ukraine, war on our continent, and the economic and social consequences of high energy prices, high inflation and the rising cost of living, being mentioned by almost all who intervene and present it in a very eloquent manner by the leaders of the political groups represented now ms reintke. and i appreciate what i felt was truly general support for the package the european commission has proposed yesterday. but what was very clear in your statements, be it from mr mureşan or ms charanzová, but i would say all the honourable members who took the floor, is that you would like us to be more ambitious. you would like us to be faster and you want to see more details on how these proposed measures would be translated into the real life. but i think that you will all agree with me that if it comes to what is on the table for our leaders at the european council, that there are all elements for the solutions to tackle this energy crisis we are facing right now. we are proposing to buy the gas together, as ms grapini was referring to, or mr schirdewan, in his remarks, something like one and a half hours ago. to be more precise, what we are proposing is to purchase together at least 15% so we can do more. but we need to start somewhere and we are going to address through this at least 50% purchase exactly that amount of gas, which was most difficult to get to complete a filling-up of our storages and which was also the most expensive. and of course, this is not an easy exercise because we need to set up this new system and at the same time we have to also respect the long-term contracts which are in place and which been valid. but i think that now we have the solution how to push forward and we are going to discuss how to combine this measure with all other measures which we propose to make sure that we will have security of supplies and adequate flows of energies into the european union. next, a very important point which was mentioned by many of you was the solidarity, especially with those countries which are landlocked and which would have problems if the situation would really become very precarious. and the european way of sharing and protecting a level playing field in our single market, as it was proposed by mr cioloş. all of you have been highlighting the burden our citizens and businesses are carrying because of the high energy prices. and i would like to reassure you, because it was mentioned many times by ms iratxe garcía pérez, mr bellamy, mr séjourné, that we are going to present to you in the first quarter of the next year new electricity market design, where we are going to decouple gas from electricity pricing because we know that the market design which served us well until prewar times, is not functioning anymore. and therefore we need to have a new electricity market design to be more appropriate for our european economy. on top of it, we are going to propose new complementary benchmark to ttf. and to be sure that we act with adequate agility, we are also proposing this market correction mechanism to react to the concrete situation of today. the same comes for the iberian model, because we see that there are strong merits in this model on how to limit electricity prices in europe. but we know that there is a lot of questions we have to answer in a way that it would not lead to an inadequate increase of the consumption of gas, because then we would again be faced with a lack of energy supplies to the european union. and of course, what is important for big businesses, we also presented a new temporary framework for state aid to help energy-intensive industries across europe. so the proposals are on the table and of course we need the green light and support of the european council. so we can sit with the energy ministers, we can sit with you, members of the european parliament, to hammer out the details. this is a very clear and present urgency and we should act in this manner. therefore, if you if you allow me to conclude with a strong, i would underscore strong, plea to the european parliament. the repowereu is discussed in your committees in this house, and you would, i hope, agree with me that we need to the repowereu now. we need to use it, if necessary we need to boost it, and we need the repowereu so we can transfer this eur 40 billion from the cohesion policy to repowereu so we can support the households, we can support the smes in europe. so my strong plea would be please make sure that you would respect your calendar and it would have a vote on the repowereu in november. the citizens of europe, businesses in europe, are waiting for this decision and we are ready to work with you to explore all other possibilities on how to use recovery and resilience facility loans, to use all financial firepower we have at our disposal so we can help the economy and citizens of the european union. so i think that if you would demonstrate this can-do attitude and this proactive approach in this very difficult situation, that our debate in november would not be focused on what needs to be done, but how we are going to use the funds, how we are going to use these new tools, which we will be developing in the course of the next weeks. and i think that it would be the best answer to the concerns of the european citizens, european businesses and peoples of the european union.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, vice—president of the european commission, honourable members, thank you for your remarks and comments. views expressed here have been diverse, which is part of the beauty of this house. despite divergences, we could hear several strong messages. we heard calls for european unity. here, i cannot agree more with mr séjourné that we can be strong outside only if we are strong inside. we took note of and fully agree with the repeated reference to european solidarity, especially with those member states that are hit more than the others are. there was a clear message from this parliament for more ambitious and more coordinated eu responses to the energy crisis that we face. delivering concrete measures for our citizens and our companies will be at the heart of leaders’ discussion on the basis of the new proposals put forward by the commission. several interventions today also highlighted the need for stronger social and economic measures, including fiscal and other redistributive measures, to protect citizens, especially those most vulnerable, from the effects of putin’s war of aggression. member states are doing their part at national level and taking bold measures. the european leaders will look into ways to strengthen our combined efforts. i also took note of your strong condemnation of the latest strategic developments in russia’s war of aggression, targeting civilians and cutting off ukrainian energy supplies. leaders will confirm their strong support for ukraine. the eu should continue to lead on the investigation of war crimes to ensure that those responsible are brought to justice. furthermore, leaders have repeatedly stated that the european council stands ready to revise the existing sanction regime and consider further sanctions. these will be messages that i take back from this session and convey to the president of the european council. as regards a concrete question, the issue of de—escalation in eastern mediterranean will also be on the leaders’ agenda. honourable members, this european council meeting has a substantial agenda in which leaders deal with the complex and interlinked crises we face today: our safety and security, our continued access to affordable energy supply, climate and biodiversity and the strength and resilience of our economy. thank you once again for your attention.
dear colleagues, it is an honour for the european parliament to have the president of slovakia, zuzana čaputová, with us here today. madam president, dear zuzana, welcome. thank you for your vocal promotion of the values of equality and diversity – that this house and our europe holds so dear. last week’s double murder at the heart of bratislava is a reminder to us of the constant need to fight back against hate and defend our lgbtiq community. president čaputová, we know you also as a firm defender of freedom of speech. soon we will mark five years since the murder of slovak journalist jan kuciak and martina kušnírová, that shocked us to our core. this house, madam president, will always remember jan and martina and you will always find us as an ally in the defence of values. dear zuzana, let me quote your words in a speech you gave at the united nations general assembly, you said that: ‘solidarity should be our binding principle, not an option.’ and your country, slovakia, has demonstrated what solidarity means by welcoming more than half a million ukrainian refugees since the onset of war, by being at the forefront of political and military aid to ukraine. slovakia has shown time and again that it can lead. thank you for your country’s leadership at this critical moment for europe. president čaputová, the floor is yours.
(president of the slovak republic). – madam president, honourable members, dear representatives of the czech presidency of the council, my fellow europeans, it is an honour and privilege to be here and to address the beating heart of the european union’s democracy here in strasbourg. this is a city where the modern concept of defending universal human rights was translated into concrete institutions. while serving a broader purpose, i see the european parliament as one of them. my message today is simple: if we do not start defending democracy, it will cease to exist. the date of my speech here was planned long ago. i couldn’t have expected that the recent homophobic murder of juraj vankulič and matúš horváth on the streets of bratislava would remind us of the simple truth so painfully. it is hard to put in words the grief felt in slovakia’s cities in the past few days because hate decided to kill love, just because the killer could not accept that love can come in different forms. this was an assault not just on young people from the lgbtiq community. it was an attack on everyone in slovakia because hate crimes always target the very essence of what our society stands for. i would like to assure you that hatred doesn’t dominate our society. i welcome that slovakia’s civil society immediately and resolutely condemned this attack. just yesterday, the slovak parliament adopted a resolution strongly condemning these terrorist acts and assuring all minorities that they are valuable members of our society. in its essence, democracy is the rule by the majority in the interest of all, with a key emphasis on the protection of minorities. if we are failing in their protection, we are undermining democracy itself. in my view, the defence and protection of democracy is the core mission of our generation of political leaders. the task ahead of us is to bring europe back into balance, which is shaken by crises from within and without. we need a balance between our rights and our commitments; between our security and our prosperity, which we have partly built through dependence on those who wish to destroy our democracy; a balance in which we can have different opinions, but where we are bound by the values of freedom, solidarity and liberal democracy. and now please allow me to switch into slovak so even here in the european parliament’s chamber, one can hear the beautiful slovak language. vážená pani prezidentka, vážené poslankyne, vážení poslanci, rovnováha, o ktorej som hovorila, je za posledné dva roky ohrozovaná dvoma veľkými krízami – pandemickou a bezpečnostnou, ktorú vyvolalo rusko svojou inváziou ukrajiny. na obe sme ako európska únia zareagovali správne. pri pandémii sme národné uzatváranie hraníc a preteky o to, kto obstará viac rúšok, rýchlo nahradili spoločným prístupom a solidaritou. začali sme so spoločnou postpandemickou obnovou nášho hospodárstva cez fond obnovy a odolnosti. a solidaritu sme zdieľali aj mimo našich hraníc. dnes patríme medzi najväčších globálnych darcov vakcín proti covidu-19. podobne rozhodne sme zareagovali na vojnu, ktorú vladimír putin 24. februára naplno rozpútal proti nášmu východnému susedovi. pripomeňme si, že táto vojna sa v to pochmúrne februárové ráno iba zintenzívnila, že rusko ju viedlo už dávno predtým – najskôr dezinformáciami a propagandou a od roku 2014 aj vojensky s jasným cieľom ukrajinu podmaniť alebo ju zničiť. ako európska únia sme na rusko uvalili najrozsiahlejšie sankcie, akým kedy akákoľvek rozvinutá ekonomika čelila. ukrajine poskytujeme politickú, humanitárnu, finančnú pomoc, a väčšina krajín vrátane slovenska aj vojenskú pomoc. veľmi dôležitá je aj európska perspektíva, ktorú sme ukrajine poskytli, a verím, že raz bude realizovaná plnohodnotným členstvom. našou pomocou sa spoločne usilujeme o jediné, dosiahnuť mier. ten však musí byť spravodlivý, inak by išlo iba o dočasné prímerie. tým, ktorí pred vojnou museli utiecť zo svojich domovov, sme otvorili nielen svoje domovy, ale aj svoje srdcia. len slovenské hranice s ukrajinou prekročilo viac ako 800 000 ľudí z ukrajiny a mnohí z nich u nás ostali. ja som veľmi hrdá na solidaritu a pomoc, ktorú im naši občania poskytli. z oboch kríz si európania okrem strachu a obáv odniesli aj veľmi silný zážitok celoeurópskej empatie a jednoty. práve táto skúsenosť nám ukazuje, že najlepšou cestou na prekonávanie akýchkoľvek výziev, ktorým ako únia čelíme, je naša jednota, spolupráca a solidarita. dámy a páni, naša snaha o rovnováhu v európe sa týmto nekončí. paradoxom totiž je, že v situácii, kedy sme bezprecedentne zjednotení voči externým výzvam, čelíme dnes aj veľmi silným vnútorným tlakom. tie sú vyvolané súbehom niekoľkých kríz, ale aj dlhodobým ignorovaním našich zraniteľností. ak nezvládneme tieto európske krízy, hrozí nám, že prerastú do krízy európy. milióny európskych domácností a podnikov je dnes ohrozovaných skokovým rastom cien energií. tieto začali rásť ešte pred vojnou, keďže rusko už minulé leto začalo znižovať dodávky zemného plynu do európy. tým začalo deformovať európsky energetický trh a ohrozovať našich občanov. slovensko, ktoré donedávna získavalo 85 % plynu z ruska, vďaka diverzifikácii znížilo svoju závislosť na 33 %. nikdy ale nevieme, kedy dodávky plynu vladimír putin stopne úplne. ako únia dnes potrebujeme riešiť príčiny aj dopady tejto krízy. správne riešenia preto majú byť európske, spoločné a solidárne. také, ktoré urýchlene pomôžu v ťažkej situácii všetkým členským krajinám a okrem kompenzácií umožnia aj dohodu na spoločnom zastropovaní cien plynu. potrebujeme tiež oddeliť previazanosť cien elektriny a cien plynu, pretože dnes krajiny ako slovensko, ktoré vyrábajú väčšinu elektriny z nízkouhlíkových zdrojov, za ňu platia neadekvátne vysoké ceny. dovoľujem si vás preto požiadať o podporu týchto riešení. okrem následkov však musíme riešiť aj príčiny, ktoré nás sem dostali. už nikdy nemôžeme ako únia ostať tak závislí na jednom dodávateľovi. a už nikdy nemôže byť náš hospodársky model a prosperita tak závislé na fosílnych palivách. záväzok stať sa klimaticky neutrálnym kontinentom do roku 2050 už nemôžeme odkladať či spochybňovať. musíme predovšetkým pomôcť tým, na ktorých dnes energetická kríza najviac dopadá. ale cieľ je jasný: inovovať náš model rozvoja tak, aby sme viac využívali obnoviteľné zdroje energie a menej ničili našu vlastnú planétu. globálnymi lídrami sa musíme stať nielen v našich klimatických záväzkoch či ambíciách, ale aj v ich napĺňaní. prežijeme iba vtedy, ak obnovíme rovnováhu medzi naším spôsobom života a planétou, na ktorej žijeme. vážené poslankyne, vážení poslanci, dnes čelíme aj kríze demokratických pravidiel a ich dodržiavania. každá jedna krajina, ktorá do európskej únie vstúpila, a každá jedna krajina, ktorá sa o to usiluje, musí byť a zostať liberálnou demokraciou. byť členom tohto klubu nie je nárok. je to privilégium. členstvo v tomto klube nestačí iba dosiahnuť, členstvo v ňom treba neustále aktualizovať jasným pochopením a rešpektom k spoločným hodnotám: hodnotám ako právny štát, deľba moci, nezávislosť súdnictva, sloboda médií či ochrana menšín. ak tieto základné kamene, na ktorých je naše spoločenstvo postavené, čelia útoku, musíme konať na ich obranu. chcem zdôrazniť, že pravidlá nám chýbajú menej ako dôslednosť a konzekventnosť pri ich vynucovaní. ak naše opatrenia nebudú rozhodné, problémy budú narastať, a tí, ktorí hodnoty európskej únie porušujú, budú povzbudzovať a inšpirovať ďalších. samotný pojem liberálnej demokracie je dnes v mnohých našich krajinách dezinterpretovaný, nepochopený, spochybňovaný a atakovaný extrémom. hoci neexistuje jeden model liberálnej demokracie, som si istá, že „neliberálna demokracia“ sú dva nezlučiteľné pojmy. vážení prítomní, naše demokratické pravidlá sú dnes zneužívané na ničenie samotnej demokracie. sloboda slova je jedno z najdôležitejších demokratických práv. musíme ho chrániť, ale nie je bezbrehé. ako sa nám stalo, že sme slobodu prejavu vpustili až do priestoru verbálnych trestných činov? ako sme ju mohli častokrát povýšiť až na právo absolútne? to nie je demokratické, to je hlúpe. sloboda slova nemôže byť zásterkou pre šírenie neznášanlivosti, klamstiev a dezinformácií. nikde tento problém nie je vypuklejší ako na sociálnych sieťach. radikalizovaný tínedžer, ktorý pred týždňom zabil dvoch mladých ľudí a zranil tretiu v uliciach bratislavy, sa do veľkej miery inšpiroval na sociálnych sieťach a pred vraždou na sociálnej sieti publikoval dlhý pamflet plný nenávisti voči rôznym menšinám. táto vražda sa síce stala na slovensku, ale riziko takýchto činov sa týka nás všetkých. v rôznych častiach európy sledujeme stupňovanie agresivity voči menšinám a rast pravicového extrémizmu. zhoršovanie sociálno-ekonomickej situácie sebavedomiu radikálov iba pridáva. musíme si byť vedomí, že akýkoľvek útok z nenávisti je útokom na hodnotovú podstatu európskej únie, ktorej súčasťou je rovnoprávnosť, tolerancia a rešpekt k ľudským právam. zdá sa mi, že k sociálnym sieťam dnes pristupujeme podobne naivne ako k iným technologickým novinkám. teda bez uplatňovania predbežnej opatrnosti. benefity využívame bez znalosti a ostražitosti k ich možným a zjavným negatívnym dôsledkom. sociálne siete využívame bez toho, aby sme si ako spoločnosť naplno uvedomovali, ako nám ich algoritmy môžu škodiť, ako prehlbujú polarizáciu a posilňujú názorové bubliny. „pravde veriť, pravdu žiť a pravdu brániť“ je motto jedného zo zakladateľov moderného slovenského národa, generála milana rastislava štefánika. vo verejnom priestore musí platiť aj vtedy, ak sa zdá, že by bolo efektívnejšie nahlas kričať, bez ohľadu na kvalitu či pravdivosť výrokov, a nie sa vzájomne počúvať, viesť dialóg a dbať na fakty. nedovoľme, aby demokracia zahynula na naivitu demokratov. na naivnú vieru v to, že demokratické práva a slobody budú iba využívané, a nie zneužívané. nezabúdajme, že každé právo je zároveň vyjadrením zodpovednosti, a naopak. ak demokraciu nebudeme chrániť, môže sa nám stať, že budeme poslednou generáciou, ktorá ju zažije. práve jej ochrana je hlavnou úlohou našej generácie politických lídrov. musíme preto aj v tejto oblasti urobiť primerané kroky na národnej úrovni. je dobré, že európsky parlament prijal nariadenie o digitálnych službách, a vítam aj európsky akčný plán pre demokraciu. to, čo je nelegálne offline, musí byť nelegálne aj online. viac však potrebujeme urobiť aj na globálnej úrovni. biznis model sociálnych platforiem stojí na využívaní tých najnižších ľudských emócií a pudov. sociálne platformy nie sú len prevádzkovateľmi povestných informačných potrubí – ich zisk je totiž priamo úmerný tomu, koľko nenávisti, agresie, klamstiev a dezinformácií cez tieto potrubia pretečie. musia preto niesť primeranú zodpovednosť za obsah, ktorý je na nich publikovaný. vážená pani prezidentka, vážené poslankyne, vážení poslanci, výzvy, o ktorých dnes hovorím, robia európsku úniu krehkejšou, ako si možno uvedomujeme a pripúšťame. ekonomická, bezpečnostná, energetická kríza, pokračujúca fragmentácia našich spoločností či tlak nelegálnej migrácie sú živnou pôdou pre extrémizmus. v mnohých členských krajinách únie dnes stačí jeden volebný cyklus a v poslaneckých laviciach, aj tu, vo vašich miestach, môže sedieť väčšina, ktorá nebude chcieť európu budovať, ale rozložiť. preto nesmie byť laxní a defenzívni, ale naopak vytrvalí, odvážni a sebavedomí v obrane našich spoločných hodnôt. napriek nevyhnutnosti riešenia mnohých kríz, a možno práve preto, nesmieme zabúdať na to, na čom by mal byť postavený výkon politiky ako takej. preto nepoľavme v nárokoch na seba samých, aby sme reprezentovali slušnosť a etiku a demokratické hodnoty. vernosť týmto princípom nie je slabosťou, ale esenciou demokratickej politiky. prvý prezident československa, tomáš garrigue masaryk, už pred sto rokmi povedal, že demokracia nie je len systém politický, ale predovšetkým je to systém morálny. myslime na to všetci pri výkone nášho mandátu, je to zodpovednosť a povinnosť voči našim občanom. ak budeme demokraciu vnímať v tomto zmysle, som si istá, že zvládneme krízy, ktorým dnes čelíme, a naplníme tak naše poslanie byť strážcami a ochrancami demokracie, európskych hodnôt a rovnováhy. ďakujem za vašu pozornosť.
that concludes the formal sitting. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very emotional day for me, because after eight years of action, common struggles and sacrifices together with all of you, my distinguished, dear and beloved colleagues, i am obliged to make my last speech to you. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect. because i firmly believe that it is the strongest institution, the strongest democratic, pluralist institution of the european union - the democratically elected body which continues to defend the principles and values of the european union. i have taken the floor today to express my heartfelt thanks to all of you for the love with which you have surrounded me, especially in the two important committees on which i have been a member for these eight years, the committee on budgetary control and the committee on budgets. but above all, because of your generous support, which is almost unanimous, with only 11 votes against, you approved my candidacy to go to the european court of auditors. if you ask me right now, i would say that it is very difficult for me to leave this room where i really felt that together we can uphold all our principles and values. but let me especially thank my political group, the european people's party. the party that from the very beginning treated me as an equal among equals, even though i come from a small country. the party that continued to teach me universal principles and values. a party led by a man with a lot of money. i am passing it on to you knowingly and without any intention: the man who is leading the european people's party, my dear friend manfred weber, is the man who is imbued with all those principles and values of the european union and he really gave me all that impetus to love the european parliament and the european union which, you know, has a future and a perspective when it has people like manfred weber. my dear friends, in conclusion, i would like to say - and this message is also addressed to young people - that it is the european union that has given me, a politician who started as a refugee from the refugee camp, hunted by turkish troops, the opportunity to be among you carrying a powerful message. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. hold to these principles and values. i thank you from the bottom of my heart for all you've given me all these years. i'm grateful for your love, for your support, for your guidance. thank you so much for giving me this strength and this ability.
good luck, mr christoforou!
we move to the votes. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
council. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has just adopted amendments to the council’s position on the draft budget for the financial year 2023. i take note of the differences in the positions of our two institutions concerning the draft budget for 2023 presented by the commission. consequently, in my capacity as president of the council, i agree that the president of the european parliament convenes the conciliation committee as required in article 314(4)(c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. thank you very much for your attention.
i shall convene the conciliation committee, in accordance with article 314(4) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
madam president, dear colleagues, i think we all agree that the fight against anti—semitism must remain a top priority in the eu, but also in our external policy. and i think it’s important to underline today the crucial role of education in this respect. therefore, i would like to propose as an oral amendment to add the following text to paragraph 54: ‘calls on the commission to ensure that the resources for the southern neighbourhood are not being used for schoolbooks that do not adhere to the unesco standards of peace, co—existence, tolerance and mutual respect’.
mr president, i hear some of my colleagues saying: it's a matter of undermining, it's a matter of baseless criticism. no, it's not that! the point is that the far right is polluting the political debate with anti-feminist, anti-immigrant and anti-lgbt rhetoric. disgusting rhetoric that puts people off the edge of society. the far right won't admit it. but sometimes i think: they know what the fuck they're doing. i can tell you that as a woman of color, i have long been confronted with far-right terror, as a politician in the online domain. it's not safe for a lot of people online. you open your social media and there it is again: racism and sexism from the far right. polluting the debate, that's what the far right does. we need to make sure we name what the far right is doing: the exclusion of people and the exploitation and use of disgusting rhetoric. let us continue to speak out against it and make sure that it does not win and become the dominant force in our society.
the european recovery fund will make a large amount of money available to the member states over the next three years. that is good, because in that way europe can help to meet, for example, people's concerns about energy costs in a structural way in the future. but this requires careful allocation and control of reparation money. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's budget is properly used. it is therefore important that the concerns of the european court of auditors about this control be taken seriously. that means: clear criteria for the release of recovery funds, increased transparency on who the final recipients of those funds are and clear reporting on those recipients in an accessible european database. that kind of control over the use of european money is essential for the confidence of everyone in our european union.
madam president, mr president of the european court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, the report of the european court of auditors reveals an increase in suspicions of fraud in european union expenditure: 15 cases in 2021 compared to only six in 2020. this is a worrying observation. more generally, the report also notes a significant increase in the percentage of errors: 3% compared with 2.7. i think this increase is even more worrying than the increase in fraud, because it shows collective errors and not just individual ones. i want to give the example of the contracts for the purchase of covid vaccines. the court openly accuses the commission, and i quote, of not having checked adequately whether the financial conditions of those contracts had been respected. we are astonished to discover that the commission has placed blind faith in the vaccine manufacturers. it did not verify the accuracy of their production costs, the use of the advances they received, or whether they were covered by secret general disclaimer clauses. these overwhelming pages make it clear why the european parliament set up a committee of inquiry into the covid-19 pandemic on 10 march. i expect the commission to determine whether these surprising errors are merely serious negligence or whether they reveal a conflict of interest which is criminally reprehensible.
president, commissioner, we are facing important budgetary discussions. the budget must not be limited to the allocation of expenditure, but must also ensure the quality of that expenditure. both the pandemic and mr putin's mad warfare have left us with budgetary instruments outside the regular eu budget. i agree with the need to free up budgets in times of crisis, but the way we are working now carries great risks. for example, parliament cannot properly exercise its role of control. this applies both to the corona fund the recovery and resilience facility and to funds going to ukraine. there is no doubt that financial support for ukraine is absolutely necessary, but the money must be spent to achieve the objectives pursued and it must of course reach the vast majority of the ukrainian population. the reality is that this parliament is not sufficiently aware of this today. i am in favour of strengthening the parliament's control role in the interests of combating fraud and preventing the misuse of funds.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i wish mr murphy well on his new appointment and thank him for his annual report, which gives a positive assessment of the reliability of the eu accounts and the legality and regularity of the revenue. the commission is concerned about the increase in the estimated level of error in eu budget expenditure and the consequent negative opinion for the third year in a row. at such a difficult time, when war is increasing the risks to the eu budget, it is more necessary than ever to ensure that european funds are used correctly. the institutions, all the institutions, must therefore work to give the court's recommendations due effect, promote the sharing of best practice in controls by the member states, conduct more targeted ex ante checks and strengthen the monitoring of the application of the procurement rules. finally, i would like to thank the commission for the specific attention it has paid to the recovery and resilience facility, which is a key measure for providing financial support to the member states.
president, ladies and gentlemen, the court of auditors' recent findings on eu expenditure do not paint a rosy picture. of course, a 3% error rate is far too high. i am most concerned, however, about the corona aid fund, a fund which does not require any accountability for the actual costs incurred. it is only directed at what are sometimes very vague objectives. and even if they are not, the court of auditors notes that payment is made. in addition, there is no clear methodology for measuring performance. and where does the money end up anyway? apparently, society is not allowed to know that, because the final beneficiaries are not disclosed. this is gonna be different! let's make this more transparent! in the case of the agricultural funds, each final beneficiary is published. why don't we do that at the corona relief fund? i think that performance monitoring should also be improved. after all, it is taxpayers' money at stake and we must be frugal with it.
madam chair, commissioner, after the russian aggression in ukraine, the eu has finally woken up. now everyone sees why swift eu integration of the western balkans is key for our stability. i warmly welcome the recommendation of the european commission to grant bosnia a candidate status. we must actively support the country to work on the necessary reforms, but also to ensure the right council decision in due time. and, of course, it was high time for a breakthrough in the process with north macedonia and albania. bulgaria must now stick to its promise not to use its veto any longer in this process, and other member states have the responsibility to keep bulgaria to its promise. reliability and credibility should be eu trademarks. madam president, now it’s high time to translate our nice words into true commitment, not only for geopolitical reasons, but also because the citizens of the western balkans deserve this perspective. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – sir, i cannot comment on this specific incident. what i want to say is that bulgaria should also respect the copenhagen criteria. of course, there is a lot of work on better neighbourly relations. what i said is that you are an eu member state. you have gone through the accession process yourself. you know how important it is that the merits are being assessed, and the merits only. this is important for schengen accession, but it’s also important for the accession of north macedonia tow the eu. you have a responsibility yourself to make sure that the eu is reliable and credible, and that is what you should show to the citizens of the west.
madam president, finally, we have a very important proposal on fighting gender—based violence. but it is very important that this proposal works for all, and that all women are included. this is about intersectionality. so i really much wish that we pay attention to the victims of marital captivity. a lot of women were manipulated into a bad situation, and at the end they end up in their marriage, and they are captured and they cannot go anywhere. they cannot escape the situation, they are vulnerable for domestic violence, all kinds of violence they are vulnerable to. and also when it comes to honour—related violence, and this is something that we need to emphasise in the debate. this is something that we need to pay attention for, because this issue is in the dark. it is basically a shadow in this proposal, and it’s a dark reality for these women. it’s a difficult issue to detect, it’s a difficult issue to monitor. but this is exactly why we need to find solutions to detect this issue, and to protect women that are victims of marital captivity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, the effects of the last european council are already visible. we are seeing a fall in the price of gas. this proves two things: the first is that the speculative component is there and it's very relevant. the second is that the political response that europe is giving is the right one and that this was the answer that should have been given from the beginning. the package of proposals dismissed by the european council is the result of months and months of hard work: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the gas price corridors, the decoupling of electricity prices, joint purchases and the reform of the electricity market. all demands that mario draghi had put on the table long ago with determination. each country has tried to devise its own solutions to the crisis, but it is clear that individual initiatives are not enough and that a genuine european solidarity must be at the centre, both in terms of sharing gas and in terms of prices, all in the context of strengthening our energy independence. in this sense we expect the energy ministers to finally translate into concrete measures the political line decided by the european leaders. there's no going back on that. finally, we hope that the new italian government will put aside its electoral slogans and retain the authority necessary for italy to continue to play a central role, helping to create answers for businesses and citizens, thus supporting the ukrainian cause. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' speech)
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. mr president, colleague, i have seen you praise the work of the council and the decisions taken at the last council. that's the theme. and you said yes, they lowered the price of gas. do you know if the citizen's bill has dropped? because from the information i have, at least in my country, but maybe you tell me in italy what's going on, the citizens' bills are exactly the same price. there is no effect yet on the measures taken by the council. how can we solve this equation that you, here, you've shown is already solved?
the answer is "blue card". we know that consumer bills have not yet fallen, and neither have business bills. of course, we have to invest in two important factors: energy saving and investment in renewable energy and, at present, diversification of gas supply sources. that's what i think we're doing. we also need to stop speculation. as i said in my speech, the speculation on gas prices is very high and only a united europe can guarantee that this speculation is stopped.
mr president, at the last european council – and president michel mentioned this – there were lengthy discussions concerning eu relations with china, apparently with no definitive conclusions. but while the debate remains ongoing, chancellor scholz has rushed to visit china to promote stronger bilateral trade relations, leaving aside the wider european agenda. we see how china is becoming an increasingly assertive superpower, internally implementing aggressive nationalist policies that involve gross human rights violations. we also see how other big powers, indeed partners of our own, such as the us, surpass us when it comes to protecting their technological sovereignty. if we have learned anything from our relations with putin’s russia, it is that strategic dependencies upon authoritarian regimes are extremely problematic and very difficult to redress, and that we need a single eu policy, not 27, when dealing with others. so it’s time to agree on a clear and unified eu strategy towards china that allows us to strengthen our strategic autonomy and to be consistent with our fundamental values.
the economic crisis is continuing. the rising cost of energy is seeping into the prices of everything else, from food to goods, resulting in monster inflation and a looming recession. the european council is not talking about what is needed in the face of the energy shortage, namely increasing supply, but about reducing energy. in germany, all nuclear power stations will be closed in april, and the same is threatening to happen in belgium. in france, half the nuclear power stations are out of operation for maintenance and in the netherlands gas production is being further reduced. the eu is creating a bigger energy deficit than it needs. we are in an energy crisis because most of the world is against both our own fossil energy and nuclear energy and russian energy. you can either want affordable and reliable energy, or you can want woke energy sources, or you can want a boycott of russia. only two of the three are possible. the energy supply, which is the most important thing for most europeans, is dying. it is our duty to ensure the well-being and safety of our citizens and businesses. affordable and reliable energy is a basic need. our only option is to use all the energy sources we have: coal, gas and nuclear energy. citizens and businesses are demanding action. the european union must get rid of its pink cloud, renounce its green ideology and guarantee energy security. (the president declared the motion for a resolution adopted)
replica in accordance with the blue card procedure. thank you, mr president, you mentioned that food is expensive. do you not think that in the food sector, where the energy price has also started to rise, there is a lot of speculation in the supply of fertilisers, the supply of means of production, the sale and processing of food? should not similar measures be introduced now, as in the energy sector, both by taxing additional profits and, of course, by setting price ceilings for basic foodstuffs? what do you think?
blue card reply. we need to produce a lot more energy. we have been rapidly cutting down reliable sources of energy in europe, particularly fossil fuels, and we have stopped nuclear energy. this is causing great problems at the moment. energy is a basic need that is intertwined with everything. for example, we need energy for every production process and the production of fertilisers, for example, requires gas. we must not therefore disturb the market any further, as we have done with energy production, by granting all kinds of subsidies and favouring renewable energy. we must let the market do its job. it is precisely the intervention of the european union, with all its ideologies, that has created major problems. let us let the market do its job, provide enough energy and not try to eliminate reliable energy sources even further. that's just not gonna work.
in writing. national recovery and resilience plans have been a central pillar of our response to the economic and social consequences of the pandemic, but the energy crisis we are facing today requires an approach that allows them to be adapted to the current context. through the amendments i drafted, which were approved in the committees responsible, i provided for the possibility of amending the national plans so that they are optimized to counteract the effects of the war in ukraine and the related crises. we must ensure that the measures in question are implemented swiftly and that our amendments will make it possible to amend the national recovery plans more quickly, thus reducing the time for the commission to examine the amendments requested by the member states. at the same time, europeans in energy poverty are the most affected by rising energy prices, with significant consequences for living standards and health. the commission has also identified a number of areas where the union's response to climate change could be more effective, such as the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from transport. we also ensured that we will have measures that contribute to improving energy efficiency and included references to investment schemes specifically targeting vulnerable households, smes and micro-enterprises.
in writing. the unprecedented and unprovoked russian aggression against ukraine has shown us that the union's energy security is far from being at the required level and that reliance on a single source of energy is unacceptable. the need to make a rapid transition to clean energy in line with the eu's 2030 climate goals and its objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 has never been more urgent. the eu imports 90% of its gas, with russia still providing around 6%. the key objective of the repowereu plan is to reduce the union's energy dependency. high prices and risks of disruption of energy supply threaten the economic outlook, have a negative impact on small and medium-sized enterprises and weaken the territorial cohesion of all member states. moreover, volatile energy prices could undermine the competitiveness of businesses and deepen inequalities and energy poverty, in particular among vulnerable low- and middle-income households. it is in our interest to increase the share of renewable energy in the energy mix and to take measures to address labour shortages and skills or infrastructure gaps. this proposal, which aims to strengthen our capacity, to support reforms and investments aimed at diversifying energy supplies, including fossil fuels, and thus also to strengthen the union's strategic autonomy in parallel with an open economy, is therefore of the utmost importance.
the adaptation of the regulations associated with the implementation of the repowereu initiative to the new circumstances caused by the impact of the invasion of ukraine by russia and the strategy applied by the invading power, using energy as a weapon of blackmail and war, is timely and necessary. the amendments under discussion are a possible compromise, in a context of enormous difficulty, between the need to secure supply and, at the same time, to continue the effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to combat climate warming and to mitigate its effects. i would stress the possibility of financing projects aimed at alleviating energy poverty. i would also stress the increased involvement of civil society and local and regional authorities in the definition of action plans. in addition, the emergency regulation announced by the european commission to de-bureaucratize the licensing of new projects for the production, storage, transport and distribution of renewable energy, coupled with a new common model of guarantees to facilitate their financing, is an important contribution to preserving the environmental and sustainable development ambition associated with the initiative.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on ensuring availability and affordability of fertilisers (2022/2933(rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for including this very important point on the agenda. the communication was adopted today and thank you that, just after adoption, we have the possibility to present this communication to the european parliament. the inspiration for this communication came from the european parliament. i would like to thank you for that. fertiliser prices, fertiliser costs, this is a very sensitive problem for our farmers. i would like to present the free numbers about the price of fertilisers. the increase of the price for nitrogen fertilisers: 149 %, when comparing september 2021 with 2022. the increase of the price for phosphate rock: 254 % compared to the 2016-2020 average. the increase of the price for potash minerals, compared with the same period: 141 %. we can observe the increase of input costs for the farmers. according to eurostat data, comparing the second quarter of 2021 to the second quarter of 2022, the increase in agricultural input costs is almost 40 %. this is the eu average. at the same time, the increase of the agricultural output, the price of the agricultural products, is about 25 %. the increase of the price of products does not compensate for the farmers’ increase of input costs. only in three member states can we observe that the increase of inputs was compensated by increase of the output. these are estonia, romania and the czech republic. in the rest of the countries there is a negative balance for the farmers. this is the reason that we need to propose action, and this is the substance of our communication adopted today. what we propose in this communication, the commission points out that the member states may prioritise the continued and uninterrupted access to natural gas for fertiliser producers in their national emergency plan in the event of gas rationing in line with the commission communication ‘save gas for a safe winter’. the fertiliser industry can be included in the emergency plan as a sensitive sector. state aid, this is what we mentioned in our communication. we have opened a temporary crisis framework for state aid, which enables a specific support for farmers and fertiliser producers. we increased the possible amount so that now there is eur 150 million for the companies, fertiliser producers, and eur 250 000 for one individual farm. i can say that this, that this state aid used from march, when we opened this this possibility, the total amount of the state aid has been more than eur 450 billion, the majority of which – almost 90% – by two countries: germany and france. but this state aid for agriculture including the fertiliser sector is less than 1 % of this amount. we identified only 18 programmes with a total amount of eur 3.5 billion, which is less than 1 % of the total amount. state aid is open also for the fertiliser industry and also for farmers. funds generated by measures such as the cap on market revenues, certain electricity generators and the solidarity contribution provided for under union legislation can also be used – subject to the applicable conditions for purposes of national support schemes. this is the next opportunity. the crisis reserve. we are open also to this, and will discuss with the member states to use the crisis reserve, which is eur 450 million with possible co-financing by member states to use also for the farmers affected by this increase of fertiliser prices. i’d like to add that maybe this very important and concrete proposal, public authorities could, for instance, purchase fertilisers and offer them at lower prices to farmers. it will be treated not as a state aid and, with that, the price will be the same as when the public institution bought the fertilisers and offered this at the same price to the farmers – at a lower price than normally in the market. the commission will examine and discuss with member states how to best use the cap strategy plans to address the fertiliser situation. sustainable fertilisation measures should be implemented in an accelerated manner. the commission encourages member states to ensure that revisions of their plans are sufficiently programmed, as of now, to help farmers to use fertilisers more efficiently and sustainably. precision farming. this is an example. unfortunately, only six member states propose precision farming as an eco-scheme, but we recommend to use precision farming, which is a very important tool to use fertilisers in a more rational way. we are open to the amendment of the strategic plans and to use more precision farming to strengthen this support for this very good agricultural practice. it’s better for the investment to the precision farming because in 24 strategic plans this possibility was included. the commission will take steps to improve market transparency in the european union fertilisers market by way of the new market observatory to be established in 2023 and the organisation of regular stakeholder consultation in the framework of the expert group of the european food security and crisis mechanism. also important is better access to organic fertilisers and nutrients from recycled waste streams, especially in regions with a low usage of organic fertilisers, as is support for the conversion of the european nitrogen fertiliser industry to one based using renewable and fossil free hydrogen, and to assure that there is a stable and workable regulatory environment governing the production of renewable and low carbon hydrogen, thereby ensuring that the market for renewable and low—carbon hydrogen—based fertilisers can rapidly develop. distinguished members, they are the main proposals, which we present in the communication. i think it will be helpful to improve the situation because we fully understand that it’s the cost of the fertilisers now which is creating risk for food security in the future. this is our proposal. once again, thank you all for including this important point on today’s agenda.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you, commissioner, for the effort you have made to produce this communication and for presenting it now. and i think, particularly in terms of the medium and long-term solution of the problem, you have given some very valuable inputs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. if you add up the additional costs to farmers from higher energy and fertiliser costs, it comes to eur 45 billion this year. that is the whole of the cap, so to speak. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the implementation of the budget. this figure shows where the real problem lies. i think the real problem is that fertilizer is too expensive. and you make it a little bit easier if you just say, yes, energy costs are high, and that's why fertilizer is expensive. i'll give you some numbers. for example, a large german company, kali und salz, has increased its profit from a loss of 1.8 billion to a profit of 2.2 billion last year compared to 2020. borealis doubled its profits. yara paid a special dividend two weeks ago because they couldn't get rid of the money, and they also admitted in the report that they bought cheap urea and ammonia from all over the world and they were throwing a lot of money at the farmers in europe. and we have to. there are profits, there are speculative bubbles, there are oligopolies. and i think if we really want to tackle this issue, we have to tackle this issue and we have to look at how we can bring down the costs overall in europe.
i would like to thank you for bringing this communication. i think that was a demand we had made in this house and i thank you for the effort you have made in bringing a proposal here today. my group and i believe that it is important that there should be a supply of fertilisers. it is very important, not just for farmers; it is important to be able to have food, if possible at affordable prices, for all citizens. that's important, you know. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. i would like to know the answer to this specific question: will we be able to use organic fertilisers and will there be a change in the directive to allow this? because it's not possible yet. and i want to congratulate you, because i think the proposal is interesting. i don't know if it's enough, but it's very interesting.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner, thank you very much for this information. it is a good sign that the prices and availability of fertilisers on the eu market have been recognised as a problem. the market observation centre can also be useful. i am not sure how we can help farmers quickly. the reference to the cap is well-intentioned, i think, but it seems to me that the cap will be like a christmas tree covered with so many bullets that our branches will break. what we need is reliability in production and prevention of crop failures. nitrogen and phosphorus must be considered separately. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used in a sustainable manner. it must be the aim of all of us to ensure the quantity, quality and security of the sustainable supply of the highest quality food within the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products. and for me, food inflation is a huge social explosive. i do not see the long-term strategy for fertilisers in europe in this communication. commissioner, we are happy to cooperate.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i wish to welcome the commissioner here to the plenary. my colleague dorfmann has already said it: we’re having fertilizer companies across the european union that are having windfall profits, enormous profits, as we have not seen before. so why should we now use taxpayers’ money to support these companies? luckily, our farmers had production prices for their goods which were substantially higher than in the years before. you mentioned that in many countries they were overweighting the additional costs of energy and fertilizer. so there’s a pretty okay income situation in most of our countries. so why would you actually stop the diversification from artificial fertiliser to agro-ecological methods? high fertilizer prices are finally bringing our farmers to change their production methods, to use more leguminosae, to use crop rotation, to invest in a healthy soil. it’s healthy soil that will provide us with food security in the upcoming years – a soil that is able to keep water, to keep the carbon and to sustain our plants without becoming dependent on russian energy, on the import of substances from abroad. it’s the independent agriculture, the self-sufficient agriculture that keeps our food security in the european union, and why are we actually taking windfall profits of the energy companies to share them with the fertilizer companies? no, they are meant to help citizens to pay their high energy bills. yes, also farmers to pay their high energy bills, but i can’t really follow your strategy and don’t understand in times of climate crisis why we are still supporting artificial fertiliser.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the exponential rise in the price of fertilisers puts european farmers in a very worrying situation. the commission seems to have taken stock of the seriousness of the crisis, but its reactions are disappointing. it has just made it possible for the member states of the union to provide financial support to farms to the tune of eur 250 000. this is a welcome emergency measure, but it will not be enough, and the commission seems to be struggling to imagine other short-term solutions. it is thus reluctant to use the 2023 crisis reserve, which seems to me to be designed to deal with this kind of event. on the other hand, and most importantly, it has just refused to lift the surcharges imposed in 2019 on fertilisers from trinidad and tobago and the united states, even though this lifting had been requested by copa and cogeca, which represent a very large number of european farmers. the urgency is not to think about a european medium-term fertiliser strategy, as the commission has just done in its communication of 9 november, which is a good communication, but to help farmers as quickly as possible.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. she is looking for fertilizer in oman, turkmenistan and qatar, whereas the solution is largely just waiting to be found in the eu: renure, nutrients from animal manure that we can recycle ourselves into high-quality, renewable fertilisers. despite all the fine words, the commission has again left this solution unused. the footnotes in the text are not misleading: if the conditions applied by the commission do not change, fertiliser substitutes will not take off in many parts of the eu. now, finally, give circularity a real chance. ensure that the announced integrated nutrient management action plan effectively allows for fertiliser substitutes. at the moment, the only thing on offer is an empty case.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, this parliament has an ambitious agenda for sustainability in the broadest sense of the word, from curbing emissions under the green deal to improving minimum wages, ensuring responsible investing or achieving gender equality on company boards. but those ambitions around sustainability, they cannot be achieved without companies playing their part. and for that, we need quality information and transparency, because if we ask companies to be greener, we need to be able to distinguish those that are truly green from those that are greenwashing. and if we ask investors to finance responsible companies rather than cowboy companies, then investors need a way of properly assessing and comparing what companies do. i am pleased that with our vote tomorrow on new and better reporting requirements, we can make a very practical and tangible contribution to sustainability. what we are doing here is urgent. it is timely, because our climate problem won’t wait, and i want to warmly thank pascal durand for the result we have been able to achieve under his energetic leadership.
mr president, we live in a world where digital surveillance has become common. cctv and face recognition are part of our daily lives, whether we want it or not. however, we fail to understand and address how these already uncomfortable circumstances can become very dangerous for members of racialised groups. there is ample evidence that artificial intelligence tools heavily discriminate against black people and people of colour in general, and women of colour in particular. after all, ai is built by humans and deployed in systems and institutions that have been marked by entrenched discrimination, from law enforcement to housing, to the workplace, to our financial systems. and this racial bias is even in the data used to train the ai data that is often discriminatory or unrepresentative for people of colour, women and other marginalised groups and can rear its head throughout the ai’s design, development, implementation and use. therefore, i want to state that the monitoring of racial bias as proposed in this report is not enough. we need a clear directive that specifically states that institutional racism is unlawful. only then we can make sure that victims of unlawful discrimination get justice.
madam president, i see that we have visitors here, and i think it’s parliament’s sad honour to welcome you to this end of the year budget showdown. it’s brought to you against the backdrop of widespread reports that the commission will soon be approving hungary’s recovery plan. so, for our visitors, on the one hand, you’ve got the european parliament, on the other you have hungary. and, frustratingly for us, the outcome of whether hungary is to receive billions in european funds will be determined by eu member states and the european commission and not by us. which is why, once again, we urge them to take a long—term view here that is respectful of those hungarians who are hoping for a return to democracy and respectful to the foundations of our union. now, the british have this great phrase and it’s ‘putting lipstick on a pig’ and, in this case, the pig is a captured, illiberal state that is deeply dependent on and intertwined with corruption and the lipstick is the proposed hungarian integrity authority. now, let us be clear that no hastily put together anti—corruption body can be effective without an independent judiciary, and especially not if credible civil society organisations are being sidelined. being blackmailed into submission by hungary would not be embarrassing only but it would be short—termist. and i urge the european member states and the commission to take this very seriously because whether or not we unlock billions in taxpayer money for hungary, that’s not so much a test case for hungary, that’s a test case for the european union itself and how seriously we take the rule of law.
madam president, we heard mr infantino say the other day, indeed, that he feels many things, including being disabled, gay, a woman and a migrant worker. what i felt mainly there, and i think many colleagues here with me, was embarrassment. not only at his very ill-advised speech. because no matter how much progress was made in qatar – and progress was made – it’s not okay, and i’m going to state the obvious here, for people to die on building sites in their thousands, it’s not okay for people to be jailed for asking for their wages and it’s certainly not okay for the gay people that mr infantino says he feels for to have to live in fear that the death penalty will one day be enforced. now, i don’t think we are teaching anyone any moral lessons by being clear about those things. and contrary to what mr infantino thinks, it’s not quite incredible that if as a country you invite the world in to promote yourself, that you also get scrutinised by the world. now what we need for the future are serious, credible human rights commitments from host countries and fifa, and a serious duty of care for companies, including compensation. we might have a side dish of progress here today, but the main course of this world cup is human tragedy and embarrassment.
president, an important piece of legislation today, because protecting our critical infrastructure is very important. we've seen how vulnerable our energy infrastructure and our data infrastructure can be. but while we are here at the european level working on this legislation, member states are opening the back door wide to foreign influence. 22 european ports have entered into deals with chinese investors, handing over key control points in our supply chain to foreign powers. we need a european port strategy. we have to stop this sell-out of european ports. this means that we must work on a strategy in which our european ports can remain competitive without being dependent on foreign powers. because free trade is not the same as giving away our critical infrastructure. we have a responsibility to ensure our economic security for the future.
rapporteur. – mr president, colleagues, around 60% of graduates from our universities in europe are women. and yet, out of every 100 ceos of listed companies in europe, only eight are women. in my own country, the netherlands, often upheld as a progressive bastion, there are more ceos called peter than there are women ceos. and the reason for their underrepresentation in the boardroom is not a lack of merit or talent; it’s structural problems that disadvantage women in their careers, particularly when they want to take on leadership roles. spoiler alert: the law we have before us today won’t solve all of that. for that, we need quality and affordable childcare. we need better paternity leave. we need part-time work to become accepted for men. and let us not forget that most women work not at the top, but in jobs that are hugely undervalued and underpaid. but what we are doing today will be a step in the right direction. the law we are signing tomorrow aims at getting at least 40% of board positions of listed companies filled by women through better recruitment procedures with clearer criteria, more transparency and broader candidate pools. member states have until 2026 to achieve gender-balanced boards with measures put in place to make sure that they do. and i think we all stand to win. companies stand to benefit from looking more like the consumers they serve. it’s unsurprising that research has shown that companies with more diverse teams are more creative, more innovative and have better problem-solving abilities. diverse leadership, in turn, can lead to more productivity and more successful business operations. and yet, at the moment, only 3 in 10 board members in large eu corporations are women. zooming in on hungary, estonia and cyprus, that is 1 in 10. those boardrooms are not a good reflection of society, especially when we think of the fact that these companies are heavy hitters that take decisions that can impact all of us. as you may know, a lot of my work in this house is about how we make sure that companies don’t think only about their bottom line, but also about their place in society. in 2022, we expect more from companies, and that goes from gender equality to respect for human rights, climate change and the environment. that’s why i sincerely believe that we all stand to benefit from this: employees, consumers, citizens and, yes, companies themselves. if a member state recently introduced legislation, they still have to meet the targets we’re talking about today. otherwise, they are subject to this law. and that means that either way, all 27 member states will see more women in their boardrooms in the near future. that’s a big deal for europe, and certainly for the 18 countries in our eu without effective legislation. now, of course there are those who will say quotas won’t work and that this will lead to appointments based on gender rather than merit. i think it’s about time that we left that argument where it belongs – in the previous century. we’ve tried asking nicely. we’ve tried waiting for the old boys’ networks to die out and to no avail. quotas are a blunt instrument, yes. but where there’s a lack of will, you need a law. this law is a significant achievement and, frankly, a victory for all of those who have campaigned for it since 2012. and to them, i wish to pay tribute. most of all, though, i think today is a victory for girls, who, as we very well know, cannot be who they cannot see.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0177/97). we're finally going to have more women in key decision-making positions in a few years. it's about their future, it's about the future of a new generation. it's just fitting that in 2022, we as women are sitting at those tables to make decisions on important issues in society. it's more innovation and creativity. companies are only going to do better because there's more gender equality. and it's also profitable. how beautiful is that? women's leadership is profitable. in short, we're all going to benefit from it. there are companies that already understand that. that's very good, they're already working on it. thanks to this law, those companies are also seen and the companies that are already doing well are put on the list. the companies that aren't on it really need to do better. i'm proud of this proposal. i thank my colleagues for the excellent cooperation. and what a beautiful historical moment. let's celebrate that today.
the 'blue card' reaction. you just said: we are trying to regulate the world, and you were shy about that. you also said: we're trying to create the ideal world here. i am trying to do that, and you mentioned two of my projects, women on board and sustainability legislation. so my question to you is: why did you become a member of parliament? if that's not to create that ideal world, why is it?
the 'blue card' reaction. i have a question for you, your excellency. what exactly are you saying about the usefulness of a quota? because i hear you say that we should accept that there are gender-specific characteristics and we should accept that they play a role in certain sectors. but you are aware that the companies we are talking about, the organizations we are talking about, in principle, have nothing to do with gender specific characteristics. are they just large multinationals in many sectors in many fields where both men and women should play an active role? the problem is that there is a "we know we know" politics of friendship. it has nothing to do with the fact that women can't be at the top of such a big, powerful consulting firm. so what exactly are you saying? because i really think you're thinking wrong.
blue-card speech. – i heard a lot about what is not actually possible, what actually should not be done, and then you end up with the conclusion that we need fair competition. like, seriously, how do we reach fair competition? if we have the conclusion now that women significantly lag behind, like how do you want to intervene in the first place on that specific fact? so i wonder, how would you like to organise fair competition if women significantly lag behind already? what will be your first intervention? i’m fine with listening to the whole speech about what is not possible or about how bad this idea is, but then come with a concrete solution. i would like to hear how we organise that fair competition with the facts that we have in place now.
blue-card speech. – yes, my question was very similar. i don’t understand at all what i just heard. i think you spoke about education. i think you spoke about how we need better schooling. and the facts – we laid them on the table for you earlier. we have 60% of female graduates in our european universities. and then at the end of the day, we have 8% of female ceos. that shows very clearly that something is going terribly wrong along the way. so i don’t understand at all what you were saying about how we need better education or better schooling, because the schooling is absolutely not the problem. the schooling is a big success story. it’s what happens afterwards that’s a problem and that’s what we are trying to fix today. so please, can you clarify, because that was very, very confusing?
blue-card speech. – madam president, so, you know, this is just this famous common argument that it is about knowledge. it’s about expertise. like, seriously, do you really think that we would attract women for such positions if they would not have the knowledge, talent and competencies? of course, you know, we will look for competent women. that’s not the issue here. we have enough women who are competent. the issue is that constantly men choose their men. men choose their preferences. you need to be in that old-boys network to become one of those. that’s the issue here. it’s a cultural problem why these women are not being seen. and you know that it’s not an issue of women lacking competencies. we have enough women with competencies. so it’s a false argument. the argument here should be that we neglect, we ignore women with competencies. and the issue is how do we get them in the positions that they deserve? and i did not hear anything about a concrete solution. so also for you to question what is your solution?
rapporteur. – madam president, so colleagues, after ten years of obstruction, that’s a wrap! it has taken three commissioners, five parliament rapporteurs and 21 council presidencies to get this done. and we persisted in spite of all the obstruction. since the adoption of our parliament position back in 2013, i have lost count of how many resolutions were adopted on this very topic and how many times this european parliament called to member states to come back to the negotiating table. we faced every kind of obstacle from member states, from those who oppose legislating on gender equality out of principle, to those who believe that they’ve done enough already or that time would simply fix things. companies in member states must now get to balanced boardrooms, and if they fail we will be able to hold them to their commitments. i am very proud of what we have in front of us today, and i want to very warmly thank my colleague evelyn regner. i want to thank commissioner dalli present here today. commissioner viviane reding, who worked on this previously, ursula von der leyen, who personally committed herself to this fight, and all those others who contributed to our success today.
madam president, mr high representative, the question is: can we have normal relations with a country whose regime oppresses its people and organizes a genocide against the uyghurs? two years ago, the european commission, chancellor merkel and president macron all said yes by celebrating the investment agreement with china. a few days ago, chancellor scholz also answered in the affirmative, considering that 12 million german cars were more than 12 million uyghurs. well, that is not the view of the european parliament. take the example of forced labour. when the european commission proposes a gas plant, which we do not understand if it will be effective against forced labour, the european parliament calls for an embargo on products derived from forced labour. the european parliament proposes that forced labour be regarded as a state policy of the chinese regime. so what we, the european parliament, are asking the european commission to do is to do politics too. it is not naivety, mr high representative, it is greed when we want to do business at the expense of our values. so, in the face of forced labor, let's make a real embargo, including on products from xinjiang.
mr president, the chinese investment in the port of hamburg has put us in the dark. president xi's aggressive investment agenda with only one goal: to become the most powerful country in the world. it puts europe in a particularly dependent and therefore vulnerable position. europe is thus becoming a wing of china, a totalitarian state where human rights such as freedom of religion are trampled underfoot. the concentration of power at the recent communist party congress does not bode well in this respect. that 's why we have to act now . we can no longer let china divide us; stop chinese takeovers of our vital infrastructure, such as agricultural land; we are much more critical of our raw materials. a north sea full of windmills powered by chinese supermagnets is not an attractive idea for me.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear commissioner, russian aggression has led to a revived appetite to enlargement and rightfully so. without our neighbouring countries, we will not achieve strategic autonomy and regional stability. but the region has been neglected for too long. promises have been broken, in particular towards the western balkans. parliament has now made a strong proposal and i thank the rapporteur and my co-shadows. i invite the council and commission to take this report as a basis for a renewed approach and i mark three points here. first, put the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights at the core of the enlargement process as they form the foundations of our union. make funding conditional and increase assistance for those reforms – and that also means a critical stance on serbia, as long as president vučić refuses to condemn russia and to protect the rights of lgbtiq people in his country. second, enhance the eu’s credibility by ensuring that assessments are merit-based and not polluted by bilateral issues. and that means an end to the vetoes on interim decisions. and third, we need to find ways to intensify our cooperation while the accession process is still ongoing. more benefits and more involvement will stimulate the process. it’s time to start delivering our promises for our own stability, but first and foremost – as you also said, commissioner – because the citizens deserve the required reforms and concrete perspective to accession.
mr president, dear commissioners, dear representatives of the council and colleagues, frontex estimates the number of illegal entries into the eu this year already at more than 280 000. this is up by 77% from last year and the highest figure since 2016. this high number is posing fast challenges for the eu and some member states in particular. in the netherlands, belgium and austria we have seen severe consequences, with overburdened asylum systems forcing asylum seekers to spend the night outside. there is a real risk the citizens lose faith in the eu’s ability to control migration. and i repeat again: our citizens expect that we are in control. the commission’s focus on the benefits of legal migration in the state of the union in september is therefore also out of place. colleagues, as standards are becoming lower, we risk facing an immigration policy doom loop. we can break the cycle by focusing on the external dimension. pressure on external borders should be alleviated by engaging with third countries to counter irregular migration. colleagues, migration should be the top of our mind. first, a commission vice—president should be fully dedicated to address the external dimension of migration on a day—to—day basis and by using also all relevant policy areas needed. second, we need to break the race to the bottom among member states because no solidarity can be expected when secondary movements remain unaddressed. that means also enforcement of the current legislation. and third, we should be pragmatic in our negotiations and adopt new legislative files, including also the screening regulation, eurodac and a revision of the schengen borders code. this is how we must make progress. we cannot let another parliamentary mandate pass without having real results to show our citizens. no new plans or fancy words, but actions and results are what our citizens expect from us.
mr president, dear council, commissioners, when persons are in distress at sea, every minute counts. yet coastal states refuse to fulfil their international obligation to rescue them and disembark them in their ports. they instrumentalise people whose life is at risk in a cynical attempt to push for solidarity. yes, we urgently need a fair distribution of asylum seekers, we’ve called for that for years, but the lack of it can never be an excuse to play with people’s lives. and how cynical is it that ngos filling this gap and saving lives are criminalised, whereas the states violating their obligation enjoy impunity. the new action plan doesn’t change that. it repeats what we already know isn’t working. we don’t need more migration deals that lead to the containment of people in hell: look at libya. instead, we must prioritise saving lives and upholding the right to seek asylum. and i call on the commission to act as a real guardian of the treaty: design a common response to end the brutal death zone; fund and coordinate a state-led search—and—rescue mission; and force member states to take their responsibility. and none of this, of course, will be successful without fair responsibility—sharing and mandatory relocation. i once again urge member states to prioritise solidarity and end this deadly race to the bottom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been letting the asylum and migration package rot for seven years. and in seven years, it has intoxicated and polarized our view. by failing to solve a common problem, social problems have been generated which some people try to solve brazenly, against our own laws, while others live in a world of voluntary dreams. and those who should be pragmatic and lead - the governments - do not show the face, not enough, do not lead, do not say clearly how far they can go together. commissioners, i know that you are doing what you can, but the will is lacking in the council. the no will. and the incoherence of the non-system, of not having a system, is fueling social division and frustration. and people keep dying. we have given asylum to many people - that's true - but we have also lost thousands of opportunities to manage better, to improve many of our towns and cities. and by not managing it properly, we've let people who just want a chance and work hard, many of them very hard, be equated with people who are abusing the system. i would like to think that the mediterranean plan can help the council to think, but i have my doubts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, i am sick of hearing the complaints of the political greens and the political left, who have been lobbying for mass migration for many years and are the real cause of the problems facing europe today. i've been a member of this house since 2014, and 2015 was the most important year on immigration issues to date, and it's gotten worse every year. today, in 2022, we are facing the situation that it is the worst situation ever more than in 2015. since 2015, six million people have sought refuge in europe, two-thirds of them without refugee status under the convention, and three-quarters of them without subsidiary or humanitarian protection. but they're all staying here in europe, and that's the problem. this is where europe fails. the schengen agreement is failing, the dublin agreement is failing. what we need is effective border control. what we need is to keep schengen in place until the problems are solved. and we need to help the people on the ground, to help them in the region, instead of bringing them all to europe.
mr president, illegal immigration into europe is reaching record levels. this is changing the character of our continent and not necessarily for the better. we have to stop it now. these are three things the eu can do from today: firstly, frontex should not take immigrants to europe, but return them to the country from which they came. pushbacks must become eu policy. the second. like denmark, we must conclude agreements with third countries such as rwanda. asylum seekers arriving in europe are sent to these third countries. they're waiting there for their asylum application. those who enter europe illegally are never welcome again. this will greatly reduce the flow. the third. help member states that want to fight immigration. i am thinking, for example, of the courageous italian government of prime minister meloni. we can do this today. get to work. and finally, because some of you have yet to hear it, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in a changing world, people are looking for security. it is our responsibility as politicians to provide that security wherever possible. this is also important in the energy sector. energy is a public good that we have left far too much to the market in recent years. so for me, three things are important right now. first of all: let us take measures to increase that security. a european price ceiling on gas purchases is therefore also a bad idea, because it puts our security of supply at risk. we can therefore see in the commission's proposal, between the lines, that the commission itself is reluctant to do so. secondly: let us seek better european cooperation in energy production and purchasing. let's make better connections between us. and let us also make it clear that the choice one makes in one country to close a nuclear power plant, for example, affects the energy security of another country. there can be no solidarity without each country also taking its own responsibility in the common interest. and thirdly: let's make sure we don't roll one dependency into the other. russia is using energy as a weapon against us. let us make sure that weapon of dependence never again falls into the hands of another.
it is hard to believe that one in three women worldwide has experienced physical, psychological or sexual violence. in the netherlands, in my own member state, eight women die every day as a result of violence. these are not just statistics, these are people's lives. think of 16-year-old humeyra who was shot dead at school. she and her sisters called the police 28 times in the last seven months of her life. clarinda, a 34-year-old woman who was stabbed to death in den bosch by her ex-partner. a 45-year-old woman, debora from mijdrecht, who has made several complaints against her ex and was eventually killed by him at home. we are talking about an epidemic of femicide, and women who ring the bell are not helped or at least not helped in time. it's over with this invisible fight. it's really unacceptable. we must now have a proposal that actually protects women. it is no longer possible that they do not dare to report or that if they do report, they do not act immediately. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. i hope that we are all aware that women are still experiencing this every day and every second. now is the time to intervene.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, what we want as the lgbti community is equality: to be treated as equals in our society and to be equal by law. whilst this may be portrayed by some conservatives as the end of the world, for us these are lifesaving laws. imagine your child needs a lifesaving operation, but you as a parent are not allowed to give consent for this operation, because you travelled to another country that doesn’t recognise your parenthood. today, the lgbti intergroup had the honour to hear first—hand a horror story of two mothers who can’t make their baby girls meet their grandfathers because of discriminatory administrative hurdles. and the european court of justice has already ruled that bulgarian authorities have to give baby sara a birth certificate. but now, while she’s almost three, it still hasn’t happened. that’s why we urge the european commission to take action. we need to make sure national authorities listen to these rulings of the european court of justice and get children out of this administrative limbo, but we also need to move fast on new legislation for the baby saras of this world and all our rainbow families, because what we want is equality.
author. – mr president, commissioner, the situation in afghanistan continues to be a hell after the taliban takeover. and since our resolution in april, the lives of afghans have even turned worse. women and girls face horrible repression. they are excluded from public life to such an extent that it amounts to gender apartheid. minorities are brutally attacked. day by day, flagrant human rights violations take place without any accountability. the humanitarian situation is equally dramatic. nearly half of the population faces acute food insecurity, and this will only increase. so i call on the eu and the un to step up humanitarian aid and make engagement with the taliban conditional on the respect for human rights, but refrain from legitimising this ruthless criminal gang; hold them accountable and extend the sanctions list. mr president, the human rights defenders, journalists, judges – all who are targeted by the taliban need our help to leave the country. but the opposite is happening: afghan refugees are stuck in unsafe transit countries. many arrivals in europe are left in limbo despite the reality that they cannot return. so member states: stop these senseless and inhuman policies. afghans deserve our help inside and outside the country. bring them in safety and offer them sustainable protection, don’t leave them alone.
the next item is the debate on the commission communication on the protection of livestock and large predators in europe (2022/2952 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for adding this important debate on today’s agenda. let me start by reassuring this house that the commission takes this issue very seriously and that we are looking at how best to address it, and i’ll try to describe that as thoroughly as i can. i apologise in advance if i go a bit over the time allocated. since the beginning of this mandate, we have been in dialogue with stakeholders, with regional authorities and members of this house to discuss how livestock farming can be better protected from large carnivores, especially where it is particularly exposed. i know that this parliament shares the commitment to protecting europe’s biodiversity, its habitats and species and that it is fully conscious of the sense of urgency. as regards the wildlife species covered by the habitats directive, the 2020 report on the state of nature in the eu highlighted that favourable conservation status has only been reached in less than one third of the cases – less than one third of cases. also, from the worldwide fund for nature’s living planet report 2022, we recently learned of a 69% global decline in populations of wild mammals, birds, fish, reptiles and amphibians since 1970. but we also learned that wild nature is resilient and can recover under the right conditions. the new wildlife comeback in europe report, released by rewilding europe on 27 september 2022, shows improvements in populations and the distribution of several iconic species, such as the beaver, alpine ibex, grey seal, black stork and wolf. let me assure you, the commission is fully aware that the return of large carnivores such as the wolf, the brown bear and the lynx is, in some regions in europe, a challenge. while predation by large carnivores may not be considered a key driver of abandonment of livestock farming in european mountain areas, or cannot be blamed for the demographic challenges of rural areas, it is a particular challenge for livestock grazing in areas where these species have long been absent. it is equally clear that livestock farmers need to be adequately supported. it is essential to address this additional challenge and to implement appropriate livestock protection practices to reduce the risks of predation. we believe that it is possible to ensure the continuation of sustainable livestock farming systems and the conservation of large carnivores. both play an important role for the conservation of european ecosystems. i would like to recall at this point the letter sent by commissioners wojciechowski and sinkevičius to all agriculture and environment ministers in november last year, urging them to make the best use of available eu and national funding opportunities. under the new common agricultural policy strategic plans, the european agricultural fund for rural development can provide support for preventive actions and investments aimed at mitigating the risk of damage by large carnivores to livestock farming. it also provides for measures on training, advice and cooperation between rural actors aimed at ensuring coexistence. these activities can be funded up to 100% of their costs. several member states are already making use of this possibility and have included targeted interventions in their strategic plans. the commission can support many of these actions through the life programme. examples include the implementation of protection measures for livestock, setting up of emergency teams, the establishment of volunteer and ambassador networks to assist livestock farmers and the promotion of a participatory approach with the active involvement of all the parties concerned. in addition, eu state aid rules allow member states to compensate up to 100% of the direct and indirect costs of damage caused by protected species. it is also possible to finance up to 100% of preventive instruments. in order to find the most suitable coexistence solutions, measures should be elaborated and implemented with the involvement of the stakeholders concerned and should be tailored to specific local needs and priorities. i think that this approach is fully in line with the requests expressed by the european parliament in its resolution on the eu biodiversity strategy for 2030. member states or regions within member states do have a means to act. i would like to stress that eu nature legislation includes the possibility for member states to authorise individual derogations to the strict protection regime. several member states make use of this possibility. it nevertheless remains important to recall that this option exists. responsibility to apply these provisions, including for the removal of specimens of protected species, lie solely with the competent authorities of the member states. one year ago, the commission adopted a new guidance document focusing on the strict protection of the species covered by the habitats directive. in it, it clarified the possibilities and conditions for derogations in line with the case law of the eu court of justice. as regards the monitoring of large carnivores and assessment of their conservation status, the wolf and other large carnivores are among the most intensively monitored species in europe. a comprehensive and harmonised system is already in place to assess and report the conservation status of all protected species at european level. although monitoring remains a task for the relevant national authorities, the commission encourages trans-boundary coordination in the monitoring of those species whose populations are shared by several member states. member states can make use of available eu funds under the life programme or under cohesion policy to improve their monitoring systems. the commission is keeping the legal and policy frameworks under regular review. current eu environmental and agricultural legislation provides member states with important instruments, funds and tools to ensure that the conservation of protected large carnivores and the continuation of sustainable farming practices and public safety can go hand-in-hand. numerous experiences, including in the framework of life projects, have demonstrated that adaptation is feasible and it can work, and that we need to encourage and promote the sharing of good practices. honourable members, i hope you find these clarifications helpful. i can assure you that the commission is actively monitoring the issue at various levels and that, based on that monitoring, we will assess whether further measures are needed.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in 1992, when the wolf and other large predators - the brown bear, the lynx - were protected in the eu by the habitats directive, these species were virtually extinct in the european union. today, 30 years later, this directive has proved successful. all these species are back in the habitats of the european union but unfortunately they are also creating problems. coexistence between grazing animals and large predators is difficult and in some areas, such as alpine pastures, probably impossible. and to all those who keep talking about these beautiful projects - and you, commissioner, have just said this - and say that there is great coexistence, i ask: where are they? i've been asking for years, i haven't found it. and i think they just exist more in the minds of people who don't have to watch their animals day and night or clean up a slaughterhouse after an attack. the perfectly protected wolf is opposed by the perfectly unprotected sheep or goat. the current protection status is simply no longer necessary in many regions. we have stable populations now, and they will continue to exist even with reduced protection - experience shows that. and we will only achieve widespread acceptance of these species if we also face these facts and do not prevent management from doing so with ideological fanaticism. and finally, of course, there is also a need for a greater commitment to coexistence and herd protection. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if our citizens want wolves, bears and lynx in our forests, then they must pay for them and not hold up farmers to these costs. they must then pay for the costs and also for the damage with their own tax money.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, this debate on behalf of european farmers is welcome and a joint resolution by six political groups is welcome. because it shows unity and strength to defend the necessary coexistence of livestock - which is experiencing a difficult coexistence, as the livestock farmers have been denouncing - in this protection of large carnivores and their increase. they are certainly carnivores and this has an impact on livestock farming, on livestock farming such as extensive farming, which is the one protected by the european green deal. and so that's the main one that's been hurt. my group therefore advocates peaceful coexistence. but we can't have the ranchers losing. that is why we must take measures. and this debate had to be held. the ranchers deserve it. we had to have this debate and we have to defend it tomorrow. i ask all the groups to support the resolution and none of the amendments tabled, because i believe that strength lies in the common union. what hasn't been taken out on a negotiating table... there's no point in trying to come up with a game strategy. we support the resolution of the six political groups, out of respect for livestock.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the return of species that were once extinct is a success of conservation. but coexistence means that both sides have a right to exist. the farmers and especially the animals suffer massively from the attacks of wolves and in some places bears. the ever-increasing number of deadly attacks on sheep, horses, cattle and calves must no longer be silenced. the responsible authorities and conservationists will be happy to turn a blind eye. of course, the pictures and videos are not a pretty sight. but i do know that when the wolf comes, the pasture leaves, and with it many species of plants, insects and bees. the farmers have felt abandoned for years. this can't go on. i therefore appeal to you: we must improve support for prevention and compensation, and that is not the task of the common agricultural policy but of the conservation budget. commissioner, please review the annexes to the habitats directive and revise the guidelines on the use of flexibilities so that there is less confusion and more clarity here!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. first off, wolves don't eat your grandmother, and wolves don't eat your kids on the way to the school bus. this is a panic attack by some members of the övp, by some members of the farmers' union. and what does the austrian peasant federation mean by wolf-free zones? do we want to eradicate the wolf in austria again? i think that these contributions are not good contributions to a proper debate, because that is exactly what we need here. the wolf's resettlement in the eu is a success for nature and wildlife conservation undeniable. at the same time, the wolf is a real challenge for farmers, especially those who are grazing, who are farming in a particularly climate-friendly and environmentally friendly way, especially those farmers who live in mountain areas and in areas of the union where the population is less concentrated. we must be aware that nature conservation is a task for society as a whole, and that society as a whole has a responsibility to take on. we must work together to ensure that our grazing livestock is well protected, and we must work together to ensure that our farmers do not pay the price, but are given the maximum possible support in safeguarding their livestock and also in safeguarding their income, because these farms are often the ones who earn the least in our country. conservation and agriculture go hand in hand. we need concrete action on both sides, and to develop these concrete actions we have come together in a joint resolution, and we have to deliver, and i thank you here for the good cooperation and the joint six-party motion.
on behalf of the group of the european right president, ladies and gentlemen, nothing is more tedious than working with outdated legislation. and that's exactly what's happening with the wolf. designated a protected species 30 years ago because it was on the verge of extinction. but the situation is completely different now. europe now has more than 21 000 wolves. with all the consequences. in my country, the netherlands, as in drenthe, we see sheep, calves and ponies being slaughtered almost daily. i warn you: if we do nothing, in ten years we'll be looking at a deserted countryside. no farmer would dare let his cattle run outside. is that what we want? or a country full of high fences that clever wolves can get around? let's face the facts. active management is inevitable. so far the european commission has always said that governments should only apply for or grant exemptions. that's a detour, not a solution. it is time to reduce the strict protection of wolves and the habitats directive. the wolf no longer belongs in annex iv and as long as that is not regulated, i call on the member states to at least actively use the derogation in article 16 so that problem wolves can still be tackled. because doing nothing is not an option.
madam president, mr vice-president timmermans, we all asked ourselves after cop 27 whether it was a good cop or a bad cop. it was probably a tough cop, and you know that better than anyone. all these sorts of encounters end with a bittersweet taste. there are shadows, which we have mentioned: the difficulty of maintaining the mitigation goals and ambitions; the continuing gap between the science, our goals and the national commitments that each country is contributing; and the difficulty of continuing this commitment to medium- and low-carbon and the elimination of fossil fuels. but there are lights, and you have to highlight them. some of the highlights: the creation of the no losses damage fund, which is a huge achievement for climate justice, for support and help for the most vulnerable; and, among the highlights, there is also the role played by the european union, by frans timmermans, by the commission and its member states, looking for transactions, building bridges and looking for solutions. because we must remember that multilateralism is always very much in the european union's favour and we always know how to play our cards to find solutions.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i will try to answer some of the questions that were put on the table in my response here. so, when will we change our ndc? let’s – and i call upon all of you – finish as quickly as we can all the trilogues that are ongoing on fit for 55. once we’ve finish the trilogues, we can establish where these trilogues will take us in terms of our emission reductions. then we can update the ndc so that we can say we have put in our climate law a binding reduction of at least 55% by 2030 on the basis of all the results of our trilogues and the decisions we have taken. we can now announce an x amount that we will reach. that would probably, most certainly already now, lead to a more ambitious ndc, but i have to state very clearly, we do not change our climate law. climate law remains as it is. we just put in the latest results, when we have them, of all the trilogues into our ndc, and that will certainly lead to a more ambitious ndc. so, how do we limit the exploration of fossil fuels was another question. i think by speeding up the implementation, by reducing demand, which is something sadly we speak about not enough. we should be making a much, much bigger case for the reduction of energy consumption. secondly, by speeding up our transition to renewables, not just in europe, but especially helping developing countries choose renewables before they choose especially the most polluting fossil fuels. for that, they need the possibility to invest. we need to change the way the mdbs function; we need to share technology more; we need to create industrial ecosystems that will allow the developing countries to be part of that. then, obviously, it is a much better proposition to invest in renewables than to keep investing in fossil fuels. having said all that, it is without any doubt that i have to say that natural gas in particular will play a role in the transition towards climate neutrality – it plays that role in europe. we cannot deny others use of that natural gas as a transitional energy carrier if we’re doing that ourselves; that would be highly hypocritical. in that dialogue, the introduction of green hydrogen plays a huge role in all of this. this could also help us limit the exploration of fossil fuels. with a number of african countries, you see that this is working. but then we have to get our homework done on all the other issues that i just mentioned. this leads to alliances with the global south. i think the global south really welcomed the eu’s position on the loss and damage fund. but now we have to prove that we mean business. that’s what we have to do from now on in the weeks and months that follow. the attitude of the global south, especially small island developing states and african countries, they were surprised and actually intrigued and they wanted us to move forward with them. but we have to prove that we can actually do that. i would say, on the whole scope, not just on the fund, but also how we share technology, how we help them introduce renewables, etc., that it is very important for us to do. now, i will be travelling to dubai early next year, in the first weeks of the new year, to discuss the preparation of the next cop. high on my list will be space for civil society. this is of extreme importance to make very clear to the incoming presidency and to the un system, by the way, that space for civil society is going to be an essential element, a crucial element in how the cop should function. the uniqueness of the cop, to a large extent, is because of the participation of civil society, and this should never be lost. by the way, i will also then bring up the issue of the blue cop with the emirates and see what their plans are, and i certainly would like to continue to work with them on that. is china beneficiary of the loss and damage fund? well, no, of course not. that’s the whole idea behind the proposal the eu made. it should be directed at the most vulnerable and the contribution should come from the richest country, the countries doing well and also the major emitters. now, even if you look at historic emissions, and i say this to those who talk about history, china is right up there with the major emitters. even if you just look at historic emissions, because of the enormous amounts of their emissions. so there is no way that china can keep hiding behind the status of a developing country. this is something that is dawning also on the g77, this idea that there’s for all eternity going to be g77 plus china is no longer a given anymore. part of our diplomacy is also directed at creating alliances with the global south, but also at calling china to take more of its responsibility. by the way, china is suffering a lot from the climate crisis and is investing massively in renewables and in other areas. so who knows? they might surprise us, but we will have to continue this dialogue very intensively to make sure they peak out well before 2030, because otherwise, attaining 1.5 is going to be almost impossible, if not impossible. now, climate is not an ideology. climate policy is based on science. i would argue the opposite: neglecting the science has become an ideology, right up to the flat—earthers. so if you want to talk about ideology, then talk about that ideology. we are led by science and the scientific evidence is overwhelming. we would be amiss, we would neglect our duty as politicians in this time and age, if we did not act upon science. what world would we then give to our children and grandchildren if we had just neglected science? i think that would be the real, horrible ideology. now, on the issue of the markets, yes, there are many things you can say about the market and where it doesn’t function. but you cannot decarbonise our economy without putting a price on carbon. the one instrument that has worked extremely well and is being copied, by the way, by other parts of the world is the european emissions trading scheme, which has used market elements to put a price on carbon and created a market that is working better and better to decarbonise our economy and to give certainty to economic actors in the long term. so don’t dismiss the market outright, then you’re also in the domain of ideology. i would also like to take issue with those who said europe didn’t pay up. if you look at the adaptation fund, if you look at the usd 100 billion, europe did pay up; we did do our part. we have not been able to convince others to do their part. there’s still a lot of work to do there, but i don’t think europe should blame itself for not doing its part. with the usd 27 billion we have contributed, we do more than our fair share for that. i am more than willing to defend doing more, but we should also step up our efforts to convince the americans, the chinese and others to take more of their responsibility, and to convince some of the gulf states, which are still saying they are developing countries, to do more in that area. so let’s continue to work on that. all in all, madam president, there is a lot of work to do. i share partly the disappointment of this house in terms of what we did, what we couldn’t achieve on emissions. i do want to insist on the peaking out. i do want to insist on the end, on the phasing out, of fossil fuels – things we need to work on. but i do say that europe has given the example by having a plan, by being concrete on where we want to go, and in that way we can perhaps convince more and more other developed countries in the global north to do the same. we saw it with many countries in the global north that are following our example. now, in the alliance, we could forge ahead with the most vulnerable countries in the global south. we can also demonstrate that we mean business to make sure that those who are most vulnerable, who have no responsibility for where we are now, but are suffering in such a way that they cannot afford to address, should see help coming from us, support coming from us, and the understanding that we’re in this together.
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. for two weeks, political actors and intergovernmental organisations have been trying to find solutions to one of the most pressing contemporary problems - global warming. the european union has said it will support one of the most difficult items on the agenda, the financing of countries affected by climate-related disasters. the first is the financial, technological and capacity-building assistance that the most vulnerable countries need to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to the unavoidable effects of climate change. concrete partnerships are needed to mitigate climate change and more solidarity with the countries most affected. but at the same time, this transition must take account of the realities of today. decisions must be grounded in reality, without affecting production capacity or jobs. in other words, a just transition is needed.
the next item is the report by mrs isabel carvalhais, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the long-term vision for rural europe (2021/2254 (ini)) (a9-0269/2022).
rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i see rural areas as crucial in responding to the major societal challenges we face, particularly in these difficult times, with the ongoing war in ukraine by russia and the consequences of the pandemic. the future of rural areas, which cover 80% of the european union's territory, is more important than ever for europe's food security and the success of the european green deal. but more than that, it is above all the ethical and political imperative that men, women, children, young people, the elderly, in short, all people living in the rural world, have the same conditions as any other citizen of the european union to be able to make full use of their citizenship. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must do much more and do it better, because what we have seen is more than insufficient. i have said here on other occasions that the european commission's communication on the long-term vision for rural areas in the european union is very welcome, but i cannot help but regret that its presentation has been so late, precisely at an advanced stage in the programming of the main instruments of the multiannual financial framework, in particular those linked to cohesion policy and agricultural policy for rural development. i also regret the lack of explicit concrete targets to be achieved. the rural pact, the rural proofing mechanism, the rural observatory and the action plan are all very positive initiatives, but they must now be put into practice with clear targets for implementation. more immediate action is also needed now, because rural areas, ladies and gentlemen, cannot wait. the commission should ensure from the outset that the rural territorial dimension is duly taken into account in the design of the legislative action and should assess annually its implementation and impact in the cap strategic plans, cohesion policy programmes and recovery and resilience plans. in parallel, all eu policies and funds, whether under shared or direct management, should be called upon to contribute to the development of rural areas. the commission should also adopt legislative and non-legislative measures to improve the effectiveness of current policies, for example by working to remove the remaining obstacles to the multi-fund approach and by helping to develop more inclusive approaches in rural areas, as well as by improving synergies and coordination between european union funding instruments and between them and national instruments. we also call for the rapid adoption of legislative measures allowing, for example, the extension of the main fund approach to interventions co-financed by more than one fund of shared management and the simplification of its application, as well as the possibility of transferring financial resources between all funds of shared management when, and only when, it is aimed at the implementation of concrete rural territorial strategies, something which is not possible at the moment. at the same time, member states should also address the specific challenges of their rural areas during the implementation of the current programmes under the multiannual financial framework. in particular, they should make available the investments needed for social inclusion, job creation, promotion of the competitiveness of the rural economy and stimulation of a truly fair digital and green transition. they should also promote the principle of partnership, overcoming the resistance that still exists at this level, and the stronger involvement of local actors in building solutions adapted to their communities. this is also the time to start thinking about the next programming period and about creating a context that ensures prosperity and well-being for our rural communities. the long-term vision for rural areas should evolve into a genuine rural strategy at european union level, including all the different policies relevant to its implementation, so that it can be fully integrated into future programming periods. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the moment to send a clear and consistent message to rural areas throughout europe that we want to be an active part in defending their communities and in revitalizing their territories, that we are genuinely committed not just to proclaim it, but actually to do it.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! rural areas account for as much as 30% of the community's population, but unfortunately they still face many problems. lack of access to basic services, road connections and adequate communication, digital exclusion, and limited access to education are just some of them. they also lead to another very dangerous phenomenon, the depopulation of rural areas. to tackle these problems, we need a clear strategy and coherent action at the european union level. and i would urge everyone to change the paradigm of thinking about supporting rural areas, because we have been, for the last years, for many years, constantly taking action and thinking about how to keep people in these rural areas. and i think we need to change the whole way we think about it and think about how to get at least one person to come back to these rural areas, or get new people to want to live in these rural areas. because one person who is persuaded to go back to the countryside is worth ten people who want to stay. and that will be the best proof that our policies are working and succeeding. so courage in thought.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i want to thank honourable member, isabel carvalhais. your work, and that of the co-rapporteurs and members of this house demonstrates the importance of the long-term vision and the added value of the rural pact. your report welcomes the rural vision as a valuable opportunity for coordinated and reinforced actions on rural areas. the commission is committed to ensuring that rural areas remain high on the european union’s political agenda. both commission and parliament are aligned on the challenges and opportunities that rural areas face in the green and digital transitions. without forgetting that there is another crucial transition underway, the demographic transition, that perhaps is more gradual but no less significant in the long run. the purpose of this vision is to make rural areas more prosperous, better connected, more dynamic, more attractive places for people to live and work in, while preserving their essential character. food security is a key concern right now. linked to this is the issue of food waste. it is the first topic for deliberation in the new generation of european citizens panels inspired by the conference on the future of europe. the climate and biodiversity crisis and our food security objectives all remind us how vital rural areas and farmers are to our food security. essentially, they help guarantee an economically, ecologically and socially sustainable production. i welcome your clear messages on the need to improve the basic services and to address the growing discontent among rural populations. this is key to our economy, our society and our democracy. we must continue the dialogue within the rural pact framework on how to improve the representation of rural people at all levels of governance. i understand your concerns when it comes to ensuring european union funds and policies complement one another in their bid to support rural areas in the years to come. i welcome the points on article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. we will thoroughly study the rapporteur’s proposal on the synergies and multi-fund approach. there is a common understanding on the need for improvement. we will also carefully analyse your proposal for the future beyond 2027. around eur 100 billion from the european agricultural fund for the rural development budget were made available to fund the rural development programmes in the 2014-2020 period. in cohesion policy, eur 33 billion for plans for investments in rural areas. the commission works to ensure positive outcomes for rural areas in both the cohesion policy operational programmes and the common agricultural policy strategic plans in the programming exercise for 2021-2027. by mid-2023 we will take stock of how they have been programmed for this new period, and in early 2024 we will issue a report on enhanced support to rural areas in the future based on the implementation of the european union rural action plan. over the last year and a half we have made significant progress on the 30 actions in the plan. these cover many aspects highlighted in your report. we will propose a set of indicators to follow up the plan and envision implementation by mid-2023. then we will also take stock of what actions have been carried out and programmed, as i already mentioned. on rural proofing, we started to pilot our rural proofing mechanism with some promising results. i give you the example of the european care strategy and the new urban mobility framework. we are also on track to deliver the first products of the toolkit for european union funds for rural areas. this tool will inspire local authorities and stakeholders to make use of the european union funding and capacity building opportunities. we also welcome your support for the eu rural observatory, which went live on 8 december. this is a major milestone. i want to mention the rural package because european parliament is a key partner in this process. indeed, our shared goals of the vision can only be achieved together. you call on the commission to maintain a direct and structured dialogue with the various levels of governance. this is the very objective of the rural pact and it has the ambition to gather all actors playing a role for the rural areas. since last year, 1200 people have joined the rural pact community and close to 80 have submitted commitments to act. to conclude, i look forward to the exchange this evening and to the plenary vote on the report that member of parliament isabel carvalhais has championed and to continuing the fruitful collaboration with the honourable members of this house on making the rural vision a reality, leaving no one and nowhere behind.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, i am pleased that we can now discuss the long-term vision for rural development. the vision that we are actually rounding off the goals that we have all written down since 2016 in the concept of smart villages is to solve the problem of depopulation, on the one hand, the departure of young people from the countryside, on the other hand, the aging of people. the commission will also continue to support the development of the rural economy, including the development of the rural economy, and the development of the rural economy, including the provision of all necessary infrastructure, including broadband connections, which have proven to be indispensable in rural areas, especially in the context of covid, in order to provide opportunities for new jobs and, at the same time, a quality of life. agriculture is the main activity. new approaches are needed in the context of precision farming. agriculture has proven resilient even in the face of covid. on the other hand, we need to add to agriculture tourism, the energy sector, care for the elderly, e-health in rural areas, and in this way we will do what we want to do to strengthen rural areas. we therefore need to ensure funding from a variety of sources. this must be addressed at all levels, from local to european. but it must certainly become a common policy in the future, because without rural development policy, rural areas will suffer the same problems as in the past. rural development must become a public policy.
i would like to thank mrs carvalhais and all the other rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. the proof is that there is not a single amendment, because a great deal of effort and work has been done. i'm very happy for you. now we need commitments. there are the agreements, there is this brilliant report and now we need commitments. we need a firm commitment from the european union to tackle the generational, digital and gender gaps in rural europe. ladies and gentlemen, 83% of the land is occupied by only 30% of the population. although we have been pursuing rural development policies for more than three decades, they have not produced the desired results. so despite these more than 30 years, new measures must be taken and a comprehensive approach to policies at the level of the european union must be adopted. farms have also declined by 35% in the last two decades, and that has also had its impact. there is growing discontent among the rural population with the policy. because you don't take this policy seriously. it is sometimes done with too sectoral a view, from agriculture. rural areas need a holistic and horizontal approach, not a sectoral one. and so, until we have this clear, we will not address what these rural areas need: equal access to services and guaranteed living conditions. people want to choose where they live, but with the same conditions in urban areas or in rural areas. i would also like to congratulate the groups that have participated in the leader initiative, which have done a great job over the last 30 years. commissioner, it's time to act. let us all join together and make a comprehensive policy to prevent this rural depopulation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, indeed, we have to face reality. we have rural areas where families leave the rural areas because there’s a lack of public transport, there’s a lack of internet connectivity to work from home, there’s a lack of kindergartens, there’s a lack of schools, there’s a lack of retailers. and we see less and less public officers or police stations. there are more and more farmers actually closing their businesses: hundreds every day. and it’s mainly small and medium-sized farmers – the ones that mainly produce ecological, viable food – who mainly drive a kind of agriculture that fits with biodiversity and climate. these farmers are leaving rural areas in big numbers and they are the ones providing us with the daily food that we need. so clearly we don’t need just a vision or a plan or a long-term vision. we need concrete action so as not to treat citizens in rural areas as second-class citizens in our european union. but i call on my conservative colleagues again: we stand together in this report and we stand together in these claims. but once again you have inserted your shoot-the-wolf paragraph, or reduce the, yes, protection status. and with this once again, like last time when we had the six-party agreement, you are doing your best to split the majority here in parliament. and you know that an ini report will only be powerful if it’s shared by a big majority here. so please withdraw that article so we can all stand together, because the wolf clearly is not responsible for the failures of many of your colleagues in the last decades when it comes to rural areas. so let’s fix that and let’s have a big majority in favour of this wonderful report, thanks to madam carvalhais.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and her counter-rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation in a spirit of compromise and a common understanding of the interests of rural areas. that is why this report is unamended and will probably be adopted in its entirety by a large majority in this chamber. as a representative of the ecr group, my priority was to emphasise in the strategy that the primary role of rural areas is an agricultural economy geared to food production and that this production must be profitable for farmers and provide a decent living for them and their families. any strategy will be useless if the work on the land is not economically attractive, especially for the young generation who today flee from the countryside to the city in search of a better life for themselves. our report does indeed make a good diagnosis of this situation, pointing out that 3 million farms have disappeared in europe over the last ten years. unfortunately, this process is still going on, albeit at a slower pace. it is also worth noting that rural development, and in particular the construction of social and technical infrastructure, should be financed by the cohesion fund. it hasn't been like that before. the money that has been so hard earned for the common agricultural policy, particularly under the second pillar, has very often been used for infrastructure, whereas it should be used to support farms, to modernise them and to increase agricultural production. since the commission's communication and the report were largely in the pre-war period, it was the war in ukraine and russia's hybrid warfare that demonstrated the importance of food security. i would therefore like to thank commissioner wojciechowski for the urgent measures that he has taken to strengthen food security, such as suspending land clearance or opposing the proposal to reduce pesticide use by 50% for all member states, which is a pointless solution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. rural areas are habitats for people. and those people who live there have every right to a quality of life that may be different from the cities, but it cannot be worse. people in rural areas have the right to health care, they have the right to safe roads, to public transport, to high-speed internet, to childcare, to schools, to nursing homes and much more. people in rural areas also have the right and probably the duty to run a business. it is only when there are farmers and smes in rural areas that there are jobs. and without jobs, there are no families in rural areas. so it has to stop people from cities telling people in rural areas what they can and cannot do every day. rural areas do not need the cheesy bells of other people's decisions, which often stifle any entrepreneurial idea. it is also good that we are addressing the situation with the big predators in the context of this report. many people pay homage to a completely misunderstood idea of biodiversity and accept or even welcome the fact that wolves and bears roam through our villages and prey on livestock. we need answers here, too. if the text is adopted tomorrow as we have prepared it in committee, that will be an answer. rural areas remain vital if people are willing and given the chance to shape them. i hope this report is a good step in that direction.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our rural areas are custodians of traditions, of culture and of skills, and they are one of the founding nuclei of european society. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. however, for these commitments to translate into concrete action, a change of pace in the union's policies for the development of inland areas is needed, accompanied by greater support for increasingly socially, environmentally and economically sustainable agriculture. we are working to strengthen all the instruments, such as geographical indications, which are essential for the development and social cohesion of our rural areas. at the same time we will oppose measures such as the emissions directive which endanger animal husbandry, even though it involves pastures of high environmental value and endangered breeds, providing income and vitality in remote and mountainous areas. commissioner, we need better coordination between cohesion policies, the common agricultural policy, nextgenerationeu and all the tools needed to turn our rural strategy into a success story for rural development, with more prosperous, resilient and integrated territories.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report before us today makes the right point: rural areas are in a worrying decline; they are being deserted by public services and neglected by the younger generations. as a symptom of this decline, the expected loss of 62% of farms by 2040 is dramatic, as it is a direct threat to our food self-sufficiency. the solutions proposed to us reflect an unfortunately ideological view of the problem. the report aims to develop new sources of income for rural areas, including the production of renewable energy. i believe it is our duty to protect the unparalleled wealth of our agricultural heritage before we disperse into risky energy policies. it then seeks to bring the countryside under the assault of the green deal for europe and its 'farm to fork' strategy. i challenge this goal of agricultural degrowth, because it leads us to an economic and environmental impasse. finally, it responds to demographic desertification by protecting the rights of migrants in rural areas. the committee also welcomed the fact that the commission had already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's agricultural policy was not distorted by the eu's trade policy. the commission has announced that it will double chicken imports from chile, in addition to the concessions currently being negotiated with mexico and mercosur. agriculture is no longer a variable for adjusting european policies; she's become a martyr to it. the revitalization of rural areas will not be achieved by another european control body, which will decide for the member states, let alone by an intensification of brussels' free trade policy. the solution is above all agricultural. let us not lose sight of the real issue: trusting our farmers to meet the challenges ahead and finally provide them with a decent income.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the importance of a strong and resilient rural area. a long-term perspective for farmers is very much needed. the report points to a worrying development, namely the growing gap between urban and rural areas. i see, however, another gap, namely the gap between policy makers and farmers. government policy that is sometimes miles from reality. we saw a clear expression of this in my own country, the netherlands, with mass demonstrations of farmers and flags upside down. the policy of the dutch government is putting the future of thousands of farms at risk, with all the consequences of this, including for the liveability of the countryside. how do we fix this? i see a lot of the future in the rapporteur's proposal to subject new rules to a rural test. this can prevent new crisis situations arising from ill-considered policies. i see only one solution to the nitrogen crisis in the netherlands: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. what is needed is a long-term perspective and certainty. the certainty that the farming enterprise, which has often been handed down from generation to generation, can continue to exist. security to make the investments necessary for a sustainable future. because one thing is certain: as long as there are farmers, there is food and there is life in the countryside. let us appreciate its value in time.
president, commissioner vălean, more and more flights in europe are being cancelled because of staff shortages. ground staff are having a tough time, but it's going to be a lot worse. some airlines also push crew members and pilots to the limit, right into the cockpit. the european pilots' union and the european transport union have received reports of concern and have identified serious fatigue among pilots and cabin crew, in particular from one airline. these signals have of course been shared with easa, the european union aviation safety agency, the supervisory body on behalf of the european commission. but when asked, they do not give any opinion on how they handle these complaints and whether they investigate these complaints. they shall refer the matter back to the european commission. and when the press asks the commission, the commission says it is not aware of any complaints. the classic "from the closet to the wall" but a very dangerous one. this is about air safety. i therefore wrote to the commission asking for clarification on this matter. but i have not heard from the commission either. and that's why i'm asking you again here. does the european union aviation safety agency report directly to the commission on complaints of pilot fatigue? if so, can you confirm that the complaints in question are being thoroughly investigated and that you will take action if necessary?
madam commissioner, at a time in which we are blackmailed through our dependence on an autocratic third country on energy, we have to make sure that this will not happen again in the future. unfortunately, the reality is different, because if we look at the recent decision of the german government to accept the chinese investment in the port of hamburg, we see that we are facilitating this chinese influence on european soil in european ports. there are at least 22 european ports currently where there is chinese influence, and this influence over the european ports is problematic because it has the potential to undermine our security, the economic independence and resilience of the union. now the ports themselves they point to each other if you ask them why they accept these investments; they say we need to do it, if we do not accept them, our competitor in another european country will. we played against each other in a time where we should stand side by side. and my question to the commissioner is how do we make sure that our ports remain competitive without being dependent on foreign investment?
thank you, commissioner, for the answer but for the epp, this is not enough. i would really call for the european commission to come forward with a european port strategy. we really need to stop the sell-out of our european ports; national intelligence services have already been warning about the risk of espionage, of sabotage, of economic dependence. but definitely for the future, we should stop making sure that the chinese government has control points in our critical infrastructure. and we would really like to ask the commission to come forward with a specific strategy for european ports.
mr president, austria's vote was not only against romania and bulgaria joining the schengen area, it was a vote against the unity of the european union, calling into question the very functioning of the european institutions. karl nehammer, you know very well that romania is not responsible for the presence of the 75 000 migrants in austria. unfortunately, honesty, fairness and integrity are not the things that define you. but remember that lies can't build anything lasting. you cannot say at the salzburg forum in november this year that you support romania's accession to the schengen area and then a few days later do the exact opposite. mr chancellor, putin and russia certainly thank you today, but remember that history will judge you tomorrow, because with this vote you have started a process of destroying the european project which for over 70 years has guaranteed peace and stability in europe. i say to the heads of state and government that you have a moral obligation to defend the european project immediately, and that means romania and bulgaria in the schengen area.
mr president, commissioner, both you and minister balaš have stated that the external borders of romania and bulgaria are secure. thank you also for the commitment that you've made here that you will solve this problem, you will correct this wrong decision during 2023. i've heard these things for a long time. i wish you success in your talks with the netherlands and austria. until then, however, the negative consequences, especially economic ones, will continue. you also said that the abolition of internal borders would strengthen external borders, because workers would be transferred across those borders. so i ask you what is your opinion if romania and bulgaria create a smaller free movement area, not schengen, vidin-calafat or giurgiu-ruse?
mr president, i was a trainee in the european parliament before i became a member, and as such the first thing i learned is that here anyone can become anything, because people are treated equally, no matter where they come from. for the first time, i'm hesitant about this, mainly because of the behaviour of the dutch government. the very fact that there's a debate about whether bulgaria and romania should join schengen is insulting. bulgaria and romania not only have the right to enter schengen, but the european union has the obligation to admit bulgaria and romania to schengen. imagine if tomorrow both countries ceased to fulfil their obligations as members, as the netherlands is doing now. if, say, they stop paying their membership dues to the european budget, in this room of 705 people, there will be 1,705 people protesting. and i want to tell you that those who are currently feeding the monster of european scepticism will be the first to be driven out. bulgaria and romania will teach a lesson to those who created the european union, because it will not give up on our path to europe and will not break us. you will see in the next elections that the pro-european parties will win despite the unfair treatment.
member of the commission. – mr president, when, not if, bulgaria and romania join schengen, we all win. more trade, travel, tourism, a boost for the internal market. we will all be safer, with full use of the information system, better police cooperation and information exchange. border guards now checking passports at borders between member states will go to protect the eu external borders. if bulgaria and romania’s accession are further delayed, we all lose. as i said already in my introductory remarks, i am the first to say that we have significant challenges in the eu on security, on irregular migration, on rule of law. but we should not confuse these challenges, that we need to address together, with the schengen enlargement criteria. on the contrary, we need romania and bulgaria in schengen to better address these challenges. and to sum up what was mentioned in the debate, let me clarify – it’s the commission that has signed a frontex agreement with north macedonia. it’s the commission that is now renegotiating the frontex agreement with four other western balkan partners. it is the commission, together with the czech presidency, that at the eu western balkan ministerial that we had in the beginning of november in tirana, reached an unprecedented agreement with all the western balkan partners to align their visa policies. and we already see the deliverables from serbia, from albania and north macedonia and expect more to come. we also there launched a new anti-smuggling operational partnership with the six western balkan partners, underpinned with eur 30 million. it was the commission that presented one week ago the action plan to counter the irregular arrivals on the western balkan routes. so, we are doing a lot from the commission side and we also see actually a slight decrease in the arrivals all along the western balkan routes. but of course more needs to be done. i regret the council decision last thursday. it shows that we are divided, are fractured, at a time when we need unity and solidarity. and the only winner is putin, who is actively stoking unrest and division into our union. and for what? there is no point in delay. bulgaria and romania are entitled to join once all criteria are met and they have been met. so the commission said in 2011, and we just confirmed a few weeks ago in our schengen communication, and so say two fact-finding missions this year. commitments must be honoured. the time is right. we must rally together and admit bulgaria and romania into schengen. i am determined to make this happen, already next year. the citizens of romania and bulgaria deserve it. and it will make us all stronger together, united. thank you for your strong support.
president—in—office of the council. – mr president, honourable members of parliament, madam commissioner, thank you for the views expressed today. as i said, the council under the czech leadership has made all efforts to achieve the well—deserved full accession of bulgaria, croatia and romania into the schengen area. i am sure the council remains committed to working on this matter. and the work will continue under the next presidency building on the efforts carried out during this semester in an open and constructive manner with a view to reaching a unanimous decision on the full application of the schengen acquis in bulgaria and romania as a matter of priority. we shouldn’t adopt decisions that disrupt confidence in the eu, and we shouldn’t adopt decisions that disrupt our unity. and i can just subscribe to the words of madam commissioner: only united we stand strong.
that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the decision that romania and bulgaria cannot join the schengen area is unacceptable. both member states have fulfilled the necessary conditions for more than 10 years, but two western member states - austria and the netherlands - have vetoed their accession. the decision of austria and the netherlands is gravely unfair and unjust to all romanian and bulgarian citizens, to all communities living in their territories. the right to free movement within the schengen area is a right of all european citizens and should not be denied for political reasons. it is hypocritical and outrageous that those who usually worry about european unity are now deeply silent. it's a blatant double standard that if a central european country uses its veto, it's being reprimanded, but if a western european country does the same, that's fine. it is also very cynical that western member states are now suddenly referring to illegal migration and border protection, while hungary has been attacked for ideological reasons for years for building a border fence. romania and bulgaria have done a lot to protect their borders and curb illegal migration and are ready to join. i ask the two member states to reconsider the matter and decide to include romania and bulgaria in schengen as soon as possible.
in writing. the austrian federal government's rejection of the schengen accession of romania and bulgaria is not only shocking to the people of the two countries, but has left a shock across the union and beyond. people from romania, bulgaria and austria are not only connected by the danube, but also by a long common history that reaches back to our everyday lives. they are an elementary part of the austrian working environment, just as the presence of austrian companies is part of everyday life in romania and bulgaria. i would like to congratulate croatia on its accession to schengen and the euro, but we must finally ensure that all citizens in the european union have the same rights. romania and bulgaria are an essential part of this union and should therefore also be part of the schengen area. there should be no discrimination within the schengen area. the eu commission has clearly confirmed that all the conditions for romania and bulgaria to join schengen are met. the border security in romania and bulgaria is in line with schengen standards. at the same time, however, it must be ensured that there are no human rights violations at the borders, as has been the case in the past. the member states are called upon to take monitoring measures to ensure that fundamental rights are respected and that there are no illegal pushbacks.
in writing. last week, the interior ministers gave the green light for croatia to join schengen. her journey to the zone without internal border controls was express. this path is much more complicated for romania and bulgaria. the commission proposed their entry into schengen as early as 2011, and the european parliament approved their entry. but romania and bulgaria are still in the schengen waiting room, even after more than 11 years. although the czech presidency made efforts to lift the blockade for them as well, austria and the netherlands ultimately insisted on their detention, allegedly due to ineffective migration control and ineffective fight against corruption. but the austrian veto is a gross abuse of the domestic political situation to gain cheap points. in this context, we cannot avoid the frontex data that the balkan route has illegally brought more than twice as many people into the union this year as in 2021, also via croatia. bulgaria and romania, however, have no choice in the matter of schengen, as the uk, for example, did. they have to enforce all the laws, invest in all the new technology, but they don't get the benefits of schengen. the austrian veto is a dangerous counter to the european position, which could have serious consequences. we must urgently oppose this.
the next item is the debate on the commission communication on the prospects for a two-state solution for israel and palestine (2022/2949 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, this has been another difficult year with more than 120 palestinians killed. year 2022 is the deadliest for palestinians in the west bank since the united nations started systematically counting fatalities in 2005, when measured on a monthly average. it is also the deadliest year for palestinian children in the west bank in 15 years, with 34 children killed by israeli forces or settlers, with an overall record high settler violence. we witnessed a wave of terror attacks across israel, with more than 20 casualties, as reported by the un’s ocha. this was followed by more israeli military operations and incursions in palestinian cities. we also witnessed another violent escalation in gaza in august with the palestinian islamic jihad. we therefore call on the parties to exercise restraint and to do everything to prevent further escalation and to rebuild a path towards dialogue. any use of force must be proportionate and in line with international law. the eu, of course, condemns all acts of terrorism in the strictest terms. against this difficult background, the prospects for a resumption of genuine negotiations conducive to ending the occupation and achieving the two-state solution appear very distant. there is nonetheless no credible alternative. the two-state solution remains the best way of bringing lasting peace, stability and equal rights to both peoples. therefore, the eu is actively engaging with our partners in the middle east, the us and beyond, to explore ways to revive the peace process. in september, during the unga high-level week in new york, we hosted a ministerial round table marking the 20th anniversary of the arab peace initiative. importantly, the event was co-sponsored by the league of arab states and saudi arabia. in this vein, the eu special representative for the mepp, sven koopmans, will continue working with all our international partners to reopen a path towards a comprehensive regional peace. in light of israel’s recent normalisation agreements with four arab states, which the eu supports, we are exploring possibilities to use these new contacts to increase momentum to the benefit of the middle east peace process too. in october, hr/vp borrell co-chaired with israeli prime minister lapid, the eu-israel association council. at this meeting, the first in a decade, the eu and member states discussed with israel how to develop strategic bilateral cooperation, but also passed a strong message on the eu’s commitment to a two-state solution and the need to reopen a political horizon. hr/vp borrell was clear that unilateral actions such as continuing settlement expansion and demolitions must stop in order to preserve the chances of a just and viable peace. this will also be our message to the incoming israeli government, which we hope will confirm the country’s full commitment to the shared values of democracy and rule of law, and with which we hope to engage in serious conversation on the conflict and the need to reopen the political horizon for the palestinian population. the eu is now also strengthening our dialogue further with the palestinian authority. hr/vp borrell has invited the palestinian foreign minister, riyad al-maliki, to the foreign affairs council in january. it will be an opportunity to exchange on how the eu can best support the palestinian authority and the peace process, but also to discuss the necessity of organising the postponed national palestinian elections and take steps forward towards palestinian unity.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i called the resolution we are discussing today the ‘as if’ resolution. we are doing it as if israel were not the strongest rule—of—law state and the only democracy in the middle east. we are doing it as if israel were our strong partner in terms of security, our own security, but also in other fields like innovation, economy and many other fields. we are doing it as if there were not more urgent problems on this planet, especially for europe, like the war of aggression from putin’s russia, inflation, the energy crisis, or on a geopolitical level, what’s happening in the pacific and elsewhere. we are doing it as if it were a recent development that would justify such a resolution. that’s not the case, actually, but i negotiated on it since it’s on the table. this is a parliamentary process, and i’m happy that we could at least include the main precondition for the language providing the title for this very resolution. this precondition is a security guarantee for israel from those who are threatening israel, who are attacking civilians in israel, and who have been attacking them for decades and are still doing so. frankly, colleagues, it’s not very smart to align with the enemies of our friends, and in this case it’s also immoral to do so. so let us seek such a security guarantee. let us seek to fight terrorism. let us support those who fight terrorism in the first place, israel, in securing its own people. then we can achieve a true peace – a sustainable peace. this might also be the purpose of this very resolution.
mr president, we are putting forward a resolution here today in the european parliament because we are concerned and concerned about the conflict between israel and palestine. we are concerned that tension has increased in recent years and that violence is being perpetrated by both sides. at the same time, we believe that after five years without a resolution from the european parliament on the conflict, this was the moment. i am also glad that the commission has taken the initiative to make the necessary proposals to the council and parliament. the european position on the conflict is the need to provide security guarantees, obviously on both sides, to israel, but at the same time to lay the foundations for a negotiated solution, which inexorably requires the creation of two viable, democratic states that live hand in hand. that's what the resolution does. at the same time, we also explain how settlements, settlement expansion, systematic demolitions and occupation not only violate public international law, but make a two-state solution impossible in practice. we also reiterate our support for a solution that goes beyond the 1967 borders, for the end of the blockade of the gaza strip and for the european union to claim the leading role, the leadership, with a peace conference, in order to help the coexistence, peace and security that israelis and palestinians deserve.
president. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have been negotiating for hours this morning. when we talk about israel and palestine, it's always a heated debate with a lot of emotion, i don't have to tell you that. i'd like to thank my shadow reporters very much. it was a very difficult, very heated debate, and we tried to come together to make a good resolution. we agree that the two-state solution is the only way forward. we believe, commissioner, that europe must play a part in this, must contribute to the two-state solution, however difficult the situation may be. that is why we are asking you very clearly - the commission - to launch a european peace initiative. organize an international conference to do this as a first step. make it clear to the next israeli government that the occupation of the palestinian territories must end. make it clear to the palestinian authority that they need to get their own house in order. and strongly condemn the violence on both sides. the year 2022 is the world and we know it has not become safer. but this conflict deserves our continued attention. that's our job. this parliament is counting on you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we know what the solution for a lasting peace between israel and palestine is: two sovereign states living in peace and security on the basis of the 1967 borders, and with jerusalem as the capital of both states. but we also know that we are far from this solution – the farthest we have been in a long time. the situation on the ground is explosive. illegal settlements proliferate, as well as demolitions and threats of evictions, such as in masafer yatta. the unacceptable reality of occupation becomes unbearable. attacks on israeli territory are back. the palestinian leadership is incapable of unity and renewal. the new israeli government will include far—right extremists threatening to formalise the annexation of the occupied territories, and the international community seems to get disengaged from the real end of the conflict. in such a context, we need, more than ever, political resolve from the eu. we need a european peace initiative, which is based on international law and un resolutions, and which envisages the end of the conflict as an absolute priority.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97) for a regulation amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0183 - c4-0179/97). would it ever come to that? and if so, how? the eu has thought it for decades: the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. but how realistic is that? there have been no serious peace talks for years. the palestinians are not the only ones who have been suffering from the violence of the war in the west bank. and meanwhile, the question is becoming more pressing. the european union has already given billions of euros in subsidies, but there is still no sign of a viable palestinian state. can he actually come? even if it is not a contiguous area. mr president, what does that mean for our lineup? i really think we need to take a step back. it is not for the european union to dictate to israel and the palestinians the outcome of their necessary peace negotiations. so it doesn't necessarily have to be a two-state solution. i would say, let's focus on fostering an environment that creates space for conversation, an environment of mutual respect. is it really too much to ask, commissioner, in this context, to make subsidies to the palestinian authority conditional on us wanting to see firm guarantees that our money does not go to terrorist organisations and is not used for school textbooks glorifying violence? i'd like a comment on that. peace in the middle east. would it ever come to that? i'm not giving up. the abraham accords between israel and a growing number of arab countries show that it can be done. but above all, i do not give up because i find surprising insights in the bible. when we pray for the peace of jerusalem, we pray with hope.
mr president, once again we are talking about energy and once again we are talking about the margins. it's going to be absolutely unbelievable for the people back home, the people who are in the cold, the people who can't pay the bill, the people who are forcing your climate ideology on you, which is why we have energy shortages now. instead of working for the welfare and safety of these people, the socialists here accept bribes from the biggest climate ideologues and hungarian bashers, including oil dollars from qatar! what irony . putting the onelove tape on with one hand, and putting the bribe in the pocket with the other. you should be ashamed of yourself. it is not self-interest that must be put first, but the interests of 450 million eu citizens. so, stop the ideology, stop the green deal. ensure that sufficient reliable and affordable energy can be produced within the eu. repowereu can only do so with more fossil and nuclear energy at the moment. i wish you all a merry christmas.
madam president, commissioner, minister, people in europe are suffering. they’re sitting in ice-cold rooms, are unable to feed their families and are increasingly at risk of becoming homeless. if we want to be a union that works for people, our response to the energy crisis has to go further than security of supply and the necessary reforms of the energy market. we need to take action for the people. and that’s why i call upon the european commission to use its competence to urgently present a proposal for emergency legislation that bans energy disconnections for everyone in europe this winter. but i also call upon you to ban home evictions this winter because our european goal to end homelessness by 2030 has never seemed further away. we need to take action to help people who can’t pay their rent, food or energy bills. we have to help them get through this winter. please show that you are here for the people and not just for businesses.
madam president, council, commissioner, the freedom and independence of journalists are strong indicators of the quality of democracy and the rule of law. and yet these safeguards are increasingly at risk in the eu. intimidation, slapp cases and surveillance are applied in notorious autocracies like poland and hungary, but just as well in other states, including greece. the commission has confirmed persistent attacks and threats against journalists in greece, and this repression has an intentional, chilling effect. reporters on push—backs and other human rights violations are specifically targeted. the greek policy of silencing media and civil society has created a hostile environment which is detrimental to the necessary checks and balances of an open society. impunity at the eu level has fuelled this development, and even with the long—awaited media freedom act, only enforcement of the rules can stop this repression in all our member states. so i urge the commission to take legal action, protect our democracies and fundamental freedoms, protect journalists.
